ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u1	I open the 15th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor as Secretaries of the sitting. Senator Mariusz Gromko, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, will lead the list of speakers in the Senate sitting room. Dear Senators, in connection with the epidemic, after consulting the Seniors' Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a formula, which will consist in the fact that the deliberations will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in the discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that this is Senator Mariusz Gromko in the sitting room and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor in room 217. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I ask whether all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, I have a question about your decision that the sitting is in a hybrid form because of the covid situation. The question is technical: do all senators who attend the sitting in remote mode stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland? The problem arose in the Seym when it was part of the senators or a few senators in the Seym... [[Messengers.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Members.]] Members, I'm sorry. ...she tried to vote or vote, being outside the borders of the Republic, which was clearly considered a violation of the law. Whether, therefore, all senators who vote remotely are staying on the territory of the Republic of Poland, or are outside its borders, e.g. In the United States or somewhere else? Because such unofficial information appears.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u3	Thank you, Senator. Let me remind you that there is no such condition in the Senate's Rules of Procedure. The Internet has to do with it that it doesn't recognise boundaries, and on my part, the answer to the question of where the senators are staying is: I don't know. What we are supposed to ensure is that we can connect online and take an active part in the meeting. At this stage, we're gonna take it this way, although I have to say And I share the view of many senators here. The main form is plenary and as soon as possible from an epidemiological point of view, it is the decision of the Seniors Convention... and I will recommend that we return to this form as soon as possible. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, one word...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u4	It is the duty of the Senator of the Republic of Poland to implement his mandate in the territory of the Republic of Poland, unless the Marshal decides that he represents the Senate, the High Chamber outside the country in the form of a business trip, participation in delegations, conferences. So I don't think anyone can carry out their mandate while sitting in the United States for weeks or months. So I'm thinking, Mr. Marshal. And this is your authority. That the Senate Bureau should address this issue in such a way as to, for example, propose such regulations that senators, if this is due to health reasons, epidemics, etc., vote only if they are in the Republic of Poland and not outside the country. Well, it can't be that someone's been out of bounds for months... [[The voice from the room: He shouldn't...]] ...and participates in votes, takes a diet, gets an allowance, etc., etc. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u5	To answer Mr. Senator briefly, I would say that I believe that no one at this moment, although, as I say, I don't know for sure, is staying out of the country for a long time. On the other hand, it would not be humane or elegant to take the right to vote with someone who is accompanied by a severely ill family member abroad. To conclude, Mr. Senator, if this is your position or the position of the Law and Justice Club... If the appropriate letter comes to me, we will give it a standard mode, it will pass through the rule committee, the bureau, etc., etc. Well, we're gonna follow our administrative procedures. If there are no further questions... Senator Chróścikowski. Although I'm reading these official formulas for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u6	As for the remote vote, I would like to point out that at the last sitting, when I wanted to vote, I could not vote because there was no sign for voting. I intervened several times. Unfortunately, it was impossible to work here, but the answer at the end was that it was your marshal's fault because Mr. Marshal didn't wait 20 seconds, but he immediately announced the results, and the result is that the board is not displayed to cast votes. I don't know if that's true, but the I.T. informs me that it's your Marshal's fault. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u7	Well, you know, I'm honored that the staff of the Senate are pointing to the Marshal's guilt, but I must enlighten the senator that I pay particular attention to those voting remotely. Well, I have 1 of these 3 screens here, and I'm making a formula, and I'm only asking for the results of the vote when the number appears on the remote voting screen. 0 because that means everyone voted. Sometimes... [[There should be such a big board...]] Well, it's not my fault anymore. [[I'm connected to the O.R.]] We're gonna figure this out, Senator. Thank you for your attention. If you don't mind, I'm gonna finish reading the formulas so I can get this thing over with. States participating in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphone yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind you of the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting, that the opening of the vote, so-called. polling in the Webex system causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, we click "OK" and then there is a need to press 2 buttons "Transmit" or "Submit" after the vote, in the voting window and in response to the question of confirming the voter's decision. Please give any vote only to confirm your presence. [[Voice from the room: Objection, objection.]] It's called annihilation. Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] At the moment, so many senators are attending the sitting. I inform that the Sejm, at its sixteenth meeting on 14 August 2020, has already submitted a decision of the Senate rejecting the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources; has adopted all the amendments of the Senate notified to the Act amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws, to the Law on the Money Provision to Persons sent or deported to the USSR in 1939 and 1956, to the Act on Liability for Violation of the Provisions of the Regulation on Mutual Recognition of Goods which were lawfully marketed in another Member State and to the designation of the authority responsible for the Contact Point on Products; has rejected the Resolution of the Senate rejecting the Act on the amendment of the Act on Posting of Workers in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws; has adopted part of the amendments submitted by the Senate to the Act on Special Solutions for Support of Uniform Services supervised by the Minister responsible for Internal Affairs, on the amendment of the Law on Prison Service and some other laws, to the Act on the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic Law and some other laws, to the Act amending certain laws, to ensure the functioning of the Minister responsible for the Protection of Health in respect of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of 18 and of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Lithuania. In addition, the Sejm at the same meeting rejected the Senate resolution rejecting the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 11th, 12th and 13th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that on 22 July 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate of the functioning of social cooperatives operating under the Act of 27 April 2006 on social cooperatives for the period 2018 to 2019. It is contained in print No 175. The Senate Marshal sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I would like to inform you that the committee at its meeting on 9 September 2020 took note of the information. I would also like to inform you that on 29 June 2020, the President of the National Regional Council of the Courts of Auditors provided the Senate with a report on the activities of the Regional Courts of Auditors and the implementation of the budget by local government units in 2019. It is contained in print No 158. On 10 July 2020, the Senate Marshal sent a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Commission took note of the report at its meeting on 9 September. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. I propose to consider point one and point two of the agenda, although the committee's reports on these laws were submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Izbo, I inform you that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation during the review of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other acts, item one of the agenda, saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in Senate printing No 198. I ask all senators to be present at this item on the agenda, because we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of point four, i.e. the second reading of the draft law on the metropolitan union in Pomorskie voivodship, and considering it as the second point; and the sixth point, i.e. information from the Minister of Health on the availability of health services during the period of the outbreak of Coronavirus as well as the presentation of a strategy for health care activities during the autumn-winter period, and its consideration as the fourth point. Except that I have agreed with Minister Kraska that this point will be considered at the earliest at 3 p.m. So if the previous items go quickly, then I will also propose a slight shift on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: changes in the membership of the Senate Committee and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Marshal Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal motion to delete the fourth point, which Mr. Marshal spoke about just a moment ago, i.e. information by the Minister of Health on the availability of health services during the period of the outbreak of Coronavirus as well as the presentation of a strategy for health care in the autumn-winter period. The Senate has been creating such a tradition of interrogating ministers for some time... We use the word "interrogation" very consciously, because it is not information, it is interrogation. The Senators of the Civic Platform, in accordance with the assumption and will of President Donald Tusk, are jumping down the throats of the ministers and ministers. I will remind the marshal and the High House, also the Civic Platform, that the Senate does not have constitutional powers to control the government. I believe that such a meeting should possibly be held in committee and there should be such a discussion, not in plenary of the Senate. There's a new tradition being created... Remind me if there was ever a minister standing here from the Civic Platform. Never. There was no minister who would be interrogated the way you've been interrogating... There was no Minister Arłukowicz, there was no Minister Ewa Kopacz, there was not once at this speaker of Mr Donald Tusk. So I believe that this earlier tradition and earlier customs were in line with the Constitution's provisions, as well as with good manners. I formally request the deletion of point four.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u9	Thank you very much. In this case, I understand, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Are you objecting or...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u10	I, first of all, want to remind you of the marshal... [[Is this a formal conclusion?]] ...Karczewski... [[No, but the voice of objection. And the voice of opposition has the right to fall.]] [[About what?]] [[But according to the regulations, Mr. Marshal's first request...]] [[Yeah, I agree with that.]] I would like to express my objection to Mr. Marshal Karczewski's request. Allow me to justify it. Mr. Marshal... [[But I'd like to...]] ...you, as head of the club, made multiple points That's how it's formulated: government information or the minister's information about... And so many times in the previous period this information was passed on. I see nothing wrong with the fact that, in a time of pandemic, the Minister will tell us what is the situation with vaccines as well. Well, I'm having trouble buying vaccines. My friends don't either, although some people don't have that kind of problem. So I'd like to know what the situation is, if you can wait, if you can't wait... The pandemic continues and I believe that such information should be submitted by the Minister every now and then, at least once every six months.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u11	Thank you very much. We have two conclusions... [[About the rule book.]] There will be no discussion at this point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, because Marshal Karczewski referred to the rules...]] [[Senator Wind wanted to speak, too, but you wouldn't...]] How could I not? [[Maybe he'll take... I just want to say, Mr. Marshal, that art. 45...]] [[But there's no discussion at this point...]] Gentlemen, there's no... [[First motion...]] [[Senator Kazimierz Wind wanted to take the floor on the Rules of Procedure...]] [[Yes, and you...]] Do not create the atmosphere of polemics in relation to formal applications. Senator Wind, let me just remind you that this is not a Marshal's decision, because the agenda approves the Senior Convention and order by the same convention has been approved. There's a motion to delete this point, it's against... [[I just want to complete this counterclaim...]] [[Mr. Marshal, what can Mr. Borowski do for you?]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please... Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz... [[But there's no supplement.]] [[Senator Skurkiewicz...]] ...please don't make this difficult. [[But there's no follow-up mode. There's no mode...]] [[Mr. Marshal, what kind of...]] [[Senator Skurkiewicz somehow...]] [[This is irregular. Mr. Marshal Borowski can't speak at the moment because there's no follow-up.]] [[Senator Skurkiewicz is strangely aroused today. I really...]] Mr. Senator... [[You, Mr. Marshal...]] [[There's no complement mode.]] [[There isn't.]] Senator Skurkiewicz, don't make me... [[You know that, Senator.]] Sir... [[About the formal...]] [[There's no such thing.]] [[There it is, there it is.]] Gentlemen, gentlemen, excuse me. Mr Borowski has the right to speak on the agenda. And you, Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, do not force me to use the regulations and formally, Minister, to use the catalogue of comments, reminders and punishments, because I do not want to use it. [[Maybe it's worth it, Mr. Marshal, to treat one side and the other side equally. You assured me that you would be the marshal of all the senators, but it turns out that those were the burning hopes of the entire room.]] [[When did you say that?]] Thank you very much. Mr... [[Thank you...]] Mr. Marshal Borowski on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u12	Yes. Art. 45 of the Rules of Procedure state: The subject matter of the Senate's deliberations is, in particular, that of the Council of Ministers and the members of the Council of Ministers. So what are we talking about? This is not the first time you have raised this question, gentlemen. You just don't like the fact that the Senate is working as the House of Parliament should. [[And I don't like you taking the floor now when you shouldn't be speaking.]] But, sir, the question is whether I'm right or wrong, not whether I should or shouldn't... [[This stubbornness...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u13	Gentlemen... [[For you, Senator Skurkiewicz, I have nerbosol if he needs it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...as a human being... [[I know a friend of yours from Warsaw who took other drugs to calm down. Maybe you can talk to him.]] As a man... [[I'm checking your truthfulness: I'm asking for these nerbosol pills.]] Gentlemen... [[Do you have those pills? Here you go, you'll give it to me.]] Gentlemen, gentlemen... [[Well, you're not telling the truth.]] [[Because I'm not the one who should be taking nerbosol.]] ...as a gentle-hearted man, but in charge of these proceedings, I remind you that the Marshal is speaking. If someone takes the floor without the Marshal's permission, they will suffer the consequences, no matter which side of the room they'll be from. That's all there is to it. The agenda is closed. There is a request for deletion, there is a request against it. Let me remind you that order was approved by the Senior Convention. I'm calling a vote. Who is in favour of Mr. Marshal Karczewski's request to take this item off the agenda? Who's in favour? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And now it is, Mr. Senator Chróścikowski, those 20 seconds. If someone didn't vote, I see it here. 93 senators voted, 44 for, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The motion was not accepted. [[Mr. Marshal, I...]] About what, Senator? [[About formal applications.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u14	Mr. Marshal, since I had not been given the floor before, I would like to say two things. Firstly, so far there was a rule that if a formal application was made, it was a vote in favour, a vote against and we voted against. Today, this principle was broken by giving the floor to Senator Borowski. Second thing. I believe that it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to allow a vote against the proposal by Marshal Karczewski, because this would only be possible if the agenda was approved and that Marshal Karczewski requested that the item be removed from the approved agenda. Since the agenda was not approved, the original request was for the agenda to be adopted and the Marshal submitted a request against it. So it was the one you presented to the marshal, and he was against Mr. Karczewski. And that's where the procedure ends. And the next conclusions were completely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u15	Thank you very much, senator. I'll remind you of the article. Paragraph 48 (4) is replaced by the following: "On acceptance or rejection of a formal application, the Senate shall decide after hearing the applicant and possibly one opponent of the application.' I'm closing the story. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 15th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that in case of failure to submit legislative proposals to the draft law on the metropolitan union in the Pomeranian voivodship, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration, but if there are proposals, together with other votes, at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that the attendance of all senators attending the Senate meeting Both in the Senate Chamber and in the Senate Chamber No 217, are laid out at the entrance to the Senate Chamber. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 193 and the report of the Commission In print No 193 A. I would remind you that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 198. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on accession to second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Chapter 9 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to take the floor and to present the report of the committee on the bill under consideration and the request of the committee to take the legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! I have the honour to submit a report to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 August 2020 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. At the same time, the committee informs that, in the course of the work on this law, it has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law under consideration. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall submit a proposal for a legislative initiative and submit a draft law amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, together with the justification. This is Senate print No 198. The purpose of the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 August 2020 to amend the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, hereinafter referred to as "the Act', is to introduce into the legal system exceptional instruments supporting entrepreneurs and natural persons engaged in one of the tourism and entertainment professions to counteract the negative socio-economic effects of COVID-19. By amending the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, hereinafter referred to as the covidowa law, the Law provides, first of all, for an extension of the deadline for the submission of applications for compensation for the remuneration of workers referred to in Article. 15g and Article 15g 15gg covidowej law; the right of the organiser of the tourism to apply for payment to the traveller of the money paid by that traveller to the organiser of the tourism event against the tourist event in the event of withdrawal from the agreement for participation in a tourist event or termination of that agreement which is directly linked to the outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus; the establishment in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego Gospodarstwa Gospodarki Fund Returns from which it is to be implemented, until the funds collected are exhausted, payments to travellers where the traveller has not received or has not agreed to receive the voucher referred to in Article. Article 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, paragraph 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k, 15k 2 covidowej law; the creation in the Insurance Guarantee Fund of the Tourist Assistance Fund from which payments are to be made to cover the reimbursement of travel expenses for tourist events which have not been or will not be carried out because of an announcement or appearance on the territory of the Republic of Poland or at the place where the tourist event is implemented, the inevitable and exceptional circumstances within the meaning of Article. 4 point 15 of the Act of 24 November 2017 on tourist events and related tourist services. The bill is designed to counter what is currently happening in the tourism industry. The tourism industry is experiencing a collapse, and it's a major collapse. The industry needs support and therefore a Tourist Return Fund has been set up, which will be funded by PLN 300 million. Loans will be granted whose repayment will be carried out within 32 months in equal instalments. The amount of PLN 400 million for tourist entrepreneurs is intended for exemption from ZUS contributions and payment of parking fees for carriers, bus drivers, tour pilots, tourist agencies, entertainment agencies. During the committee's work 39 amendments were tabled, which were accepted. I will, of course, move on to discussing them later. I would also like to make three amendments, which are agreed with the Ministry of Development and supported by tourism organisations, and an amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which introduces a provision that allows the choices of professional authorities to be carried out remotely. I'm handing these amendments over for consideration. That's all there is to it. Now I'm asking you questions. [[What about the legislative initiative?]] Legislative initiative... We have a legislative initiative in print 198. This is a legislative initiative presented by Mrs Magdalena Kochan. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy asks that it be able to participate in the work on this law. The Ministry proposes to increase the area of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, before we start asking questions, let me welcome our guests to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Development, Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy, welcome. And a member of the Management Board of the Insurance Guarantee Fund, Mr. Mark Nicholas. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. You were the first to sign up for Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The law is extremely important, especially as it concerns companies from industries that are experiencing huge problems. We are afraid that many of them may not keep up their business and go bankrupt. Questions would probably be about a million, but I will also try to use time in the debate on this subject, which is why I only have two questions for you now. This is about matters that were not raised at the committee meeting, and I will not ask your rapporteur about those issues that we discussed at the committee meeting. First, the Act introduces a requirement for non-cash payment in case the company wishes to use the solutions contained in this Act. But the Polish Insurance Association raises, it seems right that there is no legal basis for this, and I would like to know why, according to your rapporteur, such a solution has been introduced. As a result of this solution, many micro, small, medium-sized companies, which from average Kowalski receive payment in cash, will not be able to benefit from this and may go bankrupt. Such a solution is neither provided for by the Act on tourism events and related tourism services of 24 July 2017. I emphasize the date of adoption of this law, so that it is known that this is the law of this government. Neither the regulation of the Minister of Sport and Tourism of 27 December 2017 on model travel contract trust account etc., that is a very long title, because of the lack of time I will not develop it. And that's one question. The second short question concerns the introduction by amending Article. 15zx high uncertainty for companies, beneficiaries related to parking. You are making a change which will make it impossible for any company for 5 years to be sure that the Social Security Office will not accidentally get to it and will not demand refunds, of course with certain sanctions. You're making a change that will make this uncertainty. I want to ask you what is the ratio of legis of why this is introduced. Is it a mistake, or is it a conscious intention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u20	Mr. Senator, these are very specific questions. I propose that the Minister or representatives of the Ministry of Development answer these questions. I am unable to answer such questions, because this matter is very complicated and affects those areas where I do not move.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u21	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] In the next round, because there's a record... [[I'd just like to ask...]] Mr Senator, there will still be an opportunity to ask questions to Mr Matusiak, because this is a parliamentary project. If he is, I don't see him... [[Voice from the room:]] It is, yeah. ...and a representative of the Ministry. [[Good.]] Now you're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question. I would like to remind the absent in the Chamber that, after the questions, there will be a vote on whether we will include an extension of the legislative initiative on the agenda. I ask the senators to remember that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions. One thing is so specific: what will the customer of the tourism industry result from this law? Could we say in a few sentences what can result from this for the citizen, the one who uses the services of tourist companies? And my second question. In my opinion, I read about constitutional doubts related to this bill. This is about this catalogue of tourist companies, about companies listed in the catalogue, which can use the said instrument, the mechanism. I therefore have a question as to whether during the committee's work there was a speech on this subject and whether amendments have been adopted which would in some way address these constitutional doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u23	In answer to your question... the tourism organizer may apply for payment to the traveler of the money paid by this traveler to the travel organizer to the tourist event that did not take place. And this traveler will be able to request that this organizer return these funds. And that's what makes it easy for a traveler like you. Question two... [[It dealt with issues of constitutional doubt related to the catalogue. Was there a discussion about this? Because I read in my opinion that there are some such doubts here. So I simply have a question as to whether there was a speech on this subject and whether amendments have been adopted which would somehow address the issue of these doubts.]] As far as I know, there was no mention of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u24	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to make sure that you have the chair of the committee, the rapporteur of the committee, that the initiative that has been put forward under the Rule. 69 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which directly covers fairer, more favourable to mothers who are on leave, or pregnant women who are on maternity leave, for those who receive benefits because of illness, for those who receive rehabilitation benefits... The aim is to ensure that reduced working time or reduced pay do not affect the amount of benefits. Is this initiative agreed in agreement with the representatives of the family ministry, with the Deputy Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, agreed in agreement and supplemented, as agreed during the committee's deliberations, about a government solution covering a full catalogue of people we do not want to be affected by the financial consequences of the COVID, approved?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u26	I would like to give the floor, first of all, to Mrs Iwona Michalek, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. And she... But we have a consensus... [[Excuse me...]] ...and we voted in favour. [[I mean...]] We voted in favour of... [[That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.]] ...to take this into account, such a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. I would like to remind you that, after hearing the motion made by the rapporteur, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. We will proceed to the vote in a moment... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask the Minister to...]] But it's gonna be a point... [[Good. Well, that's...]] This will be in the section on questions and answers, questions to the Ministry and to... [[Okay.]] ...the applicant's office. It'll be after the vote. I am now announcing a five-minute recess to give a chance to return to the sitting room for those who are currently absent. Let me remind you that it is the duty of the senator to take part in the vote. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 49 to 11 minutes 57]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. I would like to remind you that, after hearing the motion made by the rapporteur, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. We therefore proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 81 votes, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has supplemented the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. This will be the second item on the agenda, which will be discussed immediately after the first item, as they constitute, in reality, the whole. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak was authorised to present the position of the Members of the project's applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[If there's any questions...]] Thank you very much. There's a question for the Member. So, if you don't mind, I'd like to invite you to the podium. You're asking Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Although I would like to ask the rapporteur because I do not know if... [[But it is.]] It's okay, isn't it? ...because he received questions from Senator Jackowski about whether this bill, this bill, contains proposals that are not in accordance with the Constitution. The rapporteur, Senator rapporteur, replied that he did not make proposals incompatible with the Constitution. I don't know if it's a mistake or a claim like that... According to the Senate Legislative Office this project in many points I can quote that, but you all have it in the materials. It contains proposals for non-constitutional provisions, and that is why I tabled amendments during the discussions of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. So I repeat the question to the rapporteur, if he can answer that question. And if the Member representing the applicants could comment on that, I would also be grateful. I'll also remind you of two of my previous questions that haven't been answered. The Senator rapporteur, so to speak, asked the Member to respond, since the draft law is actually written by the Members of Parliament, which, of course, triggers laughter, and we are not laughing at such declarations because of the seriousness of this House. So answer these questions, because in this situation you are the best source of information here, as the author or co-author of the bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u29	Thank you, sir, and there you go, Mr... Oh, no. Thank you, Senator. And there you go, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! First of all, the bill is constitutional, because we also voted on it in the Sejm and our legal opinions on this issue are clear. I don't know what the senator's doubts are about, but this... Maybe in time you'll find out, and you'll get sources and information about the constitutionality of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u31	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u32	Mr President, I am referring to the legal opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, not any external opinion or opinion. This raises reservations about the compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of certain entries as regards the addition of an article. 15ka lips. Point 1 (2) or as regards the addition of the provision of Article. 15ka lips. 20 and Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 15kc lips. 17. Anyway, I could exchange... I understand that since you represent applicants and are an author or co-author, you know this document, or else you wouldn't be here to represent applicants. So, obviously, I can either read it or explain it, but I can't fit it in a minute. Well, I understand that I'm talking to a competent person with full, 100% knowledge of the subject, and so also about the position of the Senate Legislative Office, etc. This position of the Legal Office is from September 8th, 2 days ago, so it was time to get acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u33	Thank you. Do you have anything else to add, Mr. Speaker? [[No.]] Thank you very much. [[But I have another question.]] Oh, yet, yet... excuse me, Mr. Speaker. Senator Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, We have quite difficult matter here, so I would like to ask what the intention of the authors was to introduce into the amendment of the Law on Special Solutions in point 17 of the article. 15... He's very long, anyway, I'll read it, and you might be kind to explain it. The Insurance Guarantee Fund and the persons acting on its behalf with due care shall not be liable for the damage caused by the improper execution of the payments referred to in paragraph. 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14s, 14 and, 14s, 14 and, 14 This paragraph simply concerns payments from the aid fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u35	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador. [[There's a representative here... and he can answer that question. You're welcome.]] [[But...]] You will be accountable to the Minister in a moment, now to the Member. How can you answer that? You can redirect it to the Minister... Then I'll ask the Minister, he'll have the opportunity to speak. [[I would ask the Minister to provide information on this.]] Are there any more questions for the Member? [[I have a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u36	I have a fundamental question, and I ask you to answer that question. I would like to remind you that the whole debate is of course recorded and also published online. Tell me, who is the author of this bill: a government or a group of Members?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u37	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u38	A group of MEPs with the government. [[Voice from the room: Stupid question and stupid answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u39	But the author is one. The author, yes, has the right to consult with anyone With the government, with non-governmental organisations, with social partners. But this is something that has not been done in Poland for 5 years. The author is one, so I ask whether he created, wrote this draft government, whether you are in the Sejm, Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u40	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u41	In the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u42	Thank you. Are there any other questions? There isn't. Mr President, thank you very much. There are no more questions for you. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Iwona Michalek, please... [[This isn't the bill, Mr. Marshal.]] This isn't the bill... Then why am I being misled? Good. Minister Gut-Mostowy. Please, Minister. And I'm gonna need you on the stand, 'cause I'm sure they're gonna be asking you questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! The law we are talking about will save the Polish tourism industry to a large extent. About PLN 300 million dedicated to returns to customers of travel agencies in times of crisis after, I will remind you, 180 days of delaying effective cancellation of tourist events, is a legal solution of the Evenemental scale in Europe. This is a solution that we have worked out with the applicant's Member. Of course, all the solutions presented in this law were created in consultation with the tourism industry. Well, it cannot be said that all solutions respond to any suggestions made by the tourism industry, but this basic element, namely the creation of a travel refund fund of 300 million PLN, through which it will take place, from covid funds, the return of funds to these travel agencies, is fundamental. We want to save the Polish tourist market from collapse, we want the Polish consumer to be able to safely recover funds that have been frozen for several months. We are also launching the Tourist Aid Fund, which is the answer to the increased risk of foreign travel, but not only foreign travel, at the present time. This is a solution that... Thanks to the appropriate risk reduction in the coming months and years, the Polish tourism market will be safe. It is a solution strongly supported by Polish tour operators, because all the risks that the pandemic has brought, as well as other risks associated with tourism will be absorbed by the Tourist Aid Fund. I will also try, in two words, to address the doubts raised here in the questions to the applicant. As regards the allegations of non-constitutionality, which appeared in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, we do not agree with these allegations of course. The first charge that emerged was that these solutions are intended only for tourism organisers on the appropriate list, which is led by the Ministry of Development and which is available to the Insurance Guarantee Fund. I would like to remind you that in the case of tourism organizers, the tourist trade in Poland takes place in this way... There is a separate list, thanks to which tourism organisers can safely use all the security features of this market. I'm talking about the Tourist Guarantee Fund. The solutions we propose as part of the Tourism Return Fund are dedicated only and exclusively Here's voluntaryity. For tourism organisers who are listed on the list mentioned above. Once again, I stress: the allegations concerning the non-constitutionality of the provisions of this law are considered to be... disagreeable with them. As far as the cost of the bill is concerned, I have already mentioned that PLN 300 million is allocated from covid funds to start refunds for customers of travel agencies. This is to ensure that the entire tourism market is safely stabilised for the coming months and years. The second part of the Act concerns exemptions from the ZUS and parking for selected professional groups from the tourism industry, as well as from the stage industry. We estimate that the amount allocated to the exemptions from the Social Security Office and the parking will be non-refundable resources of about PLN 400 million. Thanking the High Senate for leaning over this bill, we also thank you for being on the committee... Although there was a break in the committee's work on this bill, yesterday's meeting showed a constructive approach to many entries. Thank you for continuing to work on the bill today. The tourism industry is waiting for these records. In the course of yesterday's committee work, we agreed that the rate of the drop in turnover required to raise parking funds and the exemption from the Social Security Office... It's not gonna be like a bill of 80%. , but 75%. The amendments that were tabled yesterday at the committee meeting and which take this into account, have as much acceptance of the government as possible. This is set out in the positive position of the government on the amendments. I am talking about the relocation of funds and the ZUS from June to July, i.e. the month shift, is also accepted by the Ministry of Development. In short, Mr. Marshal, so much for this bill. I am at your disposal when it comes to other matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u44	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Minister, stay a little longer. There are questions for you, so that I would ask... Mr. Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u45	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will have some more short questions, but first I would like you to answer the questions that I asked the rapporteur earlier. Senator rapporteur, I understand, with the Minister's permission, he has assigned answers to the Minister. Let me just remind you what I meant about these questions. First of all, why does it come from art. 15K is an obligation to accept non-cash payments? I've cited the provisions of the Tourist Party Act and the government government regulation that doesn't foresee such a thing. I ignore the fact that there is no constitutional or statutory possibility for an entrepreneur to force a customer to pay by bank transfer, credit card or cash. Well, an entrepreneur in Poland has no right to force or remove from his tourist office a client who wants to pay in a certain form. And the state of this law as if it were indirectly implemented by. and it was post factum, because these payments were made once. So it is simply against the constitution, against the law, against legislative pragmatism and simply against the interests, ordinary interests and entrepreneurs, especially since they are generally, in 99%, Polish micro-enterprises or small companies and citizens. That was the first question. And second question. I'll remind you that it was a change in the article. 15zx concerning another new definition which you introduce as regards the benefit paid to a person other than the person entitled for reasons independent of the Social Security Office. This will introduce a functioning uncertainty of entrepreneurs for 5 years, or someone after simply changing the interpretation of the law It's not the law, it's the interpretation of the law, it's the opinion of the law, it's a look at the facts from 4 or 5 years ago. It will not lead to the ruins of the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u46	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The adopted design of the return of funds to customers of travel agencies is an innovative design on a European scale. Thus, public funds are reimbursed directly to the customer of travel agencies, although earlier, at the time of the purchase of a given tourist event, the funds were paid to the travel agent. We accepted, of course, in agreement with the tourism industry and with the applicant Member That such a construction should be as safe as possible and should ensure that public funds go to the Polish consumer that they will not become part of any illegal behaviour. During the legislative work, during the discussion with the industry, we considered that such a criterion, that only through non-cash operations will be reimbursed to travel agents, will be the most safe and guarantee that these funds will be sent directly to the Polish consumer. We checked what percentage of those customer contributions to travel agencies were cash operations. Our statistics showed that it was less than 0.5%. Definitely the entire turnover of the tourism industry, but also contributions to tourist events usually take place through non-cash operations. And it is often also the case that there is still an intermediary, a tourist agent, and then there are processed transfers or collective transfers by a tourist agent to a tour operator. And considering that such a small percentage of turnover in the tourism industry takes place in the form of cash... And, by the way, we have guaranteed full verification that the payment to the travel agency once took place. I would like to remind you that the bill states that several data must be compared to confirm the reliability and reliability of the contribution to the tourist event. So there must be a statement from the travel agency's account, there must be appropriate documents from the client's side. And the Insurance Guarantee Fund, when verifying all these documents, also has at its disposal certain institutions of the National Tax Administration confirming with 100% certainty that such a deposit to the tour operator's account took place. These measures may then be reimbursed. Therefore, aside from the legal aspects, whether it is incompatible with the constitution or with a good habit to process only and exclusively non-cash operations, and finding that it is less than 0,5% all the tourist payments operations, we thought this was the most appropriate way to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u48	Thank you. [[If you don't mind...]] Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u49	Minister, I am convinced that you have unwittingly confirmed not only our concerns here, but also our statements and statements about how your government works. You have a view, you think there's something about minorities, and there's nothing to worry about minorities, there's no law, there's no rules, there's no constitution, there's no minority, and you're bringing it in. If it were not contrary to the Constitution, if it were not contrary to the provisions of the Act, the State Act, of 2017 on tourism events, if it were not incompatible with the State regulation, then I might even accept such a translation that 98% pays yes and 2% Yes. Anyway, this is your data. Polska Izba Ubezpieczeń 'Cause I'm pleading for a credible institution here, that's not my view. I think he has knowledge of the subject and radically criticizes it, even saying that many companies will fall because of it. But even if I didn't want to argue about who's right about the facts... The legal state is a country where the constitution and laws are in force and not the views of ministers. You want to introduce solutions based on the views of ministers, not on the legal basis. That's how the government works, that's how ministers work, that's how a lot of government institutions and agencies work, based on their views. [[Voice from the room: Question!]] [[Mr. Senator, a question, please.]] I've already asked the question, and now I'm supplementing it, that's the justification for my question. If the question is not understood, I will make it concrete. Do you not think that it is necessary to withdraw from this, precisely because it is incompatible with the rules that apply in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u50	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u51	Dear Senator, I do not agree with the argument that only the views of a person or minister have decided on the provisions of this law. These records have been created for many weeks and have been consulted with the entire tourist environment, with the insurance industry, and such a record that was created for verification, which says that only cash-free payments of customers to travel agents will be the basis for returns, seemed to be as valid and accepted as possible by the tourism industry, because it eliminated all the risks associated with poor use of public funds. And the whole honest-working tourism industry wants to receive these funds and wants to ensure that there are no elements of forgery that would be bad for the tourism industry in the future. An additional argument is that this reimbursement system for travel agents' customers is a voluntary system. Let me remind you that already two large travel agencies have announced that they are processing returns for travel agents' customers without waiting for these public funds. These are large tour operators who have a dozen percent share of the Polish market. Given that this is a voluntary system, for those tourism organisers who want to benefit from this support, it seems to us that the charge of discrimination is unreasonable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u52	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u53	I mean, two questions have been asked by the rapporteur's senator, the rapporteur has addressed these two questions to the minister, the minister has accepted them and answered one question. And there is another question about changing the definition related to the Social Security Office, which will lead to uncertainty for entrepreneurs who will benefit from the Act, because within 5 years you will be able to demand some refunds from them. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u54	Okay, then I'm asking for an answer on the ZUS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u55	Mr. Senator, please respond to the department director, Mr. Dominic Bork, who knows the details of this record.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u56	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u57	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Dominik Borek, Department of Tourism at the Ministry of Development. As regards the amendment concerning Article. 15zx, that's it. In fact, to correct a certain error, which was due to the fact that today, in the covid act, we have a provision that says that the person who took the wrong parking benefit is obliged to return it with interest. Therefore, in a situation where the Social Security Office is wrong to transfer these funds to a person who is not entitled to do so, this error had to be corrected so that this return by that person would occur without interest. If the Social Security Office erroneously transfers funds, it will transfer them to an unauthorised person, then this provision shall apply. This is simply to correct the error that occurred at an earlier stage of legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u58	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[Mr. Marshal, I don't think we understand each other. We're talking about other regulations...]] Mr. Senator... [[But I'm quitting, because I can see we're not gonna change anything here.]] [[Excuse me, could I have the answer to my question?]] Now Senator Komarnicki will ask the question, and then you will repeat yours. [[But I've already asked them.]] Senator Komarnicki is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry there was some controversy here. Minister, I would like to ask you other questions I didn't ask you at the committee meeting because I wanted those poor company owners to ask you questions and say something. That's why I'm letting myself do it right now. I have three questions for you. First. I believe deeply that Polish tourism is at your heart, because it is mostly Polish capital. You have to say that... maybe different. To what extent does the tourist voucher help foreign travel and travel tourism? We're talking here, I'm talking about tourism bona, not about Sorry, I have to call it that. Bubble, because, frankly, it is unnecessarily called the Polish Tourist Bonus, because it is only a social bonus. Unfortunately, Minister, it has little impact on the economy. Let me remind you, Minister, that tourism, 120 billion GDP... He's only for children and intra-national tourism worth 3.5 billion. Do you think this is help? My second question: why, Minister, in the parking lot for 79. 11. And the tourist agents are included in the seasonality? Agents can never suspend their activities because they're responsible for reservations. It is either calculating the government, or not knowing about the operation of agents who are not service providers for tourism organisers, and are independent operators, just like shops, only that they sell not a physical product and a commissioned service product. And my last question. Minister, how is it that foreign capital, TUI, has the support of its country of EUR 3 billion, and the entire tourist voucher I just assessed, has PLN 3.5 billion? To be honest, these 2 amounts show actions on the Polish market, which unfortunately are going It's clear, I'm saying it as a former long-term entrepreneur. For the acquisition of Polish capital. I note, Minister, that Polish tourism is one of the few, let us be honest, segments of the economy with such a large share of Polish capital. You talk so much about economic patriotism. So what does it look like in a situation of interference with this foreign capital? To be honest, Minister, what scale and what vision? And this is supposed to be just the beginning. And one last thing, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u60	Mr. Senator... [[I'm sorry.]] ...okay. Five minutes... [[I'm done.]] Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, I agree with the deep concern for Polish capital and the Polish tourism industry. However, let me disagree with some of the points in your questions. But from the beginning. When I analyze the tourist voucher, I have to point out some positive facts. To date, almost 1 million Polish families have decided... parents of Polish children have decided to register this tourist voucher. The amount of more than PLN 200 million has already entered the tourism industry. Of course, we have until March 2022 to implement the voucher. Is the amount of PLN 3.5 billion that will be allocated in the Polish tourism industry much or little over the next few months? The answer, of course, depends on subjective views. And I wouldn't like to judge these views, whether it's a lot or not. I just want to stress that during one of the many meetings with the tourism industry, where almost 100% represented Polish tourism industry... Let me remind you that the Polish Chamber of Tourism itself is 500 entities, that it is the Chamber of Tourism of the Republic of Poland, an association of OSAT agents... These are organisations that, fortunately, bring together almost the entire tourism industry. And even such doubts arose during the process of the tourist voucher, whether the Polish market of hotel facilities will be able to absorb PLN 3.5 billion from the tourist voucher in the coming months. That's why it's not enough, small or negligible, absolutely, I think... Let me disagree with that. As far as parking for travel agents is concerned, we also believe that this is not included in this bill. If the senator would like to know the detailed solutions, Director Borek will present them in the next answer. But this bill doesn't have any parking elements for tourist agents. With regard to the aid allocated to the German tour operator TUI in the amount of EUR 3 billion, we obviously know that this is more than average aid if the whole European market is taken into account, for the tourism industry, for the tour operator. We do not want to compare our quotas with such a large service. We can compare ourselves with several other European countries of similar size, similar economic structure. And here the statistics are surprising. It turns out that aid for the tourism industry, as well as for the economy in general, locates Poland immediately after Germany and after the mentioned assistance for TUI with our western neighbour. It seems to us that this is an honorable second place on the scale of Europe... that it is, as I said, an honorable one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u62	Thank you. Senator Joanna Sekuła has asked the rapporteur questions. The Member has redirected them to the Minister. If the senator could repeat that question, it would make it easier... [[Unless the Minister remembers.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development Andrzej Gut-Mostowy: Literally one sentence, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u63	It is paragraph 17 where liability is excluded. This is all the more surprising, Minister, that you have been kind to mention that the fund will have public resources, which I do not fully agree with. But if you've expressed that view, it's all the more so, I'll say it's very, very surprising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u64	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u65	This aspect was raised in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office: The Insurance Guarantee Fund should be responsible for the reliability of its operation. The basic element that was raised during the committee's meeting is that the Insurance Guarantee Fund is not a state legal person, it is a public institution. And by analogy with the records on other financial institutions, the definition of its activities should not be subject to such rigor as is the case for example. in the case of the Financial Supervision Committee. But I would very much like to ask you to complete my reply to the Vice President of the Insurance Guarantee Fund. Mr. President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u66	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, in this recipe we are actually modeling ourselves on solutions related to the Bank Guarantee Fund, which also... Because let's see what the purpose of the bill is. The purpose of the bill is to help the industry in such a way that the industry, instead of paying out its own funds, now gets a loan, in fact, for paying consumers. And then she's gonna pay off that loan. It is a voluntary loan, so not everyone has to participate. So the point is to pay the funds to these consumers pretty quickly. To pay off quickly. So that's how he does it. Bank Guarantee Fund. If the bank goes down, that money has to be paid out in a week. And where does the data of those to whom it is to be paid come from? This data comes from tourist companies. In the case of a bank fund, data is derived from those banks that have fallen. So we're gonna be collecting data... And the point is how to keep the balance between, so to speak, the speed of payout and checking that all the information we get and verify is true, that it's all verified and that there's no such thing as fraud. Maybe it does, too. to happen that, I don't know, the data that the consumer gave us, and the data that the company gave us, wouldn't agree. The consumer's gonna be, well, upset that he's been waiting so long. So it could happen that... well, we want to sort of reconcile the rate of payout and verification. And that's, as I say, exactly like art. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Notabene is based on recommendations for guarantee funds in general, European recommendations that it is excluded there... 'Cause it's just at this rate... Either we want this help to go to the recipients in two years and we'll check every receipt, or we'll check it out, and we'll call it electronic, which is why there are records that all these applications are made in an electronic way and we'll try to pay out pretty quickly. So that all of this is based on the Banking Solutions of the Guarantee Fund, not on any other solutions that have recently appeared in public space. So here... I don't know, if there's anything else to add, I'm asking for questions. I'd add a few more words here when it comes to TUI. It's like this: TUI got public aid in the form of a loan. So in fact, the aid is only in the form of less interest than they would have received at the bank. And when it comes to the voucher, it's just that the voucher is like the whole... Tourist companies in Poland don't pay for the voucher. So they get a net of 3.5 billion. And in Germany, they actually get interest on these three billion. So you also have to remember how to count public aid if someone gets this help from, well, the public side. Well, I'll also say that, in fact, when it comes to UFG, we're... We're not a state legal person, we're not an official. It is such a body created next door, i.e. created by a law. Neither are we. in the KRS. So, well, we're so pretty... We will actually be, to some extent, the electronic operator of these withdrawals. Why us? Well, because we have a database of tourist companies, because there's a Tourist Guarantee Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u67	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. A similar situation, you asked the senator a question, you redirected it to the Minister. If you don't mind, please repeat the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u68	Maybe I won't say it like that, but I'll go back in time to those earlier questions. There were some answers. Anyone can judge them. But now, using the opportunity to ask a question to the Minister, I will limit myself to just one point, because it is very, in my opinion, important. Each crisis is an obvious risk to everyone, those who do not get help, but even those who get help. Nevertheless, this is also a time of opportunity. And, to be honest, I'd like to draw attention to one of these catalogues of all industries that I think is facing a huge threat. I'd like to ask if you're outside this bill... Because if this bill is adopted with the Senate's amendments, if the Senate accepts it with the Senate's amendments, it will help these companies, but if you do something wrong with this bill, these companies will still be in serious trouble. I am referring here to the special trade fair industry in this area. I am from Wielkopolska and of course the Poznań International Fair is very important to me, but the ones that take place in Kielce, Gdańsk, Wrocław etc. are equally important. But it is not only the trade fair companies that are experiencing huge difficulties, including those that cooperate with them. These are all PKDs, I will no longer read them, but at least the name to make it clear to the public, i.e. organizers of events and meetings, organizers of tourism, market logistics, freight forwarding, travel agents, organization of fairs, etc. These are companies that are already slowly bankrupt. Among them are the ones that didn't make the gold, the ones that made the 5%, the 10%. the same as last year. This is not enough, these Polish companies, because they are generally Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, not generally, 100% ... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a question.]] Now. These are companies that dominate foreign markets... [[Did...]] And when they fall, first of all... [[...can you, Senator...]] ...we will lose this domestic market, and secondly, foreign capital will enter here. [[Mr. Senator, a question, please.]] I'll repeat the question because I already asked it. [[Yes, sir.]] In addition to this law, do you provide for other forms of special aid for the trade fair and related industries?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u69	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Here's what I'm gonna say. We are aware, of course, of the whole economic situation, of the crisis, of certain security restrictions, that the trade fair industry is in an extremely difficult situation. We met on my behalf and on behalf of other deputy ministers from our ministry, also on behalf of the directors of the trade fair industry, at least the largest centres, and we know the importance of fair events in creating economic development, in building a certain synergy, in building new products, in building a positive image. As far as the provisions of this law are concerned, we are not authorised to increase the financial scope for parking and ZUS from the Ministry of Finance as well as other government institutions. However, in our view, it will be important for the fair industry to count on some systemic aid in the coming months, as well as conceptual aid, how to return to the market, so that the fair industry can be reactivated and, under new economic and sanitary conditions, be able to function. So that from this side my answer, Mr. Senator, is absolutely so. I'm sure the Ministry of Development sees the needs of the trade fair industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u71	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you so much for your answer. Allow me, in one case, to disagree with you, and I will justify it. Minister, 120 billion GDP is very much. Minister, almost 100% Polish capital. I've been doing business in Germany for 20 years, and I'm aware of what a great country it is and how wealthy it is. I don't want to compare, but as an entrepreneur, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that Polish companies will not disappear. And my question is, do you see in the near future... bon? Okay. The Lord says children. Great, I'm glad, I'm applauding. But I was talking about economic operators, Minister. My question is, aren't you thinking of further help, perhaps, as the department director said, some kind of credit that will keep these companies from disappearing? That was my intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u73	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u74	Once again, I stress that I am very happy for your interest and share your concern about the Polish industry and Polish capital. Indeed, tourism, arrival tourism, i.e. guesthouses, hotels, aquaparks, ski stations, this is a segment of tourism where Polish capital is definitely dominant. Of course, a slightly different segment are tour operators and tour operators, but in this case we also have such a happy situation that the vast majority of the market are companies with Polish capital. Surely, as far as the wide-ranging tourism industry is concerned, it already exists... As regards the loan guarantees, I would like to recall the loan guarantees of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which may cover as much as 80% reinsurance of certain claims that can be considered as risky. This is already a large instrument which is used by the tourism industry Because we know that the tourism industry, when it comes to standing, is certainly now seen much worse in banks. As I said and emphasized, all these solutions that we have introduced since March for tourism I'll remind you that this is a 180-day delay for the need to reimburse travel agency customers... And this is a solution that is an event on the European market. Of course, there is a solution to this law concerning the Tourist Assistance and Tourism Fund for Returns. They respond to the current situation, as the European Commission has forced Polish travel agencies to do so since mid-September. But we had six months to find solutions and find funds for Polish travel agencies so the Polish consumer could get paid back. 'Cause what could happen? Of course, the situation with many travel agencies is not good, but the Polish consumer would still be prejudiced at tourist offices and tourist companies, because it would be suspected that something could happen to these offices that they have financial problems... And this prejudice to travel agencies would certainly result in a collapse in the tourist market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u75	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to ask about the article. Point 1 (1). As I understand it, it concerns not only the tourism industry, but entrepreneurs at all. The idea is to give them the opportunity to submit applications throughout the pandemic period, up to 30 days after the end of this period. Am I right in thinking that this is not just about the tourism industry? That's the first question. And the second, related to this point, but on the issue of entry into force. That is, Art. 36 of the Mother's Law, so I would call it, or the changed one, of March 22, speaking in the paragraph. 4... I quote this, then it will be clear: Article. 15g... This is the one that the following article refers to. 15gh. He says: "The provisions of the article. 15g shall expire 180 days after the date of entry into force of the Law of 31 March 2020... that is 180 days. And this law also entered into force on March 31, because it was, I remind you, such a quick adoption procedure, also in the Senate. 180 days from March 31, this gives, if I think well and count, September 27th. And now, first of all, there could be a danger that this law, which we are talking about, would come into force later, would be a period between September 27 and the entry into force of this law, and then, in short, it would simply not be possible to submit applications. But this... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development Andrzej Gut-Mostowy: I can answer...]] But it prevents it. ♪ Though not quite ♪ Amendment 36. There is, however, another doubt. Well, here's the extension... Amendment no. 1 extends the period of application of the article. 15g, but it will formally expire under Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th of Mother's Laws, as I said, September 27th. Is such a formal extension of the time to submit applications and not only from the expiry of the entire article sufficient? Isn't there something to add here, some kind of amendment? E.g. repeal paragraph. 4, the one from the provisions of the Mother's Law, which simply derogates, cuts this article out of the legal order. 15g? I'd ask you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u77	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u78	Mr Senator, as regards the reimbursement of funds to travel agents' customers forced by this 180-day extension period, the provisions of both the Polish Act on Tourism Events and the European Union Directives say that the refund must take place 14 days from that date. So all these deadlines could still be added to 14 days. As regards the question relating to point 1, I would ask you to supplement Director Dominic Bork.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u80	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Dominik Borek, Ministry of Development. As far as the senator's question is concerned, I confirm: Art. Point 1 does not apply only to the tourism industry. This is a proposal from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which has cooperated with your Member as regards the bill. There is indeed an extension of this term. In our view, this issue does not require any clarification in the legislative assessment. It is clear and understandable. Here actually the term... these 30 days are added in item 1. This is in line with the demands that have been jointly developed on our forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u81	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, if you could possibly ask the Director because...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u82	The idea of the question was this. In the first part, everything is obvious. Article inserted in the amendment of the first, Article. 15gh, allows applications to be submitted on the basis of Article. 15g. But it's art. 15g is cut because the article is removed. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four from the mother's bill, from the legal order. I'll quote him again. Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4: the provisions of Article. 15g will expire 180 days after the date of entry into force of the Law of 31 March, 27 September. So we give the possibility to submit applications based on a rule that is removed from the legal order of the mother's law. That's what I'm talking about. Will the application itself do anything if there is no legal provision on the basis of which the application can be submitted? Because the Article is in force. 15g was limited to 180 days. Shouldn't we make a change here yet, cut out our mouths? 4 of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u83	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u84	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I confirm here that... art. 1 point 15: in Article. 36 paragraph shall be deleted. 4. Therefore, this request is already met. I think it's enough to ask the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u86	I, Minister, on the issue of an element that is introduced as a novelty. This is the contribution that will be charged to travelers by virtue of the agreement concluded to participate in the tourist event. The following provisions refer to the fact that the Minister responsible for tourism, in agreement with a number of other ministers, will determine how and how this contribution is calculated. I understand that this contribution will be a contribution to the aid fund. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u87	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u88	Thank you, senator, for that question. Of course, it's a novel. By analogy to the functioning of the already existing tourist guarantee fund for several years... I will remind you that a few years ago, with the consent of the Polish parliament, a fee was introduced. Every Polish consumer... At the moment it is a contribution of PLN 15. This 15 PLN is added to the fee for each tourist and tourist event is guaranteed safe return in the event of failure of the travel agency. Such provisions have been introduced. I had the pleasure of being the chairman of the Parliament's Tourism Committee at the time. They have been processed for many years. There have been very long discussions, whether these additional dozens of zlotys will not be an important element affecting the tourist market. In the committee, we've been investigating this for many, many months. At that time, we used the research carried out by the largest Polish organizations, tourist offices. OSAT, an association of many travel agents in Poland, conducted such a survey among Polish travel agencies, and the question was whether the amount of a dozen zlotys, which will be charged in the case of travel agencies, would have a significant impact on the decisions made by the customers and would it be acceptable to pay such a fee if it was certain that in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency it would be possible to return from any place on the ground. And then it turned out that the vast majority, 80-90% Polish society in these surveys replied that she would opt for such an additional contribution if it was possible to return. I'll remind you, it was a time when... [[But, excuse me, I'm not talking about the substance of this contribution. What I'm talking about is linking the fact that you're paying a new tourist contribution to the refund fund...]] With the aid fund... [[The refund fund, the relief fund... that would be another question. The way you're building your support is so screwed up that we haven't figured out how it works...]] I can explain it in two words, Senator. The Tourist Return Fund is only an intermediary for returns to travel agents' customers from covid funds. We are setting up a completely new institution, the Tourist Aid Fund, which will be a security buffer. The industry called it a disaster fund, we called it the Tourist Aid Fund. The aim is to ensure that additional security measures are provided through voluntary contributions. And if, for example, There will be an outbreak of pandemics on the other side of the world, and the travel agency will be able to ensure that customers staying there return. This contribution will be determined, as you suggested, by order of the competent minister. We want to apply an analogy to the existing Tourist Guarantee Fund... This is usually the amount of several zlotys. Importantly, the tourism market takes on the risks associated with travel for the coming months and years. We see ourselves that this risk of travel is now completely different, at a higher level than in the past.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u89	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There's no more. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development Andrzej Gut-Mostowy: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to support the amendment and submit the same-sounding amendment That Senator Piech made. This is an amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the possibility of holding elections during the pandemic of local authorities representing legal professions such as lawyers and lawyers. It seems to me that the history of this amendment will go to the annals of parliamentarianism not only Polish, but also worldly, because it is an amendment that... At first, the ministry relied on this idea for a long time, and later, convinced by a multitude of people who knew how to organise elections in local governments, it was up to such an amendment. She passed in the previous law on COVID with large perturbations, because unfortunately we have already come in our actions and in our relation to one another to such suspicion that even if good corrections are submitted, then from the machine when they are reported by another party, they are rejected. I sadly conclude that it works both ways, because it turns out that not only the government rejects good opposition amendments, but also the opposition. In his confidence that the government must be wrong It also rejects good and necessary government amendments. Why is this such a strange situation? It passed this amendment under the previous COVID Act, it was adopted by the Sejm and in this whirlwind which is, and in this legislative frenzy, which unfortunately is being carried out, as was the result of the discussion, in a big mess, at exactly the same sitting of the Sejm, the next law was passed, and this one overturned the amendment. An amendment which the Ministry itself made with our support and then with the support of the Sejm. Therefore, I very, very much ask all of you, on both sides, to accept this amendment this time, because it has nothing to do with politics. She's just gonna make it possible to vote in local public trust organizations. She is very much needed because, if we do not accept her, it will not be possible to hold the respective elections this year in the barrister's authorities and legal advisers. And that's actually everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u91	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, as a man who has been associated with the parliamentary tourism industry for many years, even though I have been chair of the Economic Committee in the Sejm for many years, for which tourism has been an important area of interest for us, but I have also been chair of the permanent subcommittee on. I was looking forward to this bill with great impatience, as before on the Polish Tourist Bone Act, hoping that the government would prepare solutions, earlier on on on the voucher, and now on this anti-covid act, such as will not be some kind of mystification, will not only fake help for Polish companies and all those that operate in our country, but will actually build if there is no longer a barrier to drama and tragedy that can take place on this market, it is at least a system, a comprehensive system of support for everyone. But in the case of the Polish Tourist Bonus, disappointment was immediate and lasts until today. It is a law which is very selective and narrowly outlined for only a few in the market. In fact, in my opinion, it is not a help for business, a help for business, a help for tourism, but a social aid for selected citizens. That is why we have tabled amendments extending, even if not all, to pensioners, pensioners, seniors and families who do not have children, but also to rest on the one hand, looking at the social aspect, and, on the other hand, looking at the business aspect, so that the tourism business can benefit and be supported by this bon in various forms and not only unilaterally. Well, the bill was passed without our amendments. It supports, as I said, a few, even the strongest in the market. She did not support and support weak small Polish companies, she does not support those who do not have e.g. big, giant hotels. But we were hoping for that bill. Because the issue is important, and it is not only for business, for employees of these companies, but also for you, because tourism is about 7%. gross domestic product, it is difficult to find another sector that brings so much. That's disappointing again. Because, in fact, you look only at national tourism, and in the case of the previous law I mentioned, and in the case of this, and as much as 75%. gross domestic product produced gives foreign tourism and arrival tourism, i.e. arrivals from abroad to Poland. This is so important that without, for example, developing arrival tourism, huge, very strong, very important and competitive markets in Poland, i.e. the hotel market, the market, the convention market, the event market, which competes with foreign markets, with markets from Germany, France, Scandinavia, etc., let alone Central and Eastern Europe, will be experiencing huge difficulties. Today, for example. Business hotels, which serve the trade fair industry, can be in 80 and 90% empty, even when reduced by 80% prices per hotel, because no one with tourist vouchers, even though they would already be able to afford it, because the prices from PLN 1,5,2 thousand went down to PLN 250,300, will not come to this business hotel. And he supports, for example. the market industry. Well, disappointment, Minister, again, great disappointment. Another question or another question. Again, this or the previous shield does not include entrepreneurs to the necessary extent, entrepreneurs who are self-employed, but especially In this case, this is an important emphasis Single-member limited liability companies, partner companies, public companies, limited limited liability companies, etc. And these are legal solutions that dominate the operation of small companies, Polish companies. What I'm saying is, for example. on this market I've already mentioned it. . which works with the fair, 100% There are Polish companies. Not much, they are so competitive that they even have a very strong position in foreign markets, with German leadership. If they fall, they will not only not serve Polish trade fairs and come here. I don't want to exchange countries because I don't want to stigmatize anyone. Foreign companies, but also in their place, will be replaced by Polish companies abroad, or even companies from outside Europe. That is why we need, firstly, an understanding of the situation, secondly, an understanding of needs, and thirdly, the introduction of a genuine, comprehensive, systemic solution to help these companies. And this is in the interest of the Polish state, in the interest of the government, in the interests of Law and Justice. Here we are not only talking about the interest of Jan Kowalski or Franciszek Malinowski, who runs a small Polish company, employs 15 people, including 2, 3 for contract-ordering, the rest for agency contracts, other types of contracts. Well, that's the characteristics of the service. This isn't a manufacturing plant where you hire people to work contracts. In the services of a percentage of employees cannot be employed for employment contracts, and therefore dominating agency contracts, contract-orders, works contracts, etc. They have been excluded from previous shields and are not included in this shield. And again, there's a huge crowd of companies without help. This is also due to the fact that the number of companies that work for or within the broader sense of tourism We are talking about the tourism, hotel, event, congress, logistics, advertising, concert, artistic, etc. It has not been included in this Act. These PKDs as if they don't exist in the Polish system, they don't exist. We here speak of myself, I have tabled amendments on behalf of many of our Senators of the Civic Coalition, we see the need to help these companies because we understand the situation. These amendments implement this need. Well, that's where I appeal, Minister. And through you to your superiors. You should accept these amendments and not recommend them to your senators, here in the Senate, and then to the Members of the Sejm who reject them. In this respect, in general in terms of economy, business, social and social matters, which involve it, we should work beyond the party or political divisions. One or the other tourist company has no party ID. These or those fairs don't have party ID. That's not enough, they have one valid I.D. You might call it something else: they have one important, important thing, I'm convinced. And for you, and for us a passport. They have a Polish passport. And we want these companies, proud, wonderful, strong, competitive on the European market to continue to be Polish, to continue to develop, to continue to provide their services, both to citizens, in terms of leisure, recreation, entertainment, as well as to entrepreneurs of various sectors and industries to the extent they serve them, i.e. through the trade fair, conference, congress industry. If we don't understand this, if we don't shake hands together for these entities, we'll still be in dispute, but they'll be gone. In six months' time, in a year's time, the strongest may cease to exist in three years' time or have at most minority packages in their companies. So, in conclusion, Mr. Marshal and High Izbo, I appeal once again: let's have a political dispute, let's have a party dispute, there is a lot of space in which we can pursue what is, of course, a being in democracy, a dispute is the essence of democracy, but let's agree, let's help each other, let's work together for the common good. The business we're talking about today is our common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u94	Dear Marshal, Dear Senate! I wanted to tell the High Senate, but I'll tell the Dear Senate. As a multi-annual entrepreneur with some experience, understanding the economy and the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, I have the right to say today that I am very concerned about the current situation of the tourism industry. Of course, I'll tell you for the sake of clarity. By the pandemic COVID-19. Many people faced a dramatic choice. In order to have any means of living, some had to change their profession and work in another sector to survive. You will admit that these are family dramas. I therefore believe that the State should help them fully. We spoke quite much about this at the meeting of our Committee on National Economy and Innovation. We can't be passive about this kind of harm. The tourism industry was closed practically overnight. The weaker individuals, who didn't have much savings, got into a lot of trouble. I fought for 20 years because we built this capital from the beginning, and I know how Polish companies use this capital only to survive and to make companies spin, people are not fired. And the tourism business is even worse. I would like to remind you in this respectful group that tourism is 800 000 people and more than 13 thousand companies, turnover is almost 55 billion, and its future unfortunately depends on the development of a pandemic and the entry into force of the Act on an anti-crisis shield for tourism. That's not my opinion. In the opinion of experts, restructuring will be a useful solution for many companies in crisis situations. According to the Central Statistical Office in May 2020, 387 000 people used tourist accommodation facilities, i.e. 88.2% less than a year ago. That's a shocking number, I have to say. In June, the drop was less than 62.7%. So in the near future, the second huge challenge for entrepreneurs in this sector will be, and this is an important, expiry date of the so-called payout. Booking returns. All the more crucial, therefore, is the implementation of the aid mechanisms, and we have talked a lot about this at our economic committee meeting. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from commitments entered in Item 6 0 0 1 of During this time, it is important to exempt entrepreneurs from ZUS contributions, payment of parking benefits, as well as the establishment of the Tourist Return Fund, which can help maintain liquidity despite the need for companies to pay Okay, here's a note. Huge funds for canceled tourist events, huge funds. After closing the borders in mid-March this year and introducing restrictions on the movement of hundreds of thousands of Poles canceled their planned trips. People, and this is good, followed government guidelines. They didn't leave, ladies and gentlemen, they stayed home. And according to the analysis of the parliamentary team, which prepared a draft amendment to the Anti-crisis Shield Act for the tourism and stage industries, by June of this year only 30% of the people who resigned or with whom they were broken decided to accept compensation for the costs incurred in the form of long-term vouchers. The vast majority of travel agents and travel service providers preferred a 100% sharp return on their accounts, which means that the industry has to face a high risk. What I was talking about at first and what is most important The Commission notes that the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the According to the mechanisms defined under the crisis shield introduced, I recall that on March 31, tourist operators had 180 days to pay off the funds. Time runs very quickly and without rapid state aid, a large number of companies will have major problems with maintaining liquidity, and I have said this twice at the committee meeting. Therefore, firms in the most difficult situation, without a financial reserve that would allow them to survive the coming months, should already start restructuring operations, because unfortunately no one will. Time in this case is extremely important and will count for every day. The representatives of the tourism industry are calling for help dramatically, and they also said this invited to our committee meeting. I want to say yes. Tourism is a business worth a lot of money. About the fact that tourism plays There's really a lot of money going on, and it's the best way to prove it. According to the Central Statistical Office at the end of October 2019 in Poland was registered, attention, 13,6 thousand companies operating among others. activities of tourism organisers, intermediaries, tourist agents. According to the latest analyses of the World Tourism and Travel Council, the tourism sector in Poland accounts for nearly 5% domestic GDP, and all the spending of domestic and foreign tourists in our country, as I said at the beginning... The turnover associated with this is PLN 55 billion. The problem mentioned earlier, which affects owners or partners, is huge, and helping these entities, I remind you, is extremely important. In the tourism industry, the number of enterprises is managed by owners, and they are also performers of all works. The absence of aid for these entities could result in their closure, i.e. Powering the ranks of people who will have to shut down businesses. Thanks to the help received, entrepreneurs would have a chance to keep companies, as I said to the minister in my questions. Unfortunately, they still bear fixed costs, I remind you, e.g. the cost of rents. I firmly believe that, once these regulations enter into force, legislation will be created to save companies operating in the tourism industry. I would like to appeal again and say what I said at the committee meeting: the tragedy in companies is not political, where there is financial drama, there is no difference between the PiS and the Civic Platform. That is why I am addressing Mr Matusiak first today, who is the initiator of this law, and this is not our last discussion of this dramatic situation... I firmly believe, Minister, that these amendments, which we have argued so much about, but in the right cause, and I have also been involved, will be taken into account by you regardless of political tone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u95	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Jolanta Hibner, Mieczysław Golba, Benjamin Godyla, Aleksander Szwed, Viktor Durlak, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Wojciech Piech, Wojciech Nealny, Alexander Pociej and, remotely, Krzysztof Brejza. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on special solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them is now under consideration. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 198. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this project. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Yesterday, this project was submitted at a meeting of the Economic Committee, brought by Mrs Magdalena Kochan. What do we have on this project? The bill is short, has 3 articles, but it is very important. The draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, hereinafter referred to as the draft law, aims to eliminate the negative social consequences of the application of the provision of the article. 15g and Article 15g 15gb Law of 2 March on special solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, hereinafter referred to as the covidov Act. The reduction of the working time of workers by up to 20% under these provisions results, which, I believe, was not the intention of the legislator, the reduction in the amount of social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, including maternity benefits. According to Art. 40 of the Law of 25 June 1999 on social security cash benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, hereinafter referred to as an allowance law, in the event of a change in the employment contract or other act on the basis of which the employment relationship was based, consisting of a change in the working time, the basis for the allowance is the remuneration established for the new working time dimension. If this change occurs in the month in which the incapacity for work arose or in the months preceding the month in which the incapacity for work referred to in Article arose. 36 the allowance law, pursuant to Article. The 47th allowance law established by the regulation applies accordingly when determining the basis for the assessment of the rehabilitation benefit, the compensatory allowance, the amount of the maternity allowance and the welfare allowance. In this state of affairs it is proposed to amend the covid act by adding the rules according to which, when determining the basis for the assessment of the benefit of social security money in the event of sickness and maternity of a person whose working time has been reduced on the basis of Article. 15g or Article. 15gb covidowej law, art. The 40th allowance bill wouldn't apply. In such a case, a remuneration of the amount fixed for the working time before the reduction would be taken into account when determining the basis for the benefit. Establishment of an inter-temporal standard according to which the proposed regulation would apply to the benefit of a person whose working time has been reduced before the date of entry into force of the proposed law pursuant to Article. 15g or Article. 15gb of the covid act, causes that in such a case, within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the proposed law, the basis for the assessment of the benefit would be ex officio re-established for the period of collection of the benefit under the existing provisions. It is proposed that the draft law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. This project is also supported by the government, but in a slightly different form. The amendments presented by the government party, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, slightly change this presentation which I have presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Wojciech Piecha to represent them. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Part of the question... Well, I just got a partial answer. As I understand it, what is now in this project was previously reported as amendments... [[Yes.]] These amendments, I understand, were not accepted, probably for formal reasons. Please tell me whether these amendments had a broader scope or a narrower scope, i.e. whether, as I say, they were more helpful in the situation of the COVID threat or less.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u100	These amendments were proposed by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, but also by the senator. A little bit different was their formula. This formula by the Ministry of Labour was wider and included more people. This was not included in the covid act, which we have in the first paragraph, because it went beyond the scope of the law. That's why we made this decision, not another one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u101	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I like this project very much, and I welcome this initiative. Would the senator like to bring the philosophy of the government's position closer? What's changed here? Because this mechanism, which was originally written, is simple and obvious. As I understand it, anti-covid laws do not work when the benefit has been reduced for this reason. That's why all these derivatives are just counted... What is the government's proposal in this regard? It's about being clear, knowing what it looks like.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u103	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u104	This regulation is designed to enable... It is about not taking into account this reduction in wages for those who will later benefit from maternity and care allowance, so that these calculations are based on the employment relationship that was before this phenomenon of COVID. [[But that's how it's written here...]] No, no. That's not... [[Is it otherwise written?]] Yeah, well, it's gonna be different later on that welfare benefit and that maternity benefit, with that already reduced pay... We want to bring it back.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u105	The Minister will still be able to answer questions. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] Would Minister Iwona Michalek like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u106	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! The Resort of the family, work and social policy proposed an amendment to the bill, which was dealt with in the first paragraph of the Act. This amendment was intended to take into account a reduced working time or a change in the remuneration associated with the situation of companies during the pandemic, on the basis of the coverage of sickness insurance benefits. This amendment is closely linked to an anti-crisis shield, but the senators have decided that it goes beyond... That's why we're doing this as part of the second point right now. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment's time, you will be briefed by Director Eliza Wiśniewska of the Social Insurance Department. All I'm going to say is that the version that is currently on the Senate page, which is the Senate's No. 198, is much narrower than the version that we've presented. Therefore, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy does not support the draft law in this version. However, if it is wider, as we requested yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, then Yeah. About the details, please. If the marshal lets you tell the director.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u107	Minister, first question for you. If you're in trouble. Of course you don't need to know everything. I'll redirect the question further. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Iwona Michałek: Yes, of course.]] Mr. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński was asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know that yesterday you made amendments that you... As far as their substantive value is concerned, there are no problems. They could be voted out today or tomorrow. The Sejm would take care of them next week, September 17th. The right ones, as you said, and, most importantly, the broader amendments, although this could be changed in the course of the Parliament's work on the Law, would leave for the signature of the President on 17 September. The print project 198 follows a fast path, a project that we are now considering. He will go to the Seym, the Seym will take care of him, I hope, next week, then he will return to the Senate, and the Senate will be able to take care of him at the next sitting, which is at the end of September. The Senate can submit amendments to the Parliamentary Act, which is related to this printing, this printing initiated, and then it will return to the Sejm. The effect will be that the Sejm will only be able to take care of it on 7 and 8 October. In fact, there's gonna be a month's delay here. What's the point of showing... I'm sorry, I don't know what. Omnipotence of the Senate in this regard? If it's okay, there's a formal basis... Saying that the amendments from printing No 198 go beyond the matter of the original law, i.e. the Law from printing No 193, nothing to do with reality. The mother law itself is a set of dozens of rules concerning very different areas of activity, and the common denominator of these rules is one: the fight against COVID. Thus, from the actual point of view, the content contained in print No 198 certainly does not go beyond the matter of the mother's law. It's just by definition. What's all this for? Question is, what's all this for? Why multiply existence beyond need? How will the Minister define it? To me, it's just not understandable. I say it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. This could have been done a month earlier, certainly for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u109	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u110	Of course, Senator, you're absolutely right. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Piecha tabled an amendment in this broader version. It was the senators' decision to proceed in a different way. We regret this because the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy... We want these rules to enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u111	Thank you, Minister. Senator Magdalena Kochan is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u112	Thank you very much. It remains very important to me whether the Minister recognises that there is a sense of the application of correct legislation by the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic. Is there any sense in the application of correct legislation, which this correctness is imposed on us by constitutional principles, by ministries preparing draft laws? Do you see the point? Because if it is to be that we can break all the established laws and say the goal sanctifies the means... I don't really agree with that view. The end doesn't justify the means. You can prepare something in a hurry in a situation where there is a pandemic that surprised us all, including ministry officials. I get it. But it does not exempt us from the obligation of correct legislation, which means that the world will not collapse if the rules that we apply backwards are still to be applied retroactively... if this is paid 2 weeks later, not 2 weeks earlier, and we will follow the rules of legislation. Let us not get used to the fact that we are easily waving our hands at this violation of the principles of regularity of lawmaking in Poland. The question asked by Senator Czerwinski is, in my opinion, a question... Well, I'm not gonna say it's a rhetorical question, because you didn't ask what the point of breaking the law was, but in fact, that's what your question comes down to; that's how I understood it. Is there any point in extending the case if everyone agrees? There it is. Because if something goes beyond submission, we have the opportunity to use the article. 69. And we did. We agree with the Minister... Amendments no one's talking about here At the same time, there was also a request for the application of Article. 69 in case they go beyond the acceptable scope, a group of senators has prepared which authorised me to present these amendments at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The State of the Ministry said: these are good corrections, but we have an even wider catalogue of people. So we said, since it's an art. 69 is used, so let's work together. I will present today during the debate amendments to the set of amendments tabled by me and the draft law drawn up in accordance with Article. 69, the amendments that close this catalogue will be the fulfillment of what was promised at the committee meeting yesterday. We'll keep our word. [[Okay...]] So the question is, does the Minister see the sense of applying the principles of correct legislation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u113	All right. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u114	Yes, of course, knowing the sense of applying correct legislation. And I also see the possibility that yesterday it was possible to include this amendment in the law that was examined in the first paragraph. I believe so, Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u115	Thank you very much. Minister, is this amendment, as I understand it... Do I understand that this amendment will be incorporated today? [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u116	Well, if the senator... Yes, of course... [[Oh, you know something about that. Thank you very much...]] Yes, sir, of course. Right now, we've agreed on this, and that's the situation that's gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u117	In fact, I think we already know everything. But I have one more question for the Minister. As I understand it, the bill, acting backwards, will be like compensating for what these people have lost. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Iwona Michałek: Allow me, Mr. Marshal, that this question will be answered by Director Eliza Wiśniewska of the Social Insurance Department. There you go, Director.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u118	Good morning. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Senators! Eliza Wiśniewska, Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I'd like to point out two things here. Firstly, the actual reduction of the benefit, and not only the benefit, but also other sickness benefits, is a direct consequence of the support that has been granted to the employer. No one, by creating the shield regulations... [[Director...]] Yeah, but I'm just one more... [[...I want you to answer me briefly and clearly.]] Yes. Now we're gonna say we're gonna level it out, but let's keep that in mind... [[These benefits will be evened out, the loss...]] Yeah, they'll be evened out from the day we got in... [[Okay, that's what I'm talking about.]] ...in the implementation of the circular rules reducing the working time or changing the salary, but let us remember that the later these regulations enter into force, the more these people will be... [[Voice from the room: Wait longer.]] ...longer get lower benefits and benefits from sickness insurance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u119	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. We are now in the middle of a discussion... opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u120	Thank you very much. I will no longer repeat the arguments of the debate that de facto took place just now. I would like to submit to the High House amendments to the bill amending the Law on Specific Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 yesterday submitted act added article. 31zy13 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1: When determining the basis for the assessment of the social security allowance in the case of sickness and maternity of a person whose working time has been reduced pursuant to Article. 15g and the person to whom it has been introduced pursuant to Article. 15zf less favourable employment conditions than those resulting from the employment contract, Article shall not apply. 40 of the Law of 25 June 1999 on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2: In the case referred to in paragraph 2. 1. when determining the basis for the assessment of the social security allowance in the case of sickness and maternity, account shall be taken of the remuneration fixed before the reduction pursuant to Article respectively. 15g and Article 15g 15zf. Added article. 31zy14 is replaced by the following: Article.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 31zy13 shall apply mutatis mutandis when determining the basis for the assessment of the social security allowance in 1) whose working time has been reduced under Article. 15gh; 2. which has been introduced on the basis of provisions issued pursuant to Article. 15zzzzo paragraph. 2 less favourable employment conditions than those resulting from the establishment of employment relationships. Art. 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1: to the benefits of social security in the case of sickness and maternity granted to persons referred to in Article, respectively. 31zy13 or Article. 31z14 of the Act as amended by Art. 1. Article 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 31zy13 or Article. 31z14 of the Act as amended by Art. 1, subject to paragraph 1. 2. Paragraph 2 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Law, within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this Law, the basis for the assessment of the monetary benefit referred to in paragraph 2. 1, shall be ex officio re-established for the period of collection of that benefit on the basis of the existing provisions if the benefit collected under the existing provisions is less than the benefit determined in accordance with Article. 31zy13 or Article. 31z14 of the Act as amended by Art. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would very much like to ask the High House to accept these amendments. Then all social groups will not be affected by disease, rehabilitation or maternity leave as a result of a reduction in their salary due to COVID-19. Thank you very much. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. At the same time, I also request a third reading at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u121	Thank you. Well, now I, as a senator, want to perform. I would like to say that I am pleased that this legislative error in the covid act, resulting from a certain haste, also from this haste which was here, in the Senate, well, we were rushing continually: quickly, quickly, quickly and quickly managed to repair. I will also say that I have been approached by a group of women on this issue and I have taken such measures, as a result of which Senator Kochan has made an amendment, and the committee and Senator Piecha... the whole committee has supported this amendment. In fact, we are removing the really horrible injustice that was caused by the covid law that was passed in good faith. The women who came to me... One of those women at the tourist office didn't lose a few hundred zlotys after she went on leave, she lost three thousand. There's been a situation. I think that this has affected at least a few thousand people, and I am pleased that we have succeeded in restoring certain principles of social justice, which we need to apply and we should keep an eye on. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing by Senator Magdalena Kochan. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to a legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u122	Yes, Mr. Senator. Thank you. According to my information, the content here isn't the same as the amendment we submitted yesterday, which is why we're going to... We want to analyze it, at least in our... This is not the same amendment, the content is not the same as it was passed on to the committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u123	And I thought it wouldn't be a problem anymore. Well, that's good. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Senator Kochan also requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Thank you. We proceed to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the metropolitan union in the Pomeranian voivodship. I would like to welcome the president of Sopot, Mr Jack Karnowski, and all other representatives of the local government. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 66 and the committee's report In print No 66 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A noble body of local governmentmen from Pomerania! You're Minister Chezernaker, and I welcome a very cordial, well-known sympathizer of the metropolis. I'm glad to see the Minister in the O.R. We are after the debates and after the earlier project. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a report to the Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on Local Government. The committees discussed the draft together and amended it at their meeting on 30 July. Of course, I request that this single project be adopted for the creation of a Pomeranian metropolitan area. The amendments which were adopted directly at the meeting were in line with the comments made by the representative of the Ministry of Development present in the Chamber. If you will allow me, I also have 2 such additional general comments for this report. Management of functional areas, variously called... In Silesia it was e.g. Municipal association of Upper Silesian Industrial Area. They are called different names, but no one can question functional compounds of a transcendence nature and problems that in this dimension these compounds solve. In Poland we have in practice a more than 20-year history of the functioning of metropolitan areas, although initially unnamed. We also have a several-year tradition of functioning of the Silesian and Zagłęgian metropolis. Let me talk about this longer, because right now, during the discussion, I have read the report on the Pomeranian metropolis. And all of the experiences that we have gathered on the occasion of the legislative work in the Senate a few months ago we adopted a project on the Łódź Metropolitan Area, showing one amazing thing: the enormous enthusiasm of local government officials who want to create their metropolitan areas, who present the position of their inhabitants, who know that this is an important tool to solve problems of a trans-regional nature. The results of the committee's vote also show that with this view, with this opinion about the need to create metropolitan unions in most senators agree. At the meeting we had 24 votes in favour and no votes against, two senators abstained, and the committees recommended this proposal. Of course, it is with the greatest pleasure on behalf of the joint committees that I submit a report with a positive opinion on the project, in particular thanking authors, i.e. the group of senators from the Pomeranian Voivodeship who prepared this project. I hope you don't mind if we finish our work soon, not only in the Senate, but also in the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Richard Świlski. Are there any questions? [[Voice from the room: No questions...]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u126	I would like to ask the rapporteur what the area of this proposed metropolitan union would be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u127	According to law, the metropolitan area is an area that residents want to participate in the creation of a given project. In accordance with the provisions concerning the first established metropolitan area. And these records are generally repeated in each subsequent project, also in the project concerning the creation of a Pomeranian metropolitan union. And in this case, the primary element is the communes of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, based, of course, on the tri-city arrangement of Gdansk, Gdynia and Sopot. But we also have declarations of interest in this initiative from e.g. Local government officials from the city of Elbląg. Metropolitan areas obviously do not have to overlap with 16 voivodships, because they are functional areas to solve specific problems, not due to the administrative division of the country. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u128	Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I have one question, but it's a little more elaborate. Art. 1 paragraph 5 provides that the boundaries of the metropolitan area may extend beyond the borders of the voivodship. And now various things are consulted at the stage of the appointment or the duration of this union, but only by the Seymik of Pomorskie Voivodship, possibly, e.g. in accordance with Article. 7, by the Pomeranian Voivodeship. There is no consultation or opinion by other seymics or other voivodships, and it is possible to expand the relationship beyond the borders of the Pomeranian voivodship. Why? Is it a deliberate omission of this opinion or an omission in the text of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u130	If the senator agrees... As far as this part is concerned, the final establishment of a metropolitan union is based on a specific procedure, consultation with residents, termination of this formula by a local authority. And in this case, as to why this part connected with the fact that this Pomeranian metropolitan union has a possible wider impact, I might ask if the senator agrees... I know that you know this issue best Senator Ryszard Świlski, who participated in the work on the ground and I also know that I should say the conditions of individual local authorities interested in joining the Pomeranian metropolitan union. Will the marshal agree to have the applicant's representative answer these questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u131	I agree, but at the moment when it's your representative's turn. So if any of your senators have any questions for Senator Kwiatkowski, ask them. And I'll be with you in a moment to speak to Senator Śvilski. Since there are no further questions, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants... [[We're at that point, so...]] But he is mentioned twice today because Senator Kwiatkowski was a representative of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Local Government. Good. In that case, Mr. Senator, I'll give you the floor without reading the whole formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm answering the senator's question. It is difficult to clearly write down this element, this issue that you have spoken of. Today Senator Kwiatkowski said about Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship, he said about Elbląg. Elbląg has always been the urban unit, which naturally carried to the Pomeranian voivodship, also historically, in communication, due to ease of access. Today, of course, we can say hypothetically. I'm saying, hypothetically. That it could also be other centres, not only urban ones, from other voivodships, which I would like to make such a hypothesis, could also want to join the Pomeranian metropolis. Then it is difficult to write it down, to make such an unambiguous record in this document. I think all the elements, I say so because you know perfectly well this bill... In this legislative proposal we have also raised issues related to the fact that in fact all these findings and opinions are also passed by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, and it seems that these issues at this level will also be settled. So it seems that at this point neither the omission of this record nor the deliberate omission of this record does not take place. We are more focused on the fact that today we do not know whether any conclusion for this reason, because of this law and in order to use this gate will appear.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u133	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u134	If I may, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to ask, because, as I understand it, you do not wish to comment on the intention of the projector, as to why it has been omitted, but this unfortunately raises far-reaching doubts. Why? Because 2 other metropolitan compounds One already existing, Silesian, and the other one was Łódź, in their mother's laws they did not have such a record, they did not allow a relationship to spread beyond the borders of the voivodship. Firstly, it is an interference in the basic administrative division of the country, but, secondly, the lack of an opinion of both the Sejm and the voivodeship from the area of the voivodeship, to which it is to spill, I would call it, the metropolitan union, gives rise to reasonable suspicions, and you have deepened it with your reply, that we do not want these opinions, we do not want to know what the neighbours think about such in a sense as to win battles or fight territory for the Pomeranian voivodship. This is, as I say, my opinion, and it is confirmed by these shortcomings in the bill. And as proof that this text is somewhat underdeveloped, I would like to quote one more phrase, namely Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The representative for the creation of a metropolitan union, hereinafter referred to as a proxy, is the president of the voivodship city. Beautifully crossed... The President of the Voivodeship City is the term, ladies and gentlemen, common. In capital letters... That means we're creating a function called the president of a voivodship city. Why not President Gdansk? Something's about to change, is Gdansk supposed to stop being a voivodship city? [[Voice from the room: Sopot is to be...]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are flowers from the text of this bill. [[Voice from the room: There was no question, so that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u135	I understand we've taken that as a statement. Please, Senator Zdrojewski, for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u136	I welcome the initiatives of self-governments who want to join together, cross certain boundaries and strengthen their potential. I am aware of what you just said to Senator Czerwiński as part of your comments on overcoming this border... That could always give you some doubt. It is important to me whether Elbląg has a chance to participate in any other metropolitan relationship if we reject this possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u137	I'm just saying... The answer is very briefly: no. Today we are talking about what, moreover, the rapporteur stressed that we are giving some kind of gate, opportunity, opportunity for development. Today we speak out loud about government documents... We want those cities that have lost their status as voivodships to be able to develop in such a way and not in any other way, to take advantage of the different development opportunities that the Pomeranian metropolis is, for example, in this case. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u138	Thank you very much. No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? We have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Paweł Chezernaker. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Dear Self-Governmentals with the President in charge! I have the honour to be in the Senate again this year and to answer questions about the position of the government, the position of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for the next draft law on the establishment of a metropolitan area. President Kwiatkowski, welcoming me, for which he very warmly thanked me, called me a well-known supporter of the metropolis. I would like to add here, Mr President, that if anything, he is a supporter of well-thought-out metropolises. And that's what I'd like to talk to you about. Firstly, in the context of the proposed law, I would like to refer to the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers, which assumes that, after 2020, we are now at the stage of conducting analyses, and we will work on further projects related to the possible establishment of further metropolitan areas, but based on the experience of the operation of the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. I'll remind you, it's the only relationship. At this point I would like to stress that the government sees all these initiatives concerning the creation of metropolitan unions that have recently emerged, concerning whether the Łódź union or the Pomeranian union. The government also appreciates local efforts in this area. However, we believe that these efforts should now focus on an analysis of the future functioning of these next metropolises, if they were to come up with an analysis based on these legal solutions that operate in Silesia. I believe that a debate is needed here. Such a coherent view of all of this is also needed. Because the senators who make these proposals, whether it's a Łódź or a Pomeranian proposal, or... We know that there are also other proposals in the public opinion that have not yet been submitted to draft laws, here I am thinking about Wrocław, Poznań, Szczecin. And in my opinion, And that's the government's position. These solutions should be analysed, but comprehensive, systemically, rather than as ad hoc, individually as is the case with those laws that appear. And now regarding the general comments on this bill... I think there are some differences between the functioning of the relationship in Silesia and the one that is presented here. In the justification, the project promoter states that the project is based on the current provisions of the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. Meanwhile, the union there is an association of municipalities. Here is a proposal for a law on the metropolitan union, which indicates that the union is an association of municipalities and districts. Same in the article. 1 paragraph A definition of the metropolitan union, which, according to the projectors, is an association of municipalities and districts characterised by strong functional links and the advancement of urbanization processes, located in a spatially coherent area, has been included. It is doubtful that the Pomeranian metropolitan union will be adapted to the specifics of the metropolitan area established for Silesia, which is characterised by the existence of strong urbanization processes, the high density of the population and the compact nature of the buildings. Upper Silesian metropolitan area is one of the best-developed functional areas. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that there is a need to adapt the planned solutions for the Pomeranian metropolis to the specific characteristics and nature of this area. In addition, the project developer made it possible, as was mentioned here in the discussion, to extend the boundaries of the metropolitan union, indicating that its area may extend beyond the borders of the voivodship. Well, it's a significant difference from the original version of the project. I don't know if the title of this bill has been changed during the Senate work. But the title indicates a metropolitan relationship in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. So there seems to be some inconsistencies here. Solutions concerning an area beyond the borders of the voivodship... In MSWiA's view, this is a significant difference from the original version of the project. This solution may give rise to doubts as to the identification of the competent supervisory authority at least. Well, because we have surveillance authorities on the ground at least At this stage of the project process, 2 voivodships. I would also like to draw attention to what one senator pointed out earlier. We are also talking about the Council of the Voivodship City, about the President of the Voivodship City. Well, I think that... of course, it probably wasn't the designers' idea, but in the case that this area goes beyond one voivodeship, I think, also the president of the other voivodship could be treated as president of the voivodship city. Like President Olsztyn. And in our view, such an ambiguous record in this law may indicate that any other president of a voivodship city could also participate in the establishment of a metropolitan area. In conclusion, I would like to say that, as a general rule, work is currently underway on the analysis of this issue in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration from the experience of the Silesian metropolitan area. And the ministry's position, the government's position is that these solutions for the future should be developed systemically for the whole state area, not as randomly as it is done in the case of the Metropolis or Pomeranian or Łódź. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay on the stand. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You started by saying that the government is behind smart solutions when it comes to metropolitan areas. Would you be wise if we graduated from the level of speech, to answer the following question as well? Tell me... You're talking about you being a government based on Silesian experiences, generally Silesian. Answer me the first question: do you know any conclusions yet? I just want to say that this debate took place in Gdansk. A representative of this union, Mr Grzegorz Kwitek, as I recall, presented such proposals. Do you even know these conclusions? Or are you going this way: we wait, we analyze, and in three years, we say? Is there an action plan? That's one thing. And now a detailed question, Minister, to this particularly wise question. You say that the Silesian specificity of high density is no match for the Pomerania specifics. Show me the logical link between the formation of the metropolis and the density of the population, coming out of the definition of the metropolitan area, the metropolitan area, the purpose for which it is called. Is density supposed to be a measure on which the vocation or absence of a metropolis, a metropolitan area depends? A measurer in terms of science and from the point of view of the government. That, of course, is not in the documents that we have. For these two questions... I've got another one, but... [[Voice from the hall: It's in the next pitch.]] ...it's on the next pitch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u142	First of all, I was talking about well-thought-out metropolises... [[Good.]] ...well thought out, wise. Because, let's just say, Senator... [[A higher degree of good thinking.]] Well thought out. At the moment we are analyzing this situation, which has been taking place in Silesia for nearly 3 years. The analysis is underway. And there are also analyses in this direction, so that, as I said, it is a uniform law, if there is a will to introduce further metropolitan areas, for the whole area of the country. Secondly, if you are referring to specific issues, I have taken this particular subject because it is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum that the body layer is based on the current provisions of the metropolitan union law in the Śląskie voivodship. I referred to the fact that, in the explanatory memorandum of this law, it is clear that these solutions are based on a specific, already existing solution, which, however, is different from the one discussed in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the last sentence of your statement, this main information about the Pomeranian metropolis you said that you were working on such a solution that a law would be passed, which would generally order the system of the Polish metropolis. If I remember correctly, such a bill was already passed six and seven years ago. Unfortunately, she was repealed. The intention of that law was just to prepare solutions that would be general for the whole of Poland. From this country, when you took power in 2015, you withdrew, and at the moment the Minister says that just such a law as it was repealed, probably a little different should be done, praised. I am, of course, in principle in favour of such solutions, and I believe that the laws should in principle be general and such as the ones that were passed many years ago. But that bill doesn't exist. Today, gentlemen, you are thinking of doing this and saying that you are gathering experience from the Silesian metropolis. But in order to really make this bill right, I mean. I want her to be good and include all of Poland... It seems that in a situation where we already have a law on the Upper Silesian metropolitan area, it would be worthwhile to adopt a law that regulates matters in a slightly different region, about another specifics, so here we are thinking about the Pomeranian metropolitan area. So, for the sake of this case, in order to prepare the General Act well, would it not be worth allowing the adoption of a law on the Pomeranian Metropolis, just about a different specific feature than that of Silesia? Then we could actually draw some general conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u145	There is also, let's say, a law on the Łódź Metropolis right now, isn't there? This Pomerania is the third in order, after Silesian and Łódź. I mean. This boat is in the procession at the moment. So I think that these rules, if they are to be actually processed, concerning the whole territory of the country, should be analysed, thoughtful and, above all, effective. Because the question is whether a metropolitan area could have been effectively established on the basis of the previous law. Right? Effectively, the metropolis could be established on the basis of this law of Upper Silesia. She's functioning. And I think that these different kinds of ideas about the functioning of other areas in the country and their specifics should also be taken into account. We are open to discussion, and I also had the opportunity and pleasure to talk to the President about the metropolis some time ago, and I also talked to the parliamentarians from Pomerania about the metropolis, so I know all these arguments, including those related to the functioning of local governments. I am pleased that such projects are being created because the aim of these projects is to achieve a better functioning in the area concerned. But, like I said, I'm... We already have a second draft of such a law in the Senate this year, perhaps another one is being prepared. I believe that this area of state should be regulated as described in the government document. And we want to talk about it, given the experience of the Silesian metropolis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u146	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Brejza in remote mode. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, you have said that you are a supporter of a system-based model law, which is why I would like to ask you about it. Have you started work at the Ministry on this project? Have you sent assumptions, questions, requests for opinions to the Union of Polish Metropolises, to the Union of Polish Cities? At what stage is this project you're talking about? And when are you going to refer this project to the Sejm? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u148	More specifically, starting with the first sentence that I have spoken today from this speaker, I will say that at the moment there are analyses of the functioning of the Silesian metropolitan area, this is also the result of the Government's Strategy for Responsible Development. There's no paperwork on the bill you're talking about here. Every time I spoke about it, I repeated that such a possible law would be the result of an analysis of the three-year operation of the Silesian metropolis, and these three years passed at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u149	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In part, the Minister has already answered... So I understand that you are waiting for an analysis, which means that you have no kind of access or knowledge about the conclusions of the functioning of the Silesian metropolis today. Once three years have passed, you will examine it, then, based on the experience of the Silesian metropolis, you will proceed to prepare a single project for the whole Republic, and after that we will be able to establish such metropolis on the initiative of the grassroots, on the initiative of local governments. Minister, please tell me if you have a schedule in the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy when it will be. Will that be in 2025 or 2023? As part of this strategy, you have accepted different dates of projects. Is there a date here when you say yes, you can do that? Because from this statement, Minister, it follows that if I am wrong, please correct me that it is necessary to tell the Polish authorities directly: stop working on metropolises, because there will not be any uprising. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u151	I'm going to repeat what I said six months ago here at the process of the Łódź Metropolitan Act. I believe that there is a need for debate on this issue and I welcome this debate. After all, this is an important issue for the functioning of local governments in the developing world, isn't it? The question of the metropolis or the theme of the metropolis is due to changes in the functioning of local governments. And, as I referred to the details of this law, so here is the question of the dependence of the voivodship self-government, in this case Pomorskie or Warmia-Mazury, from the functioning of the metropolis, which would possibly function outside the borders of one voivodship. So that I believe that this debate is necessary, natural, that the issue of the development of self-government is extremely important. And, as I said, the only date that is recorded in the Responsible Development Strategy is the end of 2020, i.e. after 3 years of operation of the Silesian metropolitan area. And I am convinced that this discussion is needed, it is important and that such a discussion will take place. If we were to assume as a state that these metropolises should arise in a few places in the country, then the issues of what they should look like and what principles should arise, I am convinced, are ahead of us. This discussion is ahead of us. And it's not like before us in 2025 or 2027, as you said. I think this discussion is ahead of us in the near future. Besides, we're not afraid of these discussions, we're not avoiding them, we're not missing them. Even though there will be a discussion on the functioning of schools in the last 2 weeks next Tuesday, within the framework of a meeting of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission. The debate on the funding of education by local governments is also about the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission next Tuesday. So we do not avoid these topics, and we certainly see the need to debate them. And I would like to say, in the end, here to explain: we are not working on the law, we are analysing issues of the Silesian metropolis. And if you, Mr. Senator, asked how to address local governments... I would appeal with such an appeal: let us wait, let us examine the Silesian experiences together, and we will wonder what to do next.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u152	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! For me it is a special and great joy, satisfaction with the fact that after many years of trying, we are working today in the Senate on a metropolitan law for the Pomeranian voivodship. Yes, I place particular emphasis on the words for the Pomeranian voivodship, because their sound is absolutely wider than the words "metropolia." It is really thinking not only about the area, but above all about the people and needs of people living in the area. Allow me to present in a brief presentation our path of inquiry to this day. The first and fundamental point is that all actions were of a nature, as the rapporteur said today, as the rapporteur, the bottom-up local initiatives and the socio-economic partners for the integration of metropolitan areas. We've always looked for common elements. We have been looking for what we have in common, which shows the strength of integration in every discipline of economic and social life. I'm just going to present a few events that confirm this theory. Already in 1991, the communal community of Redy Valley and Chylonki Valley was established to solve problems such as municipal waste from members of the union. The following years are the establishment of a metropolitan team and later the establishment of a Metropolitan Council of the Gulf of Gdansk. The debate on the need for metropolitan relations to be finalised has been taken up by the scientific community. The result was the publication of the Tricity Manifesto. The next step was to register the Metropolitan Communication Union of the Gulf of Gdańsk to integrate communication systems in Pomerania. It was then that local authorities took the financial burden of recapitalisation of the Rapid Urban Railway, which is the actual transport backbone not only of the agglomeration area, not only of the metropolitan area. During this period there has been a debate on how to carry out public tasks, with certain legal tools, often insufficient. Everyone's talking about it today. The idea of self-governments lying in the northern part of the voivodship to establish the association was emerging. The second idea was to establish the Association of the Gdansk Metropolitan Area. The integration efforts resulted in the fact that the local authorities currently operate in the formula of the Metropolitan Area of Gdansk, Gdynia, Sopot. It's a real job for over 1.5 million people. This, too, was asked today about the area of nearly 7 000 km2. This part of our country is a strong centre in the Baltic Sea area. The Minister spoke about the specifics of Silesia, I refer to the specifics of the area in which we live. And here we come to the most important point, to accomplish public tasks. We have taken action on the adoption of the 2030 strategy. We have developed a transport and mobility strategy. The strategy of integrated territorial investment has allowed it to become an area managing authority in the implementation of the regional operational programme. The discussion on solutions to improve and protect the environment has contributed to the adoption of a low-carbon economy programme. The adoption by the High Senate of the 2030 spatial planning plan in 2016 has been the basis for building a strategy for the metropolitan union. Here I will address the words of the Minister, because this is a fundamental issue when it comes to enlisting in the Government Strategy for Responsible Development. In the document quoted by the Minister, it is said that I am now going to quote "extenuating work on regulating issues relating to the formation of metropolitan unions." Our efforts to establish a legal metropolis in Pomerania are the implementation of the indications contained in the report of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, where it is very clear that the metropolitan structure safely increases the effectiveness of planning and reducing the negative impact of suburbanisation, which is so much said. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, we know the needs of the people of our region. Over the past few years, we have been running joint public procurement for energy, gas, fuel purchases. The labour market is orbiting the common action, and thus Synchronization of needs and employers, and employees. The idea of the civil budget has been permanently included in the calendar of local government activities. I wouldn't be me, and I'm saying it with a smile on my face. If I hadn't mentioned the big investment event, the groundbreaking investment event in Pomerania, the creation of the Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway. This is really the first railway investment since the end of the war. I stress this, led by the voivodship government, where a new railway system was carried out. The Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway recently celebrated the fifth anniversary of the uprising. Just so you know, at that time we brought in 15 million passengers, we drove by, we crossed 9 million kilometers. It is a revolutionary solution, which for such small towns, because it is worth telling about it and about it I started talking about, which for Kościerzyna, Stężyca, Kartuz has created opportunities for completely different development. Let me just remind you that Pomorskie is the leader among the voivodships in the calculation of the Railway Transport Office. According to this information, the resident in Pomerania makes an average of 26 trips a year and the average in the country is 8.7 trips. We are an absolute leader in this respect. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the Metropolitan Act for Pomerania is not a matter of time, it is not an idea to solve momentary problems and meet momentary needs, this bill is a tool to meet the challenges we face. Simple possibilities of action have been It's really used. If we want to meet the challenges, be ambitious, we need legislation that allows us to develop. I believe that we will be able to adopt a law that will enable us to respond to environmental changes, changes in demographic trends, and respond to changes in cities and villages' physiognomy. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, all of Pomerania is waiting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! And of course, Dear Representatives of the Government! The Minister has just spoken about key issues in the sense of the decision that we are about to make. I will consciously not refer to the boundaries of any metropolitan area at all. The boundaries of the metropolis are determined by the inhabitants who are in the area. There is a description of the procedure, there are public consultations, resolutions of the relevant municipalities' councils. And it is not Senator Świlski, Kwiatkowski or Igrekowski, not even Minister X or Y, it is the residents who decide whether they want to co-create the metropolis or not to co-create it. But the Minister raised a very important point, because in fact between the lines the government says this: only an analysis of the operation of the first metropolis will give us an answer to the question whether the metropolitan areas in Poland should develop. Why is it so important? This dilemma has already been resolved by experts. All experts around the world agree that in the 21st century the fastest growing areas around the world will be metropolitan areas. All forecasts say: in 2050, more than 66% of the world's population will live in urban areas, and in such parts of the world as Poland, this ratio will be significantly higher in European countries. And my statement absolutely does not have a political context, the best government will not solve all problems of local Poland, but every government has a duty to create such tools so that residents and local governments can solve their problems themselves. Minister talks about the need to assess the functioning of the Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that such an assessment must be carried out in order to know whether the practice of action is what we would expect. The Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis is more than 40 cities and municipalities, an area of more than 2.5 thousand km2, over 2 million 300 thousand inhabitants and more than 240 thousand companies, which produce 8% Polish GDP. But it's more important. We've had three years of operation of this metropolis. And how's the metropolis doing? In this discussion we had in the Senate, there was a suspicion that it wasn't that the metropolis was doing just because it was getting money from the state budget. Let's look at the numbers. Upper Silesia - Zagłębiowska Metropolis: participation in PIT in 2017, 7 million, in 2018, already according to the statutory provisions, 348 million, but later in principle unchanged, because in 2019 375 million and in 2020 decrease to 374 million. But municipalities, cities in Silesia themselves are responsible for whether the metropolis works well because they make voluntary decisions about contributions that they pay to the metropolis. How's it look? Contributions from municipalities forming Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis in 2017 6 million in 2018, 32 million 700 000 in 2018, 496 million in 2019 and 561 million in 2020. Transport subsidies. Ticket receipts start from scratch between 2017 and 2018. In 2019 there are 220 million proceeds from tickets sold, this year, this is the plan, 237 million. What does that mean? That the metropolis, which ran with a budget of less than 400 million, now has a budget of 1 billion 249 million. And not because the government gave, just because the self-governments creating this metropolis saw its potential, that it effectively solves the problems that are down there on the spot. I'm talking about this example because it's not like the local government is reaching out and saying government, give it to me. Of course they have increased influence from PITs, but from PITs that are collected from their residents. Nobody expects a donation. These are the money of their residents, those whose problems are solved on the spot. And now I am. Do we have an alternative? Do we have an alternative? We look at, for example. on the Silesia issue, which you are about to judge. In the last two weeks I have been on a forum in Katowice, on a forum in Karpacz, I have talked to local government. They see that such a situation as a pandemic shows that there are situations where the government will not help, on the contrary, the government will give less than before, and they must learn to build such mechanisms themselves, so that, when the testing time comes, they will pass the test. I don't assume the will of the self-government, but... if you have liquidity problems, for example. Now, after the pandemic of Coronavirus, you'll be looking for savings first in reducing funds transferred to local governments. Let us create mechanisms within which they will not depend on the government and will be able to solve their own problems. In Silesia you have a huge problem, we have, all of us, as Poles. What to do to create social shock absorbers for changes in mining? They will not be planned well by the government, better planned by the presidents of Świętochłowic, Rybnik, Katowice, Bytomia, Sosnowiec, because they know these problems better. The government can introduce instruments and make decisions: we close this mine or not, we transfer more money to invest in glass or not. But these self-governments will create social programs on how to make use of those people who will lose their jobs in mining, and in the case of mining, it is also about their families. The boat, the city that I represent, has been waiting for the bill for several months, is already waiting with a really big concern. Why hasn't work been started on a project that left the Senate in February and is waiting in the Sejm? The Łódź is a city that lost a lot in transformations after 1989. There is, for example. the issue of the collapse of the light industry, which has not yet risen. Łódź is a city with the most depreciated urban tissue in the sense of municipal resources, Łódź is the fastest aging city in Poland. In two years' time, people over the age of sixty-five will be 1/4 of the population in Łódź and almost 40% in 2050. It's going to translate into the number of residents. Łódź is the fastest depopulation city in Poland The population could be below 0.5 million as early as 2050. Unfortunately, it is also, as I said, the oldest city, which due to the nature of the building has a huge problem with transport, with communication, with traffic jams, with the municipal economy. Łódź is one of the largest tenement houses in Poland and has almost 40,000 municipal apartments on its management board. Several thousand premises are uninhabited because they are not renovated as part of area revitalization. Will the government solve these problems? Only in such a way that through the Łódź metropolis he will give the tools so that the Łódź can handle these problems on its own. Besides, the boat isn't the only one with that problem. In Łódź and near Łódź there are the longest tram lines in Europe. The line to Ozorkowa has several dozen kilometers, the line to Pabianic... The line to Ozorkowa will not be restored unless there is a metropolis. Why? For a very simple reason. Following the route to the town of Ozorkow there are rural municipalities such as the municipality of Zgierz or the municipality of Ozorków, and they have no money for infrastructure as expensive as infrastructure in rolling stock. And only metropolitan money can solve this problem. That is why we are looking forward to the rapid process of the draft law on the Łódź metropolis. We're looking at local government officials from Pomerania... They have the blood silver of the whole of Poland in the form of ports, but in fact we should all be ashamed I don't direct those words to one government. For how problems have been solved for many years, e.g. good communication of the port in Gdynia. They didn't have to wait for government decisions. These decisions could have been made within the metropolitan area much, much earlier, without having to wait for what would come from Warsaw. I'd like to say very strongly today... The worst thing that could happen is if the government were to say in a moment: Upper Silesia - Zagłębiowska Metropolis failed the exam. I've already talked about numbers, budget parameters. That's just two brief facts here. The metropolis, which functions, as I said, very briefly, because just a few years ago, now participates in dozens of projects and invests in rail, tram transport. Because the same problem as in Łódź is also in Silesia. More, Górnośląsko-Załęgian Metropolis prepares, together with local government officials, city presidents, because formally it cannot submit its own applications, several dozen applications for funding under the program During the implementation or planned construction or modernisation of 240 km of railway lines in Silesia. Note that local government officials want to remove certain problems from government shoulders. You can't solve them all by yourself, trust them, because there are people in small local countries who know the problems of these areas and know how to solve them. I firmly believe that you know this in the government and that it will be politically decided to use the most effective tools in these major challenges, such as the fight against the economic consequences of the Coronavirus pandemic. The Senate is reaching out to the government. Let's adopt the Pomeranian Metropolis Act as soon as possible, adopt the Łódź Metropolis Act, which for several months has not been known what it is waiting for in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Dear Self-Governmentians! Minister! High Senate! In the case of Pomerania, the government, parliament, every public authority always asks for an extended framework for the cooperation of local authorities for the benefit of local communities, inhabitants of the territory concerned... The public authority should applaud, encourage, and, in the case of the Senate, decide to adopt a resolution on the adoption of the law... I think that this is exactly what the Senate will do when deciding on the Łódź metropolis. A few reflections of the Pomerania citizen. I think all the countries that visit the Pomerania, the Tri-City... It is a beautiful place on earth, which in many respects is unique, not only in terms of natural, urban, cultural, but also in terms of historical symbolism, which is important, in terms of the attitude of the inhabitants in relation to the important challenges of history, patriotic rites, solidarity, which plowed the Polish system and changed the face of Europe. It all matters, because these are events that have built the identity of the inhabitants of the Tricity and maybe the whole of Pomerania, which is a socially complex creation. Because after the war especially Gdansk and Sopot were the residences of people from Kresów, from Vilnius, Grodnoszczyzna, Lviv. But Pomerania is also a place where Kaszubi and Kociewiata live for centuries, inhabitants of Powiśla, Żuław. Over the years of experience and cooperation, even in difficult moments of Polish history, they created an identity that resulted in a common desire to solve local problems. This is such a special awareness resulting from the experience that... I think, on the basis of the fact that social activity in Pomerania, the activities of NGOs, local organizations, turnout or election decisions, which for many years, since the beginning of the reform of local government, the most important reform that has undoubtedly resulted in the subjectivity of local communities, and is at the moment the pillar of Polish democracy... These election decisions, which once again confirm a mandate for not only the presidents of the Tricity... He sits with us here, in the hall of Jacek Karnowski, a long-term self-government officer who receives, as many other Pomeranian self-government officials, a mandate precisely because they have been able to cooperate for the sake of the common good for several decades since the beginning of the local government. And we today should appreciate, thank and adopt a law that will give better tools to carry out public tasks, which are more than one independent entity of this community. When you enter Pomerania and the Tri-City agglomeration, it is only through GPS, satellite navigation or if you are watching closely, you will notice where there are borders between cities. Well, starting from the west, when we enter Wejherów, through Reda, Rumia, Gdynia, Sopot, Gdansk, Pruszcz Gdański and Tczew, we drive one big, urbanized, built-up territory that has its problems that it tries to solve, and it does quite well, but requires our support. I appeal to the Senate, and I firmly believe that we will make the right decision today and we will pass a bill that, for many such people... I am, I think, a classic example of people from the Tricity or Pomerania: born and raised in Gdansk, living in Sopot, and working, having a constituency in Gdynia, conducting activity in Kashubach and Kociewi. There are hundreds of thousands of people like that in Pomerania. And I think they all expect that the Senate, the public authority, the parliament will allow them even better to meet their challenges and needs of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u158	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Wczyła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! With administrative division, it's kind of like school education. It is compulsory and implemented in school activities, and young people whose needs go beyond the mandatory framework are looking for other opportunities to meet their needs and to shape their development. For this purpose, various institutions, associations, private schools, workshops, circles of interest are created in which you can shape your development. Similarly, High Senate, it is with local governments. In addition to the tasks and competences covered by individual levels of self-government, they can meet their needs and shape their development in other configurations than the established administrative division. One example is the connection to the metropolis. Metropolitanization is now becoming a determinant of development. It's like this whether we like it or not. It is the metropolitan union that is the institution in which such challenges can be met. In contrast to local structures, membership is voluntary. This is due to the deep conviction that certain tasks are easier to carry out together within the community set up for this purpose. Metropolises affect a much larger area than an area within their borders. They also provide opportunities for implementing solutions that would be a problem for smaller cities and municipalities. It is in order to meet such needs that the possibility of establishing metropolitan unions was created. I'm going back to the educational example. Such a relationship is equivalent to institutions that extend the development opportunities of a child. Even if such an institution is set up in a school building, it does not have to limit its activity only to its students, it can be open to the needs and ambitions of students from other schools. I think that if the union is formed in this form, it will be a good field for the Minister of Chiefnacker to gather the experiences useful in the work on the bill harmonising the formation of metropolitan unions. The same situation occurs in the case of the creation of grounds for establishing a metropolitan union of Pomeranian voivodship. It is a response to the needs of municipalities and powiats affected by the Metropolitan Area (Gdansk) and Gdynia (Sopot). In general, its activities relate to the Pomeranian voivodship, but it is open to the needs of local governments outside this voivodship. As an Elbląg resident, I'm very happy for you. Elbląg is linked in various ways to the Tri-City metropolitan area. These are transport, educational, cultural or, above all, labour market related links. The Metropolitan Pomeranian Railway, mentioned by Senator Richard Świnski, reaches Elbląg. The Vistula flood case. I don't know if you know this, but the borders of the voivodships run in the waters of this water. How do you imagine water management, water quality separately on the part of the water belonging to the Pomeranian Voivodeship and separately on the part of the water belonging to the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship? Boundaries cannot be a limitation in management or in the care of water quality. I think it's obvious. In my opinion, there is no conflict here with the fact that Elbląg lies within the borders of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship. I, looking from a perspective of 21 years, because I have been a resident of Elbląg for so many years, fought for it to be a city of Pomeranian Voivodeship.I say today that Elbląg would not benefit as much in Pomeranian Voivodeship as it did in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. The administrative presence in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship gave Elbląg the opportunity to benefit from EU funds on the basis of which investments worth PLN 1 billion were generated. I see no other voivodship in which Elbląg would have such development opportunities. The Metropolitan Union is designed to achieve objectives other than those that we pursue in the context of administrative division, and therefore to suggest, as one senator said, that it is a picking up of local governments of another voivodship, is a suggestion Not about that. These are completely different areas of action. It is good that the Act does not limit itself to the borders of the voivodship, opening up the possibility of sanctioning existing and creating new links within the framework of the Pomeranian metropolitan union without creating an administrative barrier. High Senate, I am convinced that this bill will be well received by the Elbląg community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Guests! A lot of wise words have been said about this bill. Discussion on functional areas, including metropolitan areas, has been ongoing in Poland for 20 years. I've been in this discussion for so long. I was in the process of creating those projects that Parliament adopted. And I will remind you that almost exactly 6 years ago was adopted a law on metropolitan areas addressed to all those in Poland who would like to benefit from this benefit. That law was only missing from the implementing regulation, and this regulation only concerned the model of the proposal. That bill could have been implemented, that's what I'm saying with full responsibility. The one that was created 3 years ago, apart from the fact that she was losing time by 3 years, was slightly different from that in my opinion. The main difference was only that it was limited to the Silesian Voivodeship. There were other differences I could talk about, but maybe this isn't a good time and place for this. I urge you not to waste any time. Because development opportunities are being reduced at the moment. This can also be seen on the example of an existing metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. Therefore, either now, basically immediately, there should be a framework law... It was better to start with her, I admit it, but we haven't started. Therefore, it is now necessary to act consistently: either immediately a framework law, or the adoption of those Episcopal laws which the Senate initiates. The conclusions of how the metropolis works in the Silesian Voivodeship are known. Three years is really quite enough, it can be summed up. These are not only positive conclusions. There are also proposals that could affect the amendment of that law and extend the tools, not limit them, but extend them. Yesterday, a report of regional accounting chambers was presented in the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, including. from the implementation of the 2019 budget by local government units. This was based on a publication that has 400 pages and is a Bible that can draw very far-reaching conclusions. This concerns the state of local finances and the functioning of the Silesian metropolitan union, which was included there. It seems that in this voivodship the relationship helps, but it will not save the situation, because the cities of the voivodship of Śląskie are in an increasingly worse situation. There are legal restrictions on solving problems that arise in metropolitan areas that cannot be addressed, for example. Communal relationships. This is only allowed by the Metropolitan Act. That's the conclusion we have, they're obvious. And if Pomerania is to continue to develop rapidly, these legal barriers must be removed. It's not storming anything, it's helping, so there's no reason to wait to unlock these barriers. And we need to encourage cooperation. Fortunately, Polish authorities cooperate well with each other, the example of Pomerania, but also Silesia indicates this. But since there is a bottom-up initiative, it needs to be supported rather than inhibited. I think delaying is a mistake. Let me repeat: legal tools are needed to improve development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u162	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Minister! If you don't mind, I'll change my speech and address it to the Minister. Minister, you are a man before whom all your life, in terms of activities for the sake and for the good of the Republic. And one of the important elements of good work in every country, but we are in Poland, so I am talking about Poland It is the respect of local governments. I'm not talking about love for self-government anymore. Although I, as a self-government officer, have such love. Therefore, Minister, as Senator Śvilski said here... He says it's a joyous day. I'm sorry to say I hope I'm wrong, Minister. That when I listened to you, I thought this was one of my saddest days of my third term in the Senate. Because what did I hear today? I'm just gonna say this so you don't wrap it around politically: do it yourself, do it, but it would be best if you didn't make these metropolises for now. Why don't you do it? That's what I've been trying to find out from the Minister. And what does the Minister agree with us? Well, we're analyzing, well, we don't know the results of these analyses yet, or actually there, in Silesia, it's a little different density than in Pomerania, so I don't know if these conclusions are gonna be such an appropriate one that fits Pomerania, because sometimes there's less density... Well, there were other things I stopped asking about later, but the minister said it. I understand that you are in a difficult situation, but you should simply say in a man's way: listen, we are trying to centralise the state and no government will develop on these issues concerning the implementation of basic municipal services for the inhabitants of your territory, because the central state is working better! In discussions that I sometimes deal with politicians I'm just saying that to tell you in general. We, the United Right, want a unitary state, and you want a district state! Suppose it rains like this. And then, you know, these metropolitan areas are kind of the beginning of the neighborhood. So Krzywousty's starting to emerge here somewhere. I would like to say that the definition of a unitary state includes a centrally controlled state and is based on strong local authorities. Yeah, it's a unitary state, too. And Poland should be such a country. This is a sad day, Minister, because when you talk about the fact that, as part of the Responsible Development Strategy, we have written that after 3 years we will be analyzing... I would like to say that you have written a lot of things down in this Strategy for Responsible Development. I don't want to remind you any more that this isn't combined with things like electric cars or other things that have been written down there. I'd rather you just say it manly. Because maybe people are working unnecessarily on good projects related to metropolitan areas that you have another idea for Poland. And then we'll argue. And so you didn't even give us hope that the Pomeranian Metropolitan Zone would rise. If you could just give me a little hope, then... Well, hope dies last. But this one died here today. And I think we need to forget about this Łódź area... Well, thank God it worked out and it's Silesian. You say you have to learn from your experience. Well, it was raining here, from that podium. Minister, are we creating a new kind of circle? Is that what we're doing? Because metropolitan relationships, metropolitan areas exist in many countries and this gives experience, knowledge, practice. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski quoted here... What do you want to learn from this experience? Probably the way it is. the proportional effect of compaction on the size of the metropolitan area. Or that kind of thing. However, knowledge and experience in this area are lacking only the draft of this framework law, which will give an opportunity to active local governments and people living in such areas who want to create metropolitan areas. And it occurred to me, I remembered that once, many, many years ago, one of the professors taught us what a metropolitan area is, and I asked him about boundaries, what is the limit, whether it's an administrative limit. And he said so quickly, because if they ask us that question, it's like it's unscientific, it's simple to say... Then he said: listen, this is a simple thing, the metropolitan area is where apart from technical infrastructure, road, rail, buildings, urban planning and others is an area very important, namely the area of human capital. And you can be a resident of a big city, and mentally you can be a provincial. The metropolitan area is where people have an open mind, open to common goals and solving common problems. So these are not the strict administrative boundaries of the individual, but, as I said, a vast area, from technical infrastructure to thinking. Therefore, Minister, I would very much like you to be a advocate of good ideas for Poland. We don't want any political idea here. We want people living in a given area to be given the opportunity not to get support from the government... If the government, no matter what, doesn't help, at least don't bother. And if you want to read about the lessons that come from the existence of the metropolitan area in Silesia, they are already there. At the seminar held in Gdansk, the conclusions have already been reached. They do not differ from those that people have drawn in other Western European countries, especially at a time when such relationships were formed. These conclusions really do not differ. Therefore, all we need is courage and determination. Have the courage to give people, governments the opportunity to act, to solve problems that are starting to go beyond the borders of cities today. And now 2 quotes, 2 speeches from this seminar, which took place in Gdańsk, Minister, especially to you. Mr. President Ratch, as president of a big city, said yes... I don't know why... Is that funny, Minister? [[Voice from the room: Smile slowly.]] Oh, well, if you're smiling because you understand what I'm saying, that's very cool. Minister, President Szczurek said that there would be no harmonious development without the cooperation of close neighbouring municipalities. Simply simple reserves of many municipalities in Poland in the sense of the area end. A new era opens, a new situation: time to solve macro problems. We as self-governments have solved problems of curved roads, sewers, such things, other things almost already in Poland. Today comes the time to solve other problems. And now to confirm the validity of this thesis by Mayor Mirosław Chyła of Pelplin, whom I cordially encourage you to hear. The question was whether the big cities were draining the labour market. Well, they do. We can watch the inhabitants of small towns wander in such a way that, as I say, uncontrolled, without any idea to large centres. We can look into it. Then, when we are a metropolis, this drain of the market will not occur, and if it does, it will also proceed the other way. Access to cultural goods, values when we're together... I'm not gonna do all this. He mentioned it here, but it's all available. This shows that such solutions are not only for large cities, they largely serve small cities...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u164	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I just want to draw your attention to the man who's talking to Marshal Borusewicz. Excuse me, sir, there's no custom in the Senate to sit in the senator's seat or walk in the courtroom. There's a guest area over there. Honor the good customs of the Senate. Okay? [[Voice from the room: Okay. I'm sorry.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u165	I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. To conclude, I will refer to the strategy of responsible development. Minister, I keep my fingers crossed so that the Metropolis project is the most successful project within the framework of a responsible development strategy. Just please, briefly, take the knowledge that is, take the experiences that are, and sit with local governments, as Senator Świlski described it. The experience of creating thoughts, such joint action in Pomerania exists for many years. These are the experiences of those self-governments who sit here. So please just sit down and write a framework law. Why is this so important? Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. That's when. There were laws here about a complete change in the judicial system, it was us, ladies and gentlemen, who did it in one day, not to mention one night. And here are three years of analysis. When there was a network of hospitals, we said, "Listen, this is such an important undertaking. Let's do it in one voivodeship in the north, one in the south, let's draw conclusions and implement it in a year or two years. No, it has to be done quickly. That was the answer. This is the only project, the only field where three years are observed and acquired knowledge, which is common knowledge in all developed countries of the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, room 217... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I also share the impression that my predecessors have communicated that we are disappointed that the government is not taking advantage of the chance to rebuild trust between central and local government, because such an opportunity exists and projects of this kind should meet with a positive response. We didn't actually hear a compelling argument. The argument that the Upper Silesian or Silesian metropolis is based on cities and not on powiats, and here there is a difference between it and the Pomeranian union, is not an argument, because each of us knows that Upper Silesia is the most urbanized area, and all other metropolises will have a complex character. Well, we didn't get any information on the government's schedule on the case either. There are still two strong arguments to take a serious and positive look at such initiatives. First of all, the characteristic of the evolution of civilized countries, of our circle, of European countries is the path to flexibility. And this is a road that means not a weak center, but a more flexible country. France is probably the only country that is strictly unitary, which is still very centralised, but for example. In recent months, she has set up a special agency for spending and operating European funds, including those that will fight the epidemic, with merami on the board and a member of the opposition at the head of the Trust Board. This is a testimony to thinking in an emergency: we share our trust and share our responsibility. May it not be that the government will come for a request in a situation of misfortune, because a wise Pole reacts in advance. The second argument is COVID. In a situation of struggle in which we expect to have to conduct non-standard policies, we should open ourselves to the local government. Especially since the center is safe. We know that this relationship will not arise, even on the basis of this project, without the decision of the Council of Ministers. The bill itself assumes that the union is implemented by decision of the Council of Ministers, not by decision of the legislative authority, without the executive authority. So there's no danger here. If the government is talking about a strong and efficient country, there's a great field to play. Quality of health care, quality of education... Well, it must be made clear that the latter is the sphere of fiction, exposed by the results of the matriculation, by the practice of mass tutoring as a necessary way of pursuing good prom results and good universities. A strong country, a country that wants to identify itself outside with real efficiency, should address this rather than show a lack of confidence in the local government. There is also an ideological argument: regional thought came out of Pomerania and was strictly patriotic. Such a great promoter of the concept of regionalization of Poland was Lech Bądkowski, who thought about the experience of the 1930s, from how the sanation has degraded Polish public life, without trusting local government, and was a constant promoter of the regional idea, but thought of as strengthening the state. It was a belief that regionalisation, not federalization, gives power to the state. All the more flexible relationships undertaken by cities, powiats, local government units of voivodships are not a threat, but an opportunity. And I hope that you will think about it, without waiting for the necessity, when it will happen to us in a misfortune, or we will not be able to act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests are gathered! After my speech there will be no applause, I am prepared for this, but here we have to talk about both sides of the medal, the medal, the text of which is this project. First line. They tried here, in quotes, to slap the government that it didn't care about self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, take care of local governments in Poland, it means taking care of all local authorities, not just a certain group of chosen ones. We're about to get to the evidence. I live in a small town in the Opole Voivodeship, which will never be part of the area or metropolitan union, and I will lose on this bill, my neighbours too. The government should take care of such self-governments, too. And a note about the text of the bill. In fact, it's probably some standard text that has been left apologized for an expression that maybe shouldn't be in the High House. It's pretty sloppy for the Pomeranian Voivodeship. Well, if we find the wording "President of the Voivodeship City" in the text... I mean, it's specific. This is about President Gdansk. You should have read the text and put this President Gdansk here. If you add the counties to the municipalities that are to be part of the metropolitan union, this must be done consistently everywhere, i.e. not only talk about the municipalities' councils, but also about the municipalities' councils. Finally, if you are suggesting or assuming the possibility of growing a metropolitan union outside the area of Pomeranian Voivodeship, first of all, the title of such a law should be different, second, it should be consistently described. So there should also be opinions here, whether they are seymists interested in voivodships or voivodships, and this is not in this project. Yeah, but theoretically, there's more to it than that. A more serious matter concerns the principles on which this law is based. I'm only going to express my own point of view here, private. Well, you are trying to introduce what was at some point protested by the general population of Poland, namely the so-called. The diffusion and polarisation model of development, that is, let's help a bigger one, and how are you doing? In quotation marks They'll feed it, they'll share it with the smaller ones. Yes, let's speak in plain language. The word "polarization" is more of a language of physics, like "difusion." Ladies and gentlemen, this might be a way of developing the country, but we say that we should rather take care of the even development of individual areas, not helping the richest ones who are doing just fine on their own... How do we know that? Yeah, after people vote with their legs. They move from the province to the richest areas. So we're still supposed to help them? Such expressions were used here: the measure of progress and development, respect for the rights of the local government, strong local governments. As I said: if strong, then all, if respect for the rights of the local government, then also respect for the rights of the local government, it is also a local government. How is it that in the tasks of the metropolitan union we observe a point concerning the development of the voivodship road network in the area of the union? Who's building the voivodship roads? It's a simple question. Do you take away the powers of the regional government or do you give them away or protect them? It's self-government, too. Yeah, but, like, the emancipation of what's going on in this bill isn't a matter of assignment. Because these can always be grouped in such a way that it is possible to create inter-city, communal and district relationships, associations, agreements. There are a lot of opportunities for local government units to get together. Nobody's interfering with these units joining us. But there's art. 57, I think it's crucial for this bill, because apart from the fact that it's a tribute... We are now talking about the income of the metropolitan union, and I am saying this for those who do not know this law. In addition to the fact that there is a tribute to municipalities and districts forming part of the union... It can be understood, it is the will to enter, it is the will to cooperate, well, we are giving to the tasks that we want to carry out together, our income. But there's additional income here. Art. 57, the share of the metropolitan union in income tax receipts from individuals, etc. in the years after the year of creation... So every full year of the relationship, that's 5%. Well, anybody would've wanted to get an extra 5%. These 5% He won't go to the joint fund, to the town of Opole. Why? I have a question: why do you want to build the power of the communal union in Pomerania at the expense of the town of Opole? He'll do great if he's needed and necessary. Nature hates vacuum. Give up the art. 57, then we'll see if your intentions are pure. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this bill really... Maybe not so much to divide Poland again administratively because it's too much to say But it is to create some distinguished enclaves outside the current administrative division. Maybe they'll grow faster. But will this result in a faster development of the whole of Poland, its entire territory, sustainable development? I have a very big concern that this is not going to happen. And that's why I'm voting against this bill. [[Voice from the room: So no applause...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u170	Excuse me, we're having procedural problems. Mr. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, 5 minutes, second performance. [[Voice from the room: 4.]] [[The voice from the room is four because one minute, Mr. Marshal, it's already gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to convince Senator Czerwinski where he's making a mistake in his analysis. The small municipalities of the metropolitan area benefit most from metropolitan unions. It is not that the metropolis is needed by Gdansk, Gdynia or Sopot. Gdansk, Gdynia and Sopot are doing great without the metropolis. The metropolis is needed by Pelplin, the New Court of Gdansk, Wejherow, Krokowa, Karwieńskie Błotom etc. They're the ones who benefit from it. What are the advantages of the operation of Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis? They're mostly in transport. 'Cause that's the main thing. Less administrative costs of transport organisation, proportionally higher in the smallest municipalities. A common fare, i.e. the possibility of traveling on one ticket throughout the area. Is this what a Katowice resident gets? No. This is what the Upper Łazik inhabitants gain, who reach Katowice on one ticket. Optimum use of connecting centres, important for the inhabitants of small towns, who reach large towns outside large cities. In our reality, it is the small municipalities that deliver the inhabitants from the villages to the center and further to the cities of the strict center of the metropolis. The argument is also that in addition to the municipalities of the Upper Silesia-Zędębie Metropolis The only one today that we can draw conclusions from. It provides communication services to neighbouring communities, which voluntarily transferred their tasks to it because it turned out that they would not solve them themselves. Yeah, these municipalities get 5%. participation in the collected PIT tax, but residents of these municipalities. Does that mean they're being taken from someone else? No. The tasks of a balanced development of the whole state are the tasks of the government. Pelplin is not responsible for the even development of the whole country, taking care of Widawa in Lublin. The government is responsible for this. What's more, the government is even doing it. There is a special package of actions addressed to less developed areas and in the National Regional Development Strategy 2030 there are specific measures for these disadvantaged communities, in terms of their level of development. But this is not what metropolitan areas are used for, because they are a voluntary association of cities and municipalities that meet formal requirements and want to develop a metropolitan area and municipalities that are part of it. In conclusion, the analysis in which we say that the metropolis is taking something else is completely wrong. Metropolis gives those who take the task of working together and working together. Is the act sloppy? Mr. Senator, you chose the formula and repealed the 2015 Framework Act. Today we're doing bypass. Everyone needs to rewrite the metropolitan law for the new areas, because you have repealed the 2015 law, saying, look at the transcripts of the Seym meetings. That a better formula is to adopt a legislative act for each metropolis separately. You chose this formula. And the last element is the diffusion-polarization model. Let's not talk about imaginary models, let's talk about specific problems that need to be solved. The government solves the problems of disadvantaged municipalities using the tools it has and local governments solve the problems of less developed municipalities in areas that are voluntarily composed of municipalities that decide to do so. And it is not by chance that local government officials from smaller municipalities are here, not the larger ones, because they know that the metropolis solves their problems more effectively, not the problems of large cities that are part of the metropolis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u172	Thank you very much. And a second speech, five minutes, Mr. Senator Ryszard Świlski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I must address the inhabitants of Opole. I want to make it clear that the Pomeranian metropolitan law does not work in any way. I stress: in no way "To the detriment of the people of Opole or any place in our country. It is not true that the adoption of this resolution in any way affects the inhabitants of the municipality in which you live. You say, Mr. Senator, simply not true. It's not true that when we talk about funding a metropolis... In this law it is clear and clear that the financing of these public services, which will be carried out by the metropolitan area and which, in fact, it does, will actually be from the tax of the inhabitants of this metropolitan area. Not by means of inhabitants living in Mazovia, Wielkopolska, but by those who participate in this metropolitan work. That's one thing. Senator Kwiatkowski just raised the question... And in this Chamber, as he said, there are representatives of local authorities of small cities, who are actually beneficiaries of changes in metropolitan centres. I don't know if you know, Mr. Senator, that just a little while ago, six and seven years ago, from Kościerzyna trains only went to Gdynia. They've been carrying, they've been saying it's such a glass ceiling. Only 40,000 passengers. After the construction of the Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway, which consisted among others. the city of Gdańsk through the fact that it gave the construction of the railway network land, the value of which was then approx. PLN 50 and 60 million, from Kościerzyna to Gdynia drives 100 and 120 thousand people today. In this way, by such an investment, carried out, as I said earlier, by the regional government with the support of Gdynia, Gdańsk and Sopot, from Kartuz drives several tens of thousands of people... [[Voice from the room: No accident.]] I said, he drives a few tens of thousands of people. They work, they learn in these cities, and they benefit from the wealth of those cities you don't like so much. I don't understand why. [[That's your voice.]] And I told you that these metropolises have a positive effect on these small organisms. And you know it. You're the only one who's just afraid of it. And that's the problem. Today we're talking about this. I said it earlier, in an earlier speech. That we have exhausted the resources of simple solutions. We need support, people need it to meet further public needs in a place where the Pomeranian metropolis will be. And I believe that one day you'll be right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u174	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Krzysztof Brejza made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Is there anything else Mr. Chezernaker would like to comment on? I'm asking because his name has been repeatedly invoked here. You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Such function.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u175	I would like to thank you very warmly for the discussion, for all the arguments ad rem. It is regrettable that there are also many arguments ad personam from some mouths, such as I read as insolent, directed towards me. But thank you for this discussion. I would also like to refer to the thesis that has appeared several times here, that the government is conducting or is going to wage any war with self-government, with local government units. I'd like to correct that. That is not true. We will create, support programmes to support local governments and local communities. I am convinced that many of the programs that we are already doing today confirm this thesis. As for the arguments supporting the idea of a framework law, this is a dissonance between the adoption of successive laws that govern the establishment of successive metropolitan areas and, at the same time, the need for a framework law. We, as the Ministry, will be conducting an analysis that I mentioned in my first speech. For the discussion and for all the arguments that have been made in it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. Finally, on behalf of the guests invited by Mr. Marshal Grodzki, the President of Sopot, Mr. Jacek Karnowski, will speak. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to thank the Mayor of the Municipality of Line, Mr Bogusław Engelbrecht, Mayor of Pelplin, Mr Mirosław Chyła, and the Mayor of the New Court of Gdańsk, Mr Jack Michalski very warmly for this legislative initiative and to mention that this bill is needed, as Senator Kwiatkowski and Mr Senator Światkowski said, mostly to smaller municipalities, which proves that we are here. Sopot isn't a big community either, it's only 34.5,000 inhabitants. There are no representatives of Gdańsk and Gdynia here, we are fighting for this law today, because the issues of communication and the labour market are so important primarily for the smaller ones. Here's the other thing. We do not want to compete with anyone in Opole, Silesia, Lower Silesia. We want to compete in Europe, and for this competition to be run in Europe by these cities and municipalities, we need a metropolitan law. We have gained some experience in ZITs, in Integrated Territorial Investments, which we have had the opportunity to perform in all metropolitan areas or in other functional areas, in smaller municipalities in the past. When we look at this, to be fair, full name of Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis, we are delighted with their experiences. But I would also like to tell you senators, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, Minister, that the European experience that I have been observing for several years, even writing a scientific paper on this subject, which has probably become obsolete, is that special laws are being created for individual metropolitan areas, which are often even beyond national borders, because there is one of the metropolitan areas that hits three countries. There is also a metropolis that hits 3 lands in Germany or Malmö metropolis Copenhagen, which is divided by the straits, is Swedish-Danish, but it works well. That's why we have these experiences. As for density, then... What Senator Rybicki was talking about... Wejherowo, Rumia, Reda, Gdansk, Sopot, Gdynia, Pruszcz Gdański and surroundings, Kosakowo, Żukowo I think this is the region not less compacted than Upper Silesia and Zagłębie. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing this metropolis since 1991, as Senator Rybicki has been talking about, and with the Ministry, also with your predecessor, Minister, Mr Sebastian Chwałk, we have been discussing since 2016, regretting very much that the previous government team prepared this framework law so late, although I am in favour of these various laws. Unfortunately, we have only been discussing since 2016 and the European train is leaving us. We really want to compete with Europe, not compete within the country. Speaking of Senator Czerwiński's speech, I will say that small municipalities also have their programs in Poland, they have their EU programmes, Eastern Poland has its programs. We are absolutely against not supporting these smaller communities. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't think there's anything to wait for because we're 20 years behind. As Poland, we are catching up and sometimes even ahead of some of the countries of the Union on certain solutions, but on this issue we are twenty years behind, because in Italy, Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden these metropolises sometimes exist after twenty years. And we don't have a chance to compete with them, and that's the most important thing for us. That is why I thank the Ministry of Development very much for its positive opinion. I ask, however, that the government of the Republic of Poland pay attention to the fact that it once wanted to introduce a Mazowieckie metropolis. Right? Then the scream of self-government rose. So maybe it's better to take advantage of a situation like this when it's this initiative down there, not in advance. I think that this government should be close to the principle of subsidiarity, so simply derived from Catholic social science. So it's not the principle of democratic centralism, it's subsidiarity, it's that it's the local governments that come out with an initiative. I call on all senators, including the Law and Justice, to base themselves on this principle of subsidiarity, to favour those who have a bottom-up initiative, not just to impose certain solutions from the top, because I think that what is happening at the bottom is always the most beautiful. I stress that this is something that is intended primarily for smaller municipalities, not for municipalities such as Gdansk and Gdynia, which are definitely Hegemonians in this Pomeranian market. Going back to Elbląg, I'm going to say this is a chance, this is a gateway for Elbląg. But, of course, if there is a metropolis around Olsztyn, when we talk about the voivodship, we will talk about Olsztyn, about the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Of course, we can pick on these phrases, although once the capital of the voivodship was in Skarszewy in Pomerania, and then in the Second Republic of Poland at some point in Toruń. So that it can shape differently, whether she leaves Gdansk or he stays in this voivodeship city forever. So, once again, I am very cordially asking you to support this initiative, a bottom-up, sprouting initiative for decades, but unable to break through. I also wish other metropolises, and Łódź, and Poznań, and Wrocław, and probably Białystok and Lublin, that they also arise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Senators, I declare a 10-minute recess until 15.55. After the vote. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 45 to 15 minutes 55]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the metropolitan union in the Pomeranian voivodship. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft law was presented before the break. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 66 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Ryszard Świlski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Applause]] 89 senators voted, 86 votes against, 2 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a draft law on the metropolitan union in Pomeranian Voivodeship and adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Richard Świlski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees and the Act on the Management of Real Estates. The text of the Act is contained in print No 194 and the report of the Commission In print No 194 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, there's still a moment for... [[Mr. Marshal, I'll wait a second for the euphoria of the vote to pass.]] Yes. Thank you, guests. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u179	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, my report could be drawn to the fact that the joint committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions recommend that the High Senate adopt the attached draft resolution, i.e. the bill together with the 19 amendments tabled. But, Mr. Marshal, Dear Senators, this case is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll wait for you, because the representatives of Warsaw and representatives of the Ministry of Justice... [[I ask the guests to take their seats and allow the senator to continue his report.]] Thank you very much. Well, Mr. and Mrs. Marshal, the Senators, the issue of this amendment requires some historical reflection. To this day, Warsaw's capital city, as well as its inhabitants, face the consequences of the so-called. Crucial decree of Bierut. Further changes in the law have led to a situation in which legal trade suffers due to changes which have been subsequently and not necessarily orderly in this matter. It seems to me that a good introduction to our deliberations will be a fragment of the comments of the Polish Metropolitan Union concerning this law. It is stressed that the law adopted by the Sejm is mainly an attempt to correct the errors repeatedly indicated by the Sejm. Warsaw. The amendment exposes weaknesses in the functioning of the Commission's law in many respects. It is good, then, that we have been tried to change the defective rules. Here I remind you that these regulations were introduced, if I remember correctly, in 2017. In other words, it is a matter of changes adopted by the Sejm in the Real Estate Management Act. The problem of reprivatization concerns Poland as a whole, while the law passed by the Sejm is an attempt to solve only the problems of a selected group of Warsaw tenants, without a wider look at the problem faced in particular by large cities in the country. The Act does not solve problems related to claims of former owners of real estate taken over by the Decree on agricultural reform, the Act on take-over into the property of your basic branches of the national economy or many other branches in force until 1989. The city continues to struggle with the consequences of the legal elimination of old decisions on the basis of the acquisition of land by the State Treasury. The revision of the rules is a step in the right direction, but without further leaning on the subject and finding complex systemic solutions, which balance the rights of former owners, the interests of cities, as well as the rights of tenants and social values, the Act will only be another small reprivatisation act that removes the need to deal with the biggest problems at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in these last two sentences there is a problem that has affected all of us for many years, i.e. an attempt to balance the interests of the tenants. Unfortunately, they were victims of the so-called. house cleaners or aggressive real estate dealers The legitimate rights of former owners and their heirs or buyers of these rights, as well as the interests of all inhabitants of Warsaw. This is because Warsaw is incomparably burdened with obligations regarding compensation. And finding a common denominator for these completely conflicting interests required and still requires bold decisions, which practically no ruling crew has made since 1989. Those problems are gonna get worse. And subsequent amendments, which only pointlessly try to correct inconsistencies and problems, will somehow try to make up for only and only fragmentedly subsequent groups, will cause even more legal mess, from which, unfortunately, no exit can be seen today. With regard to this submission, I would like to quote a few sentences written by the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, who, let's say, is not a member of the opposition, he is the person indicated by the rulers. The draft law provides, among other things, for this purpose. amendment of Article 214a Act on Real Estate Management through a significant extension of the so-called. Reliable decrees. In this respect, I kindly pay attention This is still a quote from the opinion of the President of the Attorney General The fact that the extension of the catalogue of grounds for refusal will give rise to financial consequences in the form of the need for the State Treasury to pay compensation to eligible persons who fulfilled the conditions laid down in the Warsaw Decree and nevertheless received negative decrees which were subsequently annulled. And a very important issue. Of course, you don't write about it, Mr. President of the Attorney General, because it's not his concern. But this extension will have exactly the same effect. This amendment, if adopted in this form, will have a negative financial impact, a very heavy, very heavy budget burden for the capital city of Warsaw, for all inhabitants of Warsaw. Since the money that will have to be paid as compensation in connection with this amendment will not be able to finance other tasks that are financed by the budget of the capital city of Warsaw. I return to the letter of the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office: "In addition, the conditions contained in the draft paragraphs 7 and 12 of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of this Regulation. 1 are general clauses which may raise doubts in the application of the law, including as regards their compliance with Article. 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I remind you that's what the President of the Attorney General writes. For these reasons, there is a concern whether the decisions on which the above-mentioned proposed provisions will be the basis for refusal will be the result of their verification in the course of judicial and administrative proceedings. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the entire section, an important part of the implications that can follow this law. Well, in this law, and so far we have very bad experience with the decisions of the committee which are being repealed by the administrative courts, there is an anticipation that it will continue to do so, and to a much wider extent. I'm going back to the opinion of the President of the Attorney General. It states that, indeed, the right of perpetual use, like ownership, is not an absolute right and in accordance with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is subject to restrictions by law, but only to the extent that the law does not infringe the substance of that right. Finally, this is one of the points in the revised article. 214a. The following remark should be made as to the inability to reconcile with the proper development of neighbouring relations. In any case, it also constitutes a general clause. As is known, undefined phrases (including general clauses) are legal provisions in which all elements consisting of a hypothesis or a provision of a legal standard have not been specifically specified, and the assessment of the specific facts is transferred to the law enforcement authority. In this respect, only up to two provisions were submitted to the President of the General Prosecutor's Office, 1 of which was removed at the stage of work in the Sejm. Here I thank the Ministry for agreeing to an opinion which stated that such a provision could not stand. Such comments were addressed in respect of probably 4 or 5 other reasons which cannot be clearly stated so that we have no doubt. as to whether the decisions of the officials of the capital city of Warsaw will be able to stand in the legal trade in the future. This law also received comments from the Supreme Bar Council in a very comprehensive, 36-page opinion. In conclusion, we read: the project provides for solutions which can certainly be described as having doubts as to their compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The project designer pointed out in the justification of the project that its main objective was to realise the social interest and individual persons living on the basis of existing lease agreements for residential premises in the re-privatisation process. However, it seems that the designer not only did not properly balance the achievement of this objective with violations... the same rights of heirs of former owners of Warsaw real estate... but did not even show the existence of a relationship between them. In particular, it was not raised at the legislative stage that in order to satisfy claims for compensation of tenants of Warsaw real estate it is not necessary to prevent the execution of decree claims at the same time. This is a very important aspect of the problems we will face when we talk about this project. In the opinion of many people examining these provisions, these records go so far that... In the writings that were addressed to us, there were even accusations that such a wide range goes further than the original decree of Bierut, the communist. I believe that as parliamentarians, and we are here mostly from the backgrounds that were in opposition and that were trying to change this system... I believe it is illegal to return to this system to any extent. Another quote from the Foundation for Endocrinological Prevention... This is a foundation that returns property in Warsaw. Act amending the Real Estate Act passed... This is about the previous amendment, the so-called. A little reprivatization. These were provisions adopted two more terms ago, at the end of the 2015 term, before the elections, and they were intended to sort out, at least to a basic degree, the mess, the elimination of the free American woman who was on the rights market. It was a presentation that made this turn... In this trade they could no longer function completely without any supervision, schools, hospitals, which were sometimes recovered... There was such a pathology that the students had to move out of school. This submission also led to the fact that the turnover was subject to at least such supervision that those contracts had to be registered with the notary. So we had a date, and the notary also took some responsibility for the terms of these contracts, and often older people were the parties to these contracts, who often sold something of great value for price. Here we can find an inctio with the one we've tried on the committee yesterday and which will still be being examined by Senator Lydia Staroń's project concerning the notariat. Indeed, such situations have happened. This law, which entered into force in 2017... sorry, on 17 September 2016, only to a small extent interfered in the rights of owners or heirs of owners, but still aroused very strong controversy. Here I quote: this law, contrary to the propaganda of the Civic Platform and the President of Warsaw, that it is a small act of reprivatization of real estate, introduced an extension to the law on real estate management excluding the return of real estate in nature, incompatible with the constitution, discriminated against owners of Warsaw real estate more than the communist decree of Bierut. Since I think it is possible to write so harshly about this law, imagine what is in the documents and in the opinions concerning this law that we have received. In a very similar direction, the opinions submitted by the Association of People Affected by the Impact of the Warsaw Decree are headed by the Secretary of State, the 2nd Sorry, 3rd Opinions, as well as other... Also Polish Earth Society... In all these opinions the unconstitutionality of the solutions proposed in the Act, their non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as with the European Convention on Human Rights, which Poland signed in 1993, and which also guarantees the protection of property rights, is raised. At the same time, as I said, we are dealing with very often excluded interests here. Of course, we must take into account the interests of the tenants, remembering what happened in Warsaw for many years. We also have here the opinion of the tenant organisations, which indicate that certain records of this submission are too weak. At the committee meeting we also heard a very strong voice from representatives of Warsaw's capital city. They raised a lot of problems with these records, which I will not describe here one by one. I think that, as the Minister will speak here, who will talk about this bill, we will also be able to listen to the representative of Warsaw's capital city, because this is about the important interest of the crowd, almost 2 million inhabitants of Warsaw, who will be affected, at least in financial terms, by the consequences of this law. During the meeting of the committee, several amendments were tabled by representatives of the capital city of Warsaw. They were partially accepted by representatives of the Ministry of Justice and partly rejected. In two or three cases, the need to deal with amendments together resulted in... Although the representatives of the Ministry of Justice agreed with some of the amendments... Since they were considered together, they could not agree to their adoption. That's because they were connected. I think I've presented all aspects of our committee's work. Thank you very much. I'm at your disposal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Paweł Lisiecki was authorized to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Would the Member like to speak? [[Mr. Marshal, I think if you perform Minister Kalet, he'll describe it perfectly.]] Thank you. But there may be questions for you. [[Then I'll try to answer.]] Because at present, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the authorised representative of the applicants, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Then we're going to the Minister. Would Minister Sebastian Kaleta like to speak on the bill under consideration? If so, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The submission is very important. Many times in the work of the committee we emphasized that one of the objectives of the work of the committee, its fruit should be to compensate for the damage and harm that the inhabitants of the capital city of Warsaw have suffered. This law goes against some kind of, you can say, misunderstandings resulting from the relationship between the commission as an organ of government administration and the capital city of Warsaw. However, regardless of legal disputes, the interests of the residents are ultimately important. And the result of working on this project is, you can say, the common position that this solution, which is proposed in the law, is a solution that should be those problems which the committee has seen when it comes to the situation of Warsaw tenants, to correct. Several solutions in the bill tidy up the work of the committee. This law in 2017 was something exceptional in the Polish legal order because, while the Code of Administrative Procedure always provided, and in some special laws it was regulated, the possibility of additional institutions of extraordinary modes of moving administrative decisions, but to such a wide extent... The verification committee was the first body to deal with a very serious matter on the one hand, and on the other hand, those powers were far-reaching, especially when looking at relations with the local government, its functioning as well as this legal thread. It was an extremely special law, and it is clear that there were different differences in interpretation due to its application. The doctrine of administrators, one can say, administrative law as a field of law thanks to the Commission Act has developed significantly. Very many specialists, scientists in this field of law, could show, on the example of the committee, tools that have often not been used in recent years, when it comes to administrative law. So this bill worked out. But just because it worked doesn't mean that it can't be improved as a result of experience. This submission, this bill passed by the Sejm, serves this purpose. And I'm moving on to the Real Estate Act. The postulate for many years pointed out as the one which is important in talking about reprivatisation is the weighing of the rights that result from our constitution. This law, because of the problem it solves, also because of the case law of the Constitutional Court, is in favour of the proper recognition of the rights of local residents. However, as Mr Senator mentioned, when referring to the various opinions that appeared on this law, this does not mean that the issue of regulating the legal title and the issue of claims relating to Warsaw real estate is closed. It's not like that at all. However, in view of the fact that there is no single proposal, which all parties to the political dispute today would be able to recognise as appropriate for reprivatisation, we cannot continue in a situation that is detrimental to a quite important group of residents. And this law is the one that solves this problem, although you have to be fully aware of it. That's what I've always emphasized. That doesn't solve the problem to the end. These provisions of the Real Estate Management Act will undoubtedly improve the situation of Warsaw's tenants, but at the same time the shape of this law is an obligation to continue looking for ways to close the issue of non-regulation of legal titles to certain land in Warsaw. And as a representative of the applicants and at this moment a representative of the government with full awareness, I stress that. Indeed, in the course of the committee's work on several technical, organisational amendments, which were submitted by the capital city of Warsaw above all... The government side believes that it is possible together... that they do not raise doubts. However, several amendments have been blocked. Partly, they were right, part of which could not be accepted, so they were negatively assessed by the Ministry at the committee meeting. Thank you for yesterday's work. I am open to questions and I hope to be able to give you accurate answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u182	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I have already said this and I will repeat this: I believe that this bill is a step in the right direction, and to some extent it facilitates further ordering of cases related to the negative consequences of Bierut's decree. But it's just a step. Hence my question, specifically addressed to the representative of the government. Because we still need to look for solutions to the overall, target and next steps that will effectively solve this problem. Does the government have any plans in this regard? Could the Minister tell us if you're planning something, introduce something, something that's going to be another piece of work to sort this out? And with this problem, the capital city can't handle itself, because it really requires further legislative solutions and financial support from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u184	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u185	Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Indeed, it can be said that this stage of legislative work on this law also prompts us to answer the question of what will be next and what will be the next intentions. It is no secret that in 2017 in the Ministry of Justice we prepared a proposal for full regulation not only in Warsaw, but also in the field of other nationalisation acts, but it was not possible at that stage to develop comprehensive solutions in this area, to obtain their approval so that these regulations can enter into force and be considered as those which fairly regulate these problems. In view of the fact that it was not possible to reach a compromise on reprivatisation during this period, from the end of 2017 to the present time, to the full extent, as a person responsible for the Warsaw issue, as a representative of the government, also together with the Members, and taking advantage of the experience of the current authorities of Warsaw's capital city, since President Rabiej worked in the review committee and similar views on these matters, we have repeatedly presented a similar assessment, and we have decided to propose this step together with a group of Members. Perhaps this trip was not a spectacular and successful attempt, but the case was not buried and now we are taking a step. And now I answer the question of what the next steps will be. There is certainly also a proposal to determine the amount of compensation. A group of Members of the Left submitted such a proposal to the Sejm. A similar mechanism was proposed in the 2017 Act, it balanced, you can say, the scale of war damage, the value of war property in relation to today's value, as well as taking into account certain economic factors related to the passage of time, as well as the scale of possible compensation for those claims that have not been met. This is money and here always the hardest discussion. Nevertheless, the mechanism that has been proposed is, in my opinion, the direction that we should discuss. And on the other hand, since, of course, the largest local government, the largest, one can say, the unit that has a problem with reprivatization, is the capital city of Warsaw, it is undoubtedly Also due to the fact that this capital city of Warsaw owns the said land and they remain mostly in urban resources, it is an indispensable partner to formulate a final proposal for such legislation. From this point on, I declare that if this law enters into force, I will continue to seek... I will be the representative of the government who, through a compromise, will seek solutions to the problem discussed here. But here you need the will of 2 pages and will also include. to participate, jointly, in the costs of such an undertaking. Because since the local government is using real estate and the local government also wants some of these properties to be released in an investment... Because, which is very important, the burden on claims limits the possibility of investing in real estate or even naturally having this resource. Therefore, I hope that the Warsaw authorities will also be able to discuss this with the government in order to find the best solutions. I will certainly be a representative of the government who will recommend such talks, seeking solutions. And the proposals that were made in 2017 are, in my opinion, possible proposals for the beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u186	I have a question for you, Minister. In 2017, you prepared a reprivatization bill. Have you abandoned your work on this bill? How's it look? Of course, I was present with at least two reprivatization initiatives. I know that the so-called issue is a serious problem. Jewish property and international repercussions. Was that also a problem in the 2017 Act? And do you continue this work at all, or did you just abandon it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u187	I'll answer that, Mr. Marshal. The bill does not currently have a new version. When it comes to whether new projects have been developed as a result of the public consultation to which the project has been submitted, this has not happened. However, at the end of the consultation, the Ministry continued to obtain new analyses, in particular concerning the scope of claims and the risks associated with these claims. And here we keep getting information, both from the D.A., from the Ministry of Agriculture... for example. The agricultural decree, as we know, is still a problem. So we collect this information. The new project was not submitted by the Ministry. With a view to Just what I said in answer to the previous question... I mean. This issue is so broad and gives rise, apart from political views, to such extreme expectations that the final proposal would have to be the result of a compromise, including a political one, so that the solution proposed could have more support than just the support of the current parliamentary majority, in this House in opposition. So the subject is not buried. However, there is no new version of the project. That is why I mentioned that in the field of Warsaw these proposals, which are in this law, I, as a representative of the government, support. Because the issue of the entire bill is much wider. There are all nationalisation acts included, and the Warsaw Decree, due to my work in the verification commission, is just the closest to me, these problems are best known to me. As to the question concerning the various expectations expressed so-called. Jewish environments... here some are known... It is difficult to describe the nature of a given representation, what it is supposed to hold among individual groups, but this is how it is presented to the public. The government's position is clear here. Because it's... it's very interesting, but it's rarely discussed in the public debate. In the context of the JUST Act, Law 447, which was passed on internal grounds between the State Department and Congress at the end of 2017, in the first rulings of the real estate verification committee at ul. The problem with the so-called problem was harder. Non-fall-free property. This property... Mr. Senator used to appeal to a school that the students had to move out of. This case is the subject of criminal proceedings, is an indictment against a businessman who was at the reprivatization, led it and obtained this property. The method of taking over this property was as follows. The court appointed a curator of inheritance for the Jewish people who died... of Polish citizenship, but who were Jewish, who died during the Holocaust. There was no information on the heirs. Through the probation officer's institution, the claim for a small fraction of the value fell into the hands of this businessman. In its case law, recalling the case law available to the general courts, the Commission pointed out that, in the area of such property, the heir is the Treasury, because the deceased citizens were Polish citizens, regardless of this tragic history. Poles of Jewish origin during the war. And if there are no legal heirs or no will inheritance, then property is the property of the State Treasury. Moreover, by the end of 1946, these citizens were mostly covered by the Napoleon Code, which after a certain period, even if the heirs were found, prevented them from obtaining inheritance rights. Here, as regards the succession of the deceased, there is such a law as was in force on the day of the death of the deceased. Thus, in the case of the dead during the Holocaust, the Napoleon Code still applies today as regards the determination of inheritance rights after these persons. Therefore, from the perspective of the Polish legal order, there is no problem. Of course, at times there is a debate in the framework of an international dispute around this issue, but any changes in this matter would have to be due to changes in the internal legal order of the Republic of Poland. In terms of law, which has been in force not only in recent years, but also several decades back, this issue has been and is clearly regulated. Discussion on this subject is more political than actually legal. Of course, the government is not planning to change these rules. [[Under our civil law, yes. You're right. But there is a much wider catalogue of heirs in the United States.]] I can refer to the report that the State Department presented. [[No. I don't want to...]] The State Department, without assessing the Polish legal order, provided Congress with information about the facts in the Polish legal order based on the position of the Polish government, which I may not quote. It is logically consistent with what I have presented here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u188	Well, that's great. Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have questions of nature, let's call it constitutional. I mean this: what is the matter of compensation for former owners or so-called. former owners and their legal successors in a situation where the property exists, but cannot be returned in nature? For example, because it is inhabited by tenants, there is a different situation. What happens then? What's the procedure for this former owner? Being in a worse situation than anyone else, e.g. has a property that can be used for return in nature. And he can't be. And what does the compensation process look like now in the light of the proposed provisions of the Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u190	In the light of the proposed provisions of the Act, the procedure for possible compensation for persons whose applications cannot be met shall not be changed. The problem with the compensation results from the fact that the Bieruta Decree provided for a mechanism to be established in order to compensate for the operation of the Bierut Decree. And since there is no administrative procedure, the possible path of redress is a judicial path on a general basis. And here in case law there are discrepancies in the amount of compensation in such a situation. But this bill For the sake of clarity on tenants It does not eliminate these claims, but gives the city of Warsaw a real alternative in administrative proceedings. If the capital city of Warsaw in the course of administrative proceedings considers that a given housing resource and its development are simply necessary for the performance of these duties, which result from the regulations on residential matters, it will be able to benefit from the ground of refusal. If the capital city of Warsaw And there's not a lot of buildings like that. In part, it only manages the building and will be able to offer them suitable replacement premises in agreement with the residents, i.e. so that the property will not be burdened with these tenant rights, then this condition will not be applicable. This is very important, because this law does not put aside claims, which also has very important repercussions regarding the creation of a compensation obligation. In this case, we had very prudently planned to give the city of Warsaw more freedom, on the one hand, and on the other hand, so that, where necessary, the city could exercise the right to refuse. And since, as I understand the answers to the previous questions, there is no clear mechanism for closing claims, then the person who receives the negative decision That's probably what you're supposed to do. She will try to pursue her claims on a general civil basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u191	Senator Jackowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u192	Thank you very much. I was gonna ask you something else. But in that case, if financial claims arise, will they be covered by the capital city or the Treasury? What is the situation under this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u193	Currently, on the basis of this law, if, in the course of some period, the court considers that these claims are justified, the costs will be distributed. The D.A.'s gonna answer... The investigation will be conducted by the prosecutor and the costs will be charged to the State Treasury from the Reprivatization Fund. And the ability to implement this mechanism... If I'm wrong, I'm asking you to correct it. Because I've seen a few things. The proceedings were different and sometimes, depending on who manages, the responsibility is spread out differently. But in connection with the application of this law and the moment when possible liability for damages will be applied, this is a very long time. It also gives us time to find the solution we are talking about, which is to close our claims at all and determine what compensation should be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u194	You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u195	Thank you very much. I have another question because I know a bit of these issues as former President of the City Council of Warsaw. So I have a question about single-family buildings, houses, etc. We know that they were also taken over by decree of Bierut, i.e. theoretically, the decree took the land property, and then the administrators of these buildings... There were often accommodations, some families were assigned there, these buildings were divided internally, but usually there were one entrance door. Someone had a room, but the right to use the kitchen, to use the bathroom on certain terms. Well, that's the whole story... I don't want to talk about it. My question is this. If a former owner who is also a tenant in such a building has the right to recover this property... But under the law, literally understood city can say, okay, but you won't get that property back because it's inhabited. The fact that the ex-owner lives in it... Then he's entitled to compensation. And such an ex-owner in an extreme situation can lead to him receiving compensation and, at the same time, as a tenant, he will still live in this house. Is it in this regard wouldn't it be worth thinking about the system solutions that the law would regulate? Speaking of the previous Minister's statement... Isn't it worth encouraging even the capital city of Warsaw, just through legal solutions... I don't have a ready idea at the moment, but it could be done in such a way that... Because cheaper from the point of view of social interest, I'm already ignoring the interest of the former owner, there may still be a return of this property in nature plus the introduction of a mechanism so that the capital city of Warsaw can guarantee municipal premises to people who, as a result of such a return, may lose the possibility of living at a given address. These are certain subtleties, but there are a lot of such cases in Warsaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u196	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u197	Thank you for paying attention to the issue of single-family homes, because this was also the subject of yesterday's committee meeting. Interpreting the bill through all types of interpretation... The person who is the legal successor to the owner of the pre-war property built, the house where the family lives, does not need the protection of the tenant from reprivatization, because this person is interested in establishing his legal title to the property. And it is clear that the law adopted by the Sejm allows the capital city of Warsaw to regulate this land so that this single-family house... Besides, today these decisions can also be made, but they were not published everywhere. This is important, too. In the light of this law adopted by the Sejm, the city can consistently regulate this legal title, while in the course of the growing doubts on the part of the capital city of Warsaw the proposed amendment to include only single-family dwellings from this exclusion from point 6... would lead to the fragmentation of this regulation. This would then be subject to the full court case law and it is not excluded that the courts in their case law would conclude that, for example. The tenement is a single-family building, because one family can live in the entire building. Unfortunately, this kind of case law in the course of Warsaw's reprivatization took place. Moreover, such case law was the basis for reprivatisation of buildings, e.g. For educational purposes, and sometimes the court stated that the school could rent rooms from someone, from a private person, and therefore there is no obstacle to reprivatization. During the committee's work, since Warsaw's capital city did not trust this regulation adopted by the Sejm, which in this sense is clear People with claims for single-family buildings that live in these buildings... I proposed to make it clear that in a situation where the applicant is the owner of the premises, i.e. that he should be sure of the identity of the person making the claim and of the person who is covered by that right... Unfortunately, this amendment was not formulated as such. The bill, if it's accepted... I, as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, will recommend rejecting this amendment which the committee has proposed, because in the course of the interpretation of this provision by the courts And in Warsaw reprivatization, unfortunately, sometimes there were weird legal lines, it could lead to a distortion of the meaning of this regulation. But in the wording adopted by the Sejm as much as possible the capital city of Warsaw can take various mechanisms into account the applications of legal successors in the case of single-family houses, if they still occupy these houses. That was the intention, and unfortunately here the committee's will was different.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u198	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm talking about art. 214b Act on Real Estate Management. There is such a change concerning, so to speak, the procedures for the remission of applications referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Bierutowski Decree. Tell me when those applications were still made. After all, they were folded, according to what is here, in just after the war, there was probably 6 months. Or were they being folded now, in these times, let's call it modern, after the transformations, after 1989?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u200	This is a very interesting question due to the fact that sometimes in some cases a decree proposal was missing. Legislative requests have been agreed. The interpretation of the concept of submitting a decree application is very large in case law, because sometimes the capital city of Warsaw... the president of the capital city of Warsaw e.g. issued decisions determining the application on the basis of not signed... printing of the application, but not signed, or for example. filed by a completely unauthorised person. The case-law of the courts went in such a way that it supposed, in principle, in any case, to submit an application in view of a sufficient demonstration of the intention of the entitled party. So this interpretation, as far as the application is concerned, has so far been very broad. Of course, according to this assumption, the deadline for submitting an application was material and, after that date, such requests were not dealt with. But in the meantime, there were various regulations in other laws that, in a certain category of cases, allowed us to ask for a refund again. And these provisions, which you recall, also refer to provisions that concern applications submitted at a different time. They were e.g. issues relating to strict compensation After 1958 By 1958, the property had to be taken away so that a claim for damages could be made, even now. So, depending on what category of property and what category of fulfilment of the claim the senator asks, these terms were different. However, the general principle is that there was a term of substantive law, and its overshoot caused the application to be impossible to implement. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u201	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u202	I have an additional question on this. Earlier in this provision, there was a basis for redemption if, in addition to this request, no other letter was received from the party, and that was it. Understandable: until redemption. And at the moment, after the change, it is to be so that if, within 30 years of the date of the application, no other letter was received from the party. The question is: does it improve or make things worse? I'm asking for legal stability. Because if someone finds out and makes anything now, at the time when the bill didn't come into force, they theoretically wrote a letter. Question is, what then? [[Secretary of State at Sebastian Kalet's Ministry of Justice: There is always... Mr. Senator refers to the sound adopted by the Sejm or the tabled amendment?]] No, I'm talking about what the Sejm has accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u203	Yes. In this respect, there has been a change in the committee... [[Uh-huh.]] ...because we've been proposing that it be 30 years since the application was filed. Looking at it like that, I've already left out the fact that I've said what should be considered as a conclusion, because it could be... Besides, I didn't think about it before, but it was only now that the senator inspired me. Well, theoretically, you can imagine that someone is about to apply for this property, and before that, no application was made. The wording of the rule following the amendment adopted by the committee, with a positive recommendation from the government, is that it counts 30 days back, but since the announcement. In short... because there is also such doubt that if someone in communist times did not take action, it would not be fair for this person to be wronged, because under communist conditions she could not count on the application to be realized at all, because she knew what the practice was. So after the change, which is currently voted out after approval by the committee, this deadline will be counted backwards from the moment of the announcement, which is, in short, the last 30 years. This amendment was also made at the last stage of the work in the Sejm, but there was not enough time to analyse it. Between the work of the Sejm and the Senate as the Ministry, we leaned on it and... that is, after the meeting of the Sejm committee, because it took two weeks between the vote in the Sejm and the committee's report, so at that time this amendment was already drawn up and here is the agreement between the government and the capital city of Warsaw.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u204	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? [[I do.]] Oh, here they are. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u205	Minister, in answer to Senator Jackowski's question about the possibility of obtaining some compensation by the owner, who will be refused reimbursement of this property under this law, you said that, if possible, the compensation will be covered by the Reprivatization Fund, in any case this will not be borne by the city of Warsaw. Could you tell me where that recipe is that... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: I said that these are general principles, that on general principles arising from the Civil Code, the relevant proceedings take place.]] But general principles are not a rule of law. Could you give me a recipe that says it's gonna be the Reprivatization Fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u206	I mean, I didn't run these proceedings, and it's not... In this respect, this procedure does not change in this law. However, if claims are made relating to the activities of administrative authorities and if there are no specific provisions for the recovery of these claims, then there is always a general path related to claims under the Civil Code, as in Article. 417. I may be wrong, but it's around those rules that regulate responsibility. Of course, I am prepared to give a detailed reply in writing after the meeting on the full path to redress these claims.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u207	Of course, Minister, the public declaration that these costs will be covered by the Reprivatization Fund is important... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: I reserve that I may have been mistaken because this is a statement of knowledge...]] That's what I was afraid of. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet:... not a statement on this legislative proposal.]] That's what I was afraid of, because there's such suspicion, quite strongly attached, that the organ that refused would then have consequences. So if... [[Secretary of State at Sebastian Kalet's Ministry of Justice: If he applied the law wrongly, yes.]] Okay. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: If correct, this authority does not respond.]] Mr. Minister, well, it would be good to put it in some way...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u208	Mr. Senator, the problem is that we don't have a clear regulation... This means perhaps the capital city of Warsaw, as it will have its part of the speech, will answer to what extent and when there is a refusal, when there is an annulment, when there is a failure to take the application into account for another reason, how the compensation for the various stages is broken down, because this is really a lot of different claims to Warsaw real estate and with different liability regimes. According to my best knowledge, if, as a result of a change of law... if property rights change, it is an opportunity for the court to consider, evaluate and then the court shall assess whether the claim in question should be compensated. [[The fact that the court and that it is compensated is clear. But who's gonna be...]] This law does not contain any regulation because, as regards these grounds of refusal, which I have indicated, in particular paragraph 6, it leaves an alternative to Warsaw's capital city as regards proceedings. Indeed, it can be an open matter as the courts will assess the liability for such and not a different decision arising from the application of this law. I do not hide that this is also a deliberate solution, because since there is no compromise As for the way the claims are extinguished, the inhabitants of Warsaw cannot be harmed by this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u209	Well, point 6 is a specific point. This is the point where the place is occupied, at least one. And indeed, then the city of Warsaw can bring out this tenant, provide him with a different place, etc. Yeah, but here's 12 points. And the rest of it, I'm sorry... such a strange point that, because of this, I quote: the inability to reconcile with the proper development of neighbouring relations... Well, if someone refuses because of it, it's a court, for example. may consider that Warsaw must pay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u210	E.g. may assess that the activity of a person like Mr. Marek M. indicates that it is better not to have such a person in your neighborhood. He can share that view... [[Sure. So...]] ...or maybe not share. [[It could be like this, and it could be like this...]] Well, any regulation that contains a general clause is always subject to a final assessment of the facts...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u211	Okay, I'm done with this. So, in conclusion, it can be said that your answer to Senator Jackowski, that this kind of compensation will be paid from the Reprivatization Fund, well, it is not, so to speak, complete.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u212	It is not complete, because I would also have to supplement all elements related to compensation for unfulfilled claims. It's a big catalog. And maybe I was wrong. But there is a catalogue of matters related to Warsaw reprivatization. If it is not possible to pursue a claim under the decree of Bierut, it is finally covered by the Reprivatisation Fund, it is covered by the State Treasury. However, this law causes that the effects of applying these new conditions, if they possibly lead to liability for damages... Let me stress: possibly. Because it's not settled. These are not effects that will be visible in a year, two years from now, but a few years from now. And at that time, hopefully, we'll finally get to what I think everyone thinks is desirable, i.e. regulating the issue of claims in such a way as to extinguish them. [[Thank you very much. We're gonna keep digging into this.]] Of course, I'd be happy to participate in this digging.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u213	There you go. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u214	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I only have one question. How will the bad faith of a person be established, where there will be a presumption that this person...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u215	Senator Sekuła asked a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u216	You're referring to the commission bill, I understand, aren't you? [[Say it again.]] Because bad faith is...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u217	In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 31st paragraph is added, which is... There is such a term here, when a person's bad faith is found. Please tell me, Minister, how this is going to happen. Thank you. [[In bad faith...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u218	Bad faith is... [[...a legal concept.]] First of all, in the case of the commission bill, I'm not sure, I think we have a definition of bad faith. I haven't used that recipe in a long time. In general, bad faith is a general clause, but... [[I know where it is. I'm asking how it's gonna be determined.]] Yes. In its case-law, the Commission shall assess on the basis of the definition, the specific definition it has. Similarly, we have definitions of irreversible legal effects in the law. And that's why we have a little easier as an organ when it comes to evaluation. And this term is also a concept that comes from definitions that are in the Commission Act. Like... [[And if we wanted to read this definition...]] Well, I don't have a strict bill on me, I just have a senate print, so I'm not gonna quote it. Nevertheless, as regards the practice of the committee, I can respond in writing, as the committee formulates events that accompany bad faith. In case law, which the committee has issued, these are usually e.g. situations concerning persons who, on the one hand, are agents and, on the other hand, are actually beneficiaries of these reprivatisations. Thus, those transactions which take place in connection with the claim and subsequently established perpetual use take place in a circle of persons who are close to each other and can therefore easily find out that the person involved in the procedure is dead. You shouldn't set up a probation officer for her. It's so hot because we haven't had bad faith in case law in a long time. I'll be honest with you, it wasn't touched at the meeting last night, so I didn't renew that knowledge, but I'd love to. The committee will give the senator a proper study. [[If I could, Mr. Marshal, I'd like a written reply.]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u219	There you go. Okay, I'm typing. [[Thank you.]] Minister, something may not be a crime, but may be done in bad faith. Yes? [[Secretary of State at Sebastian Kalet's Ministry of Justice: Of course I do.]] There are situations. By the way...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u220	Bad faith within the meaning that the committee uses in the judicial practice... I will not mention all these concepts. It's about the deal... These are the groups that were usually described in the media. I will give an example of a transaction which one of the administrative courts in Warsaw did not consider to be included in the wrong faith, and thus such... The construction here is that if the transaction was concluded in bad faith, there are no irreversible legal effects in connection with the transaction. That's how this mechanism works in committee. For example, if there is a reprivatisation and a sale of real estate, the committee may consider that the disposal is ineffective and determine it in the decision. We had a case of the famous Mr. Mark M. who got one of the properties for his sake and then... One of the reasons for bad faith in this case is donation. He gave this property to his mother in a donation, and therefore there was an indication of irreparable legal consequences associated with bad faith in this transaction. It's defined in the commission bill. It's a k.p.a. term, but k.p.a. There's no definition of that, and the commission bill does. The Court of First Instance considered that the Commission Act and its definition of irreparable legal effects should not apply, and therefore repealed the decision of the Commission, stating that the transfer by Marek M. to his mom by way of a donation of Warsaw real estate had irreparable legal effects. [[Minister, are we starting to apply precedent law?]] The Provincial Administrative Court did so. It seems to me that all this effort, which is being put into lawmaking, serves to ensure that it is respected, and the voivodship administrative court simply skipped the wording of a quite important provision, applying the general principle of the law, although the legislator has defined a provision specific to the concept of irreversible legal consequences and issues of bad or good faith.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u221	Thank you. There are no more questions, Minister. Thank you, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Thank you very much.]] Would the Deputy President of Warsaw, Mr Paweł Rabia, like to speak on this issue? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u222	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr Pociej, rapporteur, outlined the difficult situation in which Warsaw is situated as a result of a decree by Mr Bierut. This situation is indeed difficult. I do not say this to complain, but to describe the challenges facing the authorities of Warsaw every day in connection with the functioning of the decree of Bierut. The inhabitants of Warsaw were in a difficult situation in connection with this decree after 1945. They were and are still in a difficult situation after 1989. Then they lost their property, now they're trying to get their property back. Of course, we had a lot of cases of wild reprivatization on the way, which were very much publicised. We've had a lot of tenant injuries, which have also been very much publicised. I think it's given everyone a lot to think about. These 75 years of validity of the decree Bierut is a powerful burden for the current functioning of Warsaw and for the finances of Warsaw, which is also not meaningless. To illustrate this, we have to say that at the moment we have over 4,000 claims for return of property in nature in the city. This number is changing because there are new conclusions, it's not that this directory is closed. There are also about 4 000 claims for damages, which must be paid by the city in a situation where it refuses to return in nature. Probably the most dramatic part of this description concerns the fact that about 20% of Warsaw's area has an unregulated legal status, which means that Warsaw cannot develop, that these areas cannot be devoted to public activity, cannot be devoted to housing and other needs of residents. This situation is difficult and it needs to be cleaned up, because there is no large law that would comprehensively regulate it. This law is certainly a good step towards regulating issues that can be regulated at this stage. It concerns the law on the verification commission, there are issues related to the acquisition of the board by the capital city of Warsaw as a result of the decision of the verification commission. At the very beginning, this was difficult for us due to the construction of the provisions in the bill on the verification commission. These amendments, which are the result of a certain dialogue and cooperation between the Warsaw City Hall and the verification committee, go this way in order to enable such a board to allow and so that such a board can be taken over by the capital city in a way that does not raise doubts. In the part concerning the law on the verification commission there is still a question of compensation, a question of extreme importance, because the authorities of the capital city of Warsaw, at least the current president of the capital city of Warsaw, although the previous one always stood in the position that compensation and compensation must be paid for the damage, but it is necessary to do so. It's legal. This path indicates how this should be done, eliminating certain legal doubts that existed in the law on the verification commission. This is certainly a big step in order, because compensation will be paid and the city will be able to take over on the property management as a result of the decision of the verification commission. As far as the second law is concerned, the Real Estate Management Act, I would say that indeed the catalogue on the refusal to return real estate in nature is extremely broad. It is extremely wide and results, I believe, from the very bad experiences of tenants, which, as I mentioned, have been widely described. But the city also made sure that these tenants could find an apartment and make amends as much as we could. I think there's some non-party, broad consensus that it can't be, there shouldn't be a return of apartments with tenants, a return of tenants' tenants' tenants. The question is whether these return bans should go so far and whether there should also be such indications as the issue of neighbouring relations and relations between people living in this building. As far as I think it has been possible to achieve such a belief that there can be no return of real estate with tenants, there are still two big issues ahead of us. The first is a matter of single-family homes raised by your senator. Indeed, there are many homes where people whose family owned such a house live and who are now tenants. I think that a solution should be found quickly, which will enable such people to return it rather than look for a solution in which the only offer that the Polish state has for these people is to refuse such a return, because the legal, formal, legal situation of these people would indeed be much better if we allowed such a return in this case. And as a city, of course, we are able to provide people who live in single-family homes, and are not descendants of former owners, foster homes from our housing stock. So that this is an extremely important issue, because it is now practically the only group on which we close the possibility of returning in such a clear way. The second point is the question of compensation. As I mentioned at the beginning, these cases are currently very much, Warsaw pays millions of zlotys annually from its budget for damages. When we refuse to refund the former owners of the property, these amounts may be much, much larger and they will charge Warsaw's budget, because it is Warsaw that will pay them. I believe that this issue should also be discussed, discussed and that solutions should be put in place in the near future, which will result in not only the budget of the capital city being charged with these costs. To conclude, I would like to say that this is certainly a step in the right direction, as a step in the right direction was the small reprivatization bill adopted in 2016. Small changes in the rules then allowed for the refusal to return 350 properties which are currently owned by the city and may have them. Thus even such minor changes make us able to organize this difficult matter of reprivatization and, above all, create a space in which the decisions of the capital city of Warsaw will be made transparently, transparently and as precise as possible. Unfortunately, the great curse of Bierut's decree and what appeared as a consequence of it is the extraordinary impreciseness, sometimes the contradiction of various kinds of rules. That's why it takes a lot to be clear and correct, step by step, so that we can get to a certain... So that I have a request for your senators to support this bill. It is crucial that these amendments proposed by Warsaw's capital city are taken into account in the final form of the bill, because they result from the daily experience of the Office of Decrees and our other offices in making administrative decisions related to reprivatization. If there are any questions on the part of the senators, Mr Wojciech Satocha, head of the Office of Secret Affairs, who will certainly answer the detailed legal questions very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. Stay at the podium, or there'll probably be questions for you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I asked the Minister about the compensation. The Minister stated that it was from the Treasury via Public Prosecutor's Office that these compensations are paid. What kind of compensation were you talking about? If there is a refusal to return the property in nature, then... The point is to be precise. I'm not talking about compensation for tenants, etc... I'm talking about property rights compensation. Who ultimately pays for these claims tried by the court: whether the State Treasury or the capital city of Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u225	The capital city of Warsaw, Mr. Senator. [[D.A. only costs...]] That's what it's been like so far, and that's what it looks like. [[The D.A. only costs, as I understand it...]] Indeed, there is also a question of compensation resulting from the decisions given by the verification committee. And here it's precise, in this case. it is a re-privatization fund, that is, the Treasury. This was determined after it was difficult to obtain these compensations due to the provision in the law on the verification commission. As for the claims of people whose city refused to return, they are addressed to the city and covered by the city In the event of losing, of course. In the event that such compensation is decided by the court, it is the sum of millions of zlotys. Last year it was over 20 million PLN, if memory serves me right. Previously, these amounts were much higher, and this was due to the fact that these refusals to return were more and more claims to the city due to the refusal to return. Now there's gonna be more of them. Like I said, we have 4,000 requests for return in nature... The return catalogue will be narrowed down, so you can expect that these refusals, after some time of course, after a few years, will be more, so also the burden of the budget of Warsaw will be much greater than those tens of millions of zlotys today. Here, we believe, it is appropriate that the State Treasury should be the recipient of these claims. In view of the fact that it is difficult to find rational arguments that blame the situation of failure to approve a large reprivatization bill for 30 years by the Polish state only to the capital city of Warsaw.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. And now we're going through... wait a minute. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Joanna Sekula. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a senator co-author of this so-called. a small reprivatisation bill, which we adopted in 2015, but which, due to referral to the Constitutional Tribunal, entered into force a little more than a year later I was the rapporteur of this bill, and then I defended her in the Sejm when I found out about this bill... Well, of course it aroused my keen interest, especially in art. 3, which concerns the amendments to the Act previously adopted. The request after reading the basic part of the changes in this article is one and it is obvious: at the time of the entry into force of this law any returns of the property in Warsaw will be stopped, blocked. In these 12 points, even with repetitions, because some points are unnecessarily repeated, actually there is a whole catalogue of situations that oblige the city of Warsaw to refuse to return. Well, you can say now that it's not a good solution, because the owners who have the right to these properties stay, you can say, ripped to shit. 'Cause what are they supposed to do? Well, we found out they could still apply for compensation, compensation in court. It's gonna take time. So far it has been so that Warsaw also hastily, but paid these compensations, and at the moment it will certainly not pay them, at least at the beginning, will wait for the judgment. And then what? Well, you can say that I've been digging into this subject, asking the Minister, and it's clear that we don't know how it's going to be, and it's quite likely that the city of Warsaw will have to pay these compensations as it has been. I think this case will have to be cleared up by the end. If there is any confusion about this issue, we will need a brief amendment of this law It will be clear, in line with what the Minister said, not being sure, but considering, I believe, that such a solution is correct, that such compensation should be paid from the Reprivatisation Fund. This should be made clear and I am committed to keeping an eye on this matter and leading to a complete explanation of it, because this is a key issue. It points out that the city which refuses to release the building, which has so far been subject to claims, therefore it was not possible to make any investments, renovations, so the building fell into a state if not complete destruction, is a partial destruction... that now that it has to refuse to release this building, of course it has to deal with the renovation. Therefore, on the one hand, the city of Warsaw will bear the additional costs of this renovation, and on the other hand it may pay compensation for a year or for two years after the judicial judgment. In addition, we also need to add a continuous discussion about Janosik. Warsaw pays very high Janoskie, probably about PLN 1 billion. The argument behind this It is supposedly rational that Warsaw has a large income and according to an algorithm that is developed, this is what it should pay. Yeah, except it's been repeated many times that income is one thing, and spending is another. And since the metropolis has some particular expenses that other cities don't have, there has to be an adjustment to this algorithm. And in this situation such specific expenses are precisely expenses for compensation and renovation of all those buildings that could not be touched over the years, simply for years. Well, if we don't change Janosik rules, let's at least settle the compensation case, 'cause it's like hitting this capital all the time, telling her she's got everything and everything she's got, it's just dirty. That's one thing. The second thing is, as we look at the history of phrases, which is since the 1990s... In the 1990s, apartments were returned quite quickly, and then problems started, because they had already appeared to return apartments with tenants and there appeared buildings of public interest, so the city, of course, had to delay decisions, run away from it, argue with owners. Of course, this resulted in various compensations, etc. And there was this little bill that I mentioned at the beginning, which blocked things. But she did, Minister, when we talked about it... We said it was absolutely necessary to do this, because it is about hospitals, schools, universities, that is, cases that concern all residents, but nevertheless there must be a large reprivatization bill that will eventually close this topic, not only in Warsaw, but also in the whole country. And indeed, there was a draft of such a law, Mr.Patryk, who then seemed to have been very promoting it. He flew through like a meteor and disappeared. We found out here because the questions were that he is, but you don't work on him. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to give the government a compliment. Namely, I proposed this law many times earlier, still at the beginning of the 21st century, when another bill appeared. I believe that there was a generally correct solution, i.e. that we turn only part, relatively small, about 20%, and that in the form of bonds, multi-annual bonds, therefore the budget will not bear the consequences immediately, but much later, to that they will be spread over time. Then we'd definitely be able to handle it. In fact, the only problem that arose from this was that this project did not involve Polish citizens of Jewish origin. I'm not talking about inheritance-free property right now, because it's a different subject, but I'm talking about heirs. It was said that it was necessary to be a Polish citizen in order to be able to participate in all this, and the heirs of our Jewish citizens today live elsewhere, are not Polish citizens. It was a terrible mistake that caused... Of course, the government immediately realized that such a law would simply create an international conflict, because the fact that the heirs who live abroad could not participate in this process would be a gross violation of all the rules and withdrawal of the bill, nothing further does with it. Today the Minister says: yes, of course, this bill which we are now proposing is only a transitional step towards a large reprivatization bill. Well, we've had so many transition stages... As you know, provisionals are the most durable and last the longest. That is why I want to make it clear, Minister, that right now until the next election. If by chance they are not accelerated, they are 3 years old, and really if you do not prepare a large reprivatization over these 3 years, it will simply be a disgrace to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u228	Thank you, Senator. I'm gonna ask Senator Aleksander Pociej to approach the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have two aspects in this bill. The first concerns amendments to the Law on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estate, namely the Act which set up and regulated the Commission. When it comes to changes in this area, they raise little emotions and doubts. Most of the proposed amendments were approved by the government. That's just an indication. Because these are quite important changes to how imprecise and flawed this law has been, which has been in operation for nearly 3 years. Because these changes we're talking about here are very serious. This is the first aspect. The second aspect concerns the Real Estate Management Act. And here the problem is much deeper and the differences between the government side, parliamentarians, Senators of the Civic Coalition and also representatives of the capital city of Warsaw are much more serious. Senator Borowski spoke about a small reprivatization law from 2015, which entered into force in 2016. Senator Borowski and I worked on this bill together. It seems to me, at least this is what I heard from city representatives after 4 years of its operation, has helped the city, the inhabitants, to slow down these most pathological phenomena that have grown around reprivatization and which have laid a deep shadow at all on reprivatization. And, of course, the fundamental mistake was the omission that was mentioned here many times today, that it was not introduced, at least in the light of the law on the assets of Zagużań, solutions that would have cut through, even in the 1990s, this problem. The authors of the 2016 Act were quite heavily attacked At least I'm connected by the environment related to the sale of real estate. But I have no doubt that limiting and giving Warsaw's capital city the opportunity to block returns in the nature of real estate such as schools or hospitals had a profound social sense. However, it was very right to put in place a blockade of the operation and the sale of rights without any supervision, at least under the supervision of the notariat. Having said that, and at that time we were aware that our actions in some way interfered with property rights, we weighed on the public interest of a very broad social group, because the inhabitants of Warsaw, on the one hand, and on the other hand the heirs, I think that this submission goes too far. I was quoting today, reporting to the High House the proceedings of the committee, the opinion of the Chief Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office, who, at least in relation to 2 provisions, absolutely disagreed with the possibility of adopting such a procedure, adopting such provisions. After consulting our Legislative Office, after consulting the representatives of Warsaw's capital city, they were submitted and adopted at a joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Local Government of the amendment, which causes these most controversial records to be eliminated. At least that's the committee's recommendation. What are these records about? Well, first of all, these changes that were proposed, which we proposed together with Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, cause that where it is not the capital city Warsaw makes a decision, where it is not the host... We do not want to allow the costs of wrong decisions in such situations, and, unfortunately, in the light of the case-law of the court, we have had to deal with decisions of the committee, to burden the city. They should not burden the city of Warsaw. As for those single-family homes that Senator Jackowski was talking about and the president was talking about, we also believe that the cost of managing single-family homes is not at all adequate for what can be obtained, especially since in most cases We know this from the statements of the Warsaw authorities, the capital tenants are those who may possibly recover these properties. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely illogical that this is some aberration to block the return of the property to the person who is the tenant, but at the same time is to be the beneficiary of this return. In practice, we are dealing with tens of thousands of problems, if not hundreds of thousands of cooperative members in Warsaw, where we have this situation, that in respect of some piece of real estate on which the cooperative house is built, it cannot be regulated for various reasons. Because we don't know the heirs, or we have a situation where one heir is known... [[Mr. Senator, I shyly remind you that...]] ...and they're not known to the others. In light of what I said, we'll recommend, as the committee did... I will recommend to my colleagues that in the revised article. In Article 3, the following paragraph is added: 214a eliminate all conditions that are vague or bring more losses than the profits of the capital city of Warsaw or its inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u230	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will now perform. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Senate! This is not the first time we have touched on issues related to the broadly understood reprivatisation. And there is always one general conclusion from our debates, discussions, disputes about the specific shape of the amendments, the scope of the amendment or the law in question, and there is one fundamental issue that is the cause of all these problems. This was mentioned by Marshal Borowski, and was mentioned by Senator Pociej. Well, High Izbo, unfortunately, is hiccuping us, I will say colloquially, that at the beginning of systemic changes in 1989, or shortly after 1989, no solutions were adopted which would be aimed at ordering property relations in the territory of the Republic of Poland. That's the problem. Poland is probably one of the few countries We know one or two such countries from the former countries of folk democracy in which there is no such system solution. This is the problem that all Central and Central Eastern European countries are facing. Here's what I'm gonna say: the Latvians, how they got independence... I think the second bill that was passed there was a reprivatization bill. There was a problem. For example, the property of the Germans, which was large. These issues have been addressed and this has allowed Latvia to develop freely economically and socially. The President gave a number that is shocking: 20% of the capital city of Warsaw, which is more than 500 km2... means 20% real estate, maybe in this way, to be precise, has an unregulated ownership status. Not much, this catalog is actually unknown. We are talking about land which, under the decree of Bierut, were communalized or nationalised, but there was also agricultural reform. We know that the present Warsaw is not within the capital city of 1945, but is much wider. And there is, for example, the problem of Wilanov, the property after Branicki, huge areas. This is a problem that is very real. There were various plots there, there is no telling which conclusions as to how they will be decided, and yet there are tens of thousands of people living there today. This shows the scale of the problem, and the conclusions can come. The capital city of Warsaw itself, as the President said, estimates the number of these applications at 4,000, and may influence new ones. The situation is fluid. Of course, the number of applications concerns the former municipality of the Centre. For those who do not know, let's say that once the capital city of Warsaw was a union of communes. In 2002, Warsaw was reunited. The municipality of the Centre with 7 districts was basically an area lying about, please don't hold my word, within the pre-war administrative boundaries of the city of Warsaw. More or less, not exactly, just more or less. So that the problem is huge, because it significantly inhibits the spatial development of Warsaw, the economic development of Warsaw. I mean, how do you run a normal real estate business if there's legal doubts about who owns the property? And, of course, there are social matters, which are perhaps the loudest, most often publicized in the media, show the harm of the tenants, the God of the guilty spirit, who actually had a accommodation assignment, lived, and as a result of various activities, this wild, as it was termed, reprivatization loses the possibility to reside. And I'll tell you more, something that hasn't come up in this debate yet. Namely, if we return to these houses or to buildings at all, High Izbo, it must be said that a large part of these buildings will soon be in the state of technical death. What does that mean? This means that by law, existing residents will be accommodated. Why? Because there is an irregular status and even an administration that wishes to make an effort cannot do it is limited to the minimum minimum minimum. And in a moment, there may be a paradox that under this city law it will be worthwhile to lodge the residents precisely because of the technical condition of the building property and return such property so-called. Ex-owner. This is another area associated with actions, with the absence of this primary cause and the fact that we in Poland have 3 key categories of so-called. Former owners. The first ones are those who lost ownership as a result of World War II and, above all, agricultural reform; I am already overlooking the decree about forests or the nationalization of industry, because these are more detailed solutions. The second group are victims of lex specialis for Warsaw, this decree of Bierut concerning Warsaw. The third group, not small, is those who lost their property, i.e. those Polish citizens who lost their property as a result of the correction of borders in the east of Poland. And please note that each of these groups is in a different legal situation and likewise has a clear constitutional right to claims relating to the loss of property if it has occurred in violation of the law. So, High Izbo, it all points together I don't want to go into details anymore, I don't want to prolong my speech. In order to ensure that this law, which we are investigating, is in place in the area of the verification commission, provides the opportunity to apply effectively for compensation to those tenants who are victims of wild reprivatisation. And rightly so, this case should be settled as much as possible. But it does not solve the essence of the problem, that is, the problem we are facing, especially in terms of different international expectations from the Polish side. This is perhaps a side topic to this particular law, but a subject that is closely related to it. And until this case is resolved... And let me remind you that, under international law, any proprietary claims resulting from war activities are not subject to statute of limitations. So that it is not that in a few decades the claims in this respect will cease to be law. In total, this problem can be a political, geopolitical, moral, social and economic problem for Poland. Therefore, for all these reasons, I believe that the reason of the Polish state is the adoption of a reprivatization law. I don't want to tell you what she's supposed to be like, what kind of rules she's supposed to be based on. As a Member of the Election Action Solidarity, I took part in the adoption of the bill, just like Mr Marshal Borusewicz and a few people in this Chamber, like Mr Marshal Borowski, the only reprivatization bill that passed through Parliament, but came across President Aleksandr Kwasniewski's veto. Let me put it this way: if this law were to come into force, we would be in a different situation today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u232	Thank you, Senator. I'd still like to sign up... Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, this situation we are facing, especially in Warsaw, where the Bieruta Decree was, is particularly difficult and particularly complicated. Mr. Senator mentioned different categories of property or owners. I would add another category, so-called. To have a dead hand. And in this case... That's the church property that was taken by the state. In this case alone, reprivatisation or compensation or repayment of replacement property was probably carried out in full. Other categories of owners are hitting on the courts by a complex, difficult one, which generates costs for those who are running, but also compensation costs of various types. I believe that this bill will also move towards a fair return of property As far as possible, of course. I agree that the possibility must be secured for residents who live in these housing resources... Of course, we cannot bring about the situation we have faced in some cases. And I thought this bill was gonna go that way. For me, therefore, it is incomprehensible, why it is not possible to return to the owners of single-family homes, it is completely incomprehensible to me, in which the owners, heirs of these former owners, live. There's more than 500 of them, as I heard at the committee meeting. It is also completely incomprehensible to me how you can enter into the directory the possibility of refusing a recipe that speaks about acceptance or consent of other tenants... [[Voice from the room: Neighbors.]] I'm sorry about the neighborhood's agreement. It's just a recipe to block any possibility. Why else would a neighbor agree? What does he care anyway? We know what the situation is when you make some linear investments when you have to take the road. We know what neighborhood situations are and how you feel about this. So these two parts are completely incomprehensible to me. Why is the Ministry going this way? Instead of simply trying to unlock the family homes that generate actual costs and slowly... How slow? Now. If there are no major repairs, they are already in ruins. Of course, I think that we should improve this law, which has introduced such a strange institution, but it must also be improved so that it works better, and at the same time we should take a step towards returning those properties where this return is possible. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski volunteered. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u233	Warsaw should, of course, be sympathetic. Being the president of Wrocław, I didn't have that kind of trouble. Nor on such a scale, nor on such a scale, was there such a past or a delay at the same time. I have decided to speak on one important issue, the issue of these national goods of the highest quality, the highest scale, the highest importance. The first problems I had when I became Minister of Culture were problems. just with the ground under the National Opera, with a dispute over the property of the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw at Krakowskie Przedmieście, with the mentioned issues related to Wilanów, i.e. the dispute with Branicki, or Otwock, the Jezierski family... There's one thing I want to suggest. In order to try to share the problem with all of these solutions, because one law will not regulate all these issues, which Mr Marshals also mentioned at the end. I would suggest that we take advantage of the experience of those countries which have made lists of exemptions for these most important, extremely valuable land and facilities which should be particularly protected by the State. And with only such an appeal, I make such a suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Janusz Błucherz, submitted their speeches to the minutes. You have made proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Wojciech Necessary. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? There you go. Maybe you're on the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u235	I will briefly refer to those voices that appeared during the discussion. It is clear that, in particular, Mr Jackowski's speech showed that some of the senators in previous terms were able to reach an agreement to find solutions to this problem. I hope it works again. It takes a lot of goodwill to come to this agreement, as I mentioned in my speech. In the discussion about costs, I pointed out that we must all be aware that the co-ownership for the financial consequences of such a solution... Mr. Marshal Borowski reminded us of the solution regarding the percentage of the value paid in bonds. This is the solution proposed also in 2017. As I mentioned, in the Ministry of Justice, we did not obtain consent to the full text of the bill... Mr. Marshal, I would like to stress that the work has not been suspended. We are still obtaining new information, but we have not presented a new text. If there is political will in our camp, this work will certainly be intensified. It seems to me that after certain matters concerning the settlement of what was happening in Warsaw, and the assessment of all these problems which resulted from reprivatization... This is the moment to look for these solutions in the spirit of compromise. This discussion cannot be conducted in such a way that the government is burdened by the local government and vice versa. Nevertheless, these properties serve Warsaw and it cannot be that we turn only towards the Treasury... It is also obvious that the Treasury of the State of Warsaw with this problem cannot leave itself. In this spirit, I would like to conclude my statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u236	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u237	We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Minister of Health's information on the availability of health services during the period of the outbreak of Coronavirus, as well as the presentation of a strategy for health care in the autumn-winter period. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska, to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u238	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High Senate the information of the Minister of Health regarding the availability of health services during the pandemic period, as well as our strategy in the fight against COVID-19 in the autumn-winter period. That is why my speech will be divided into two parts. In the first part, I will address the issue of the availability of health services during the pandemic period. As we all know, at the beginning of March, and exactly 4 March in Poland, the first case of coronavirus infection was reported. It was called patient zero. This has caused many different perturbations as regards Polish health care, because, well, there is a danger that patients who are in the course of therapy, various treatments, may be infected with this infection, infection. Therefore, the President of the National Health Fund issued a communication on 15 March in which he recommended: he recommended In order to minimise the risk of transmission of the COVID-19 virus, it is necessary to limit to the minimum necessary or temporarily suspend the provision of the services provided on a planned basis or in accordance with the agreed medical plan. This message was addressed mainly to hospitals where diagnostics and medical procedures are carried out, including surgical procedures, medical rehabilitation, outpatient care, as well as diagnostic tests such as colonoscopy, gastroscopy, ultrasound, computer scan, magnetic resonance imaging or PET. In any event, the time-limit for granting such a benefit, and in particular in the event of a decision to suspend the granting of such benefits, had to be taken into account and the possible risk this would entail for the patient who does not receive the benefit in question should be assessed. It should be stressed that this was merely a recommendation and concerned situations where the life and health of patients was not at risk or a change in the timing of the benefit would not result in deterioration of the patient's health. The above-mentioned communication also states that, in accordance with the provisions in force, the provider was obliged to... In the event of a change in the delivery deadline and where the patient is to be helped in any way, the provider should contact the patient without delay by means of electronic systems or other communication systems, if necessary. As a result of this communication, most of the providers have actually returned to full benefits at the moment. While there may still be isolated cases of reduced service providers' functioning, these are mainly cases where, for example, There's someone in the hospital ward infected with a coronavirus or a hospital operating in the so-called convention. single name hospitals, i.e. hospitals, which were intended exclusively for patients infected with COVID-19. So that, at the moment when the planned activities of health care institutions are being restored, the priority is to avoid unnecessary risks for those who report to them. Therefore, on our sites, but also on the health inspector's website, there are instructions and recommendations on how healthcare providers should take these patients in order not to expose them to unnecessary risks of coronavirus infection. It should also be noted that those patients who did not present themselves to the healthcare providers within the time limits laid down for the provision of health care due to the possibility of infection with COVID-19 have been given the possibility that the provider is obliged to set a new time limit for the provision of the benefit without having to assume that the failure to notify was due to force majeure. We know that the COVID epidemic is such a premise. Therefore, a request for return to the waiting list should be submitted to the provider no later than 14 days after the end of the epidemic period. The new time limit for granting the benefit should take into account the date of notification to the provider for inclusion on the waiting list, which means that the order according to which the original time limit for granting the benefit was set will be maintained. We know that during the pandemic period, some institutions suspended their healing activities. Thus, at 3 September 2020, i.e. these data are quite fresh, the number of suspended places of healthcare provision is as follows. I'm not gonna read all the data, I'm gonna focus on the most important benefits that most patients report to. Outpatient specialized care There are 7,000 316 places in Poland where 424, or 5.8%, are not active at the moment. As far as hospital treatment is concerned, there are 1 thousand 629 places where such benefits are provided in Poland, 178 are currently suspended, or 10.9%. Palliative care and hospice care 703 places of benefits, at the moment suspended activity has 1 such place, i.e. 0.1%. I think it's pretty important. In Poland there are 21 thousand 680, according to our and the National Health Fund, at the moment the activity is suspended is 21 establishments, i.e. 0.1%. Caring and caring services 2 000 112 places of delivery, suspended activity at the moment have 3 such facilities, i.e. 0.1%. In summary, the number of places in Poland is 49 000 303, the suspended activity currently has 2 000 3 places, i.e. 4% on the national scale. institutions have a suspended activity and do not provide medical benefits. To conduct surveillance... In order to be aware of the activity of these places of benefit, the National Health Fund shall exercise control. Because of the COVID-19 epidemic in March, these controls were sort of... not like, they were just suspended because the covidov law even stopped the control process. The checks already started due to the potential risk of coronavirus infection of controllers have also been suspended. On 27 July this year, the National Health Fund resumed its checks. This mainly concerns open medicine, i.e. POZ, specialist care, dentistry and psychiatry. That's what all the voivodships of the National Health Fund are doing. During this period 2,000 319 clinics were verified. The complaints that had been brought to the Ombudsman were also clarified. These were 973 complaints. These were complaints of different types, as an example I can tell you that a 92-year-old patient, in order to contact a family doctor and get teleporadio, had to sign up to this family doctor by e-mail and we know that this is a big problem for older people. After the intervention of an NFZ official, the doctor communicated on the phone with the patient. We also have signals from a number of places that unfortunately the teleport doesn't work, because a telephone box keeps coming in. Those places are left. checked, and I don't think that's gonna happen again. I will also present to you what resources we have at the moment in terms of medical staff. I'll focus mostly on doctors. On 13 August 2020 there are 25,000 798 doctors and dentists during specialization training in Poland. During the residency there are 19,000 543 doctors. As of July 2, the number of specialists is 135,000 47. The number of professionals who do their job, i.e. they are active, active professionally, is 126,000 254 doctors, that's 93%. all specialist doctors. Doctors of first degree specialists I mean, they're doctors who've gotten a degree in first degree. There are 50,000 256 people. The professional activity is 42,000 834 - 85% all medical professionals in the first degree. To sum up, there are 185,000 303 doctors in Poland at the moment. He's active in the profession of 169,000 93 doctors, that's 91%. The total number of doctors and dentists in Poland is 177 thousand 446. I will also remind you on this occasion that since 2015 we have increased the recruitment for medical and dental training by almost 2 000 places. In the academic year 2019/2020, 9,000 568 doctors study medical and dental courses... i.e. future doctors, i.e. currently students. In addition, 22 areas have been identified as priority areas, i.e. the so-called. We want the most specialists in these areas to be in deficit. With regard to the availability of medicinal products during the epidemic, this availability has been constantly monitored. At the Minister there was a special team, which together with the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, but also with the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products, from the E-Health Centre, as well as with the National Health Fund, with the participation of the Chief Pharmacy Chamber and the Chief Medical Chamber, was constantly monitoring the problem of availability of medicines and we did not notice any major problems with this availability. Certainly at the beginning of the pandemic, that is, in March 2020, when the pandemic of Coronavirus started in Poland, we observed quite a large buy-out of medicines, but it was just mostly wrestling because people didn't know what was going to happen in Poland, which is why this sale of medicines was much bigger. At the moment, the situation is already normalized and no one in Poland buys medicines for backup. I would also like to remind you that before the outbreak of Coronavirus, we have eliminated certain limits. The queues have decreased significantly in terms of computer scans, MRIs, cataract surgeries. We have also abolished limits on specialized outpatient care in the field of primary counseling in the field of endocrinology, endocrinology for children, cardiology, paediatric cardiology, neurology, paediatric neurology, orthopedics and traumatology of movement, orthopedics and traumatology of movement for children, outpatient care from indications of sudden orthopedic and traumatic indications of movement organs, as well as in the same category for children. I think that what was a very good tool during the pandemic period was an extensive ICT tool. We know that thanks to e-reception, e-release, as well as the fact that teleports were provided by electronic means... I think it's caused the patients not to have to go to the family doctor's clinic after an extension of the medication after getting a prescription. This enabled us to avoid what had happened during the previous epidemics, that it was the waiting rooms of family doctors that infected each other. We also launched a patient on the platform. gov.pl so-called POZ teleports. It was already teleported not by its own family doctor, but by family doctors who signed such an agreement with the National Health Fund. This platform was open, and is open, 24 hours a day, also on Sundays and holidays. There you may have consulted your doctor if there were any disturbing symptoms or malaise, you may also have discussed your test results, your blood sugar level, your blood pressure, you may also have received an e-prescription or e-release. During the pandemic period from 1 July, additional funds were directed to hospitals and specialist clinics, to POZ, and there is an additional 3% the amounts of invoices that are cleared with the National Health Fund. I think that this increase has fully compensated for the possible costs incurred by the healthcare providers in purchasing, for example. personal protective equipment. Also in July, with a view to the coming autumn, the Minister of Health set up a team in the Ministry to prepare a strategy for the autumn-winter period. The task of this team was primarily to analyse international standards related to the fight against COVID-19. We know that many countries have such standards, although they sometimes do not agree to our conditions, but it is worth knowing about the methods of fighting COVID-19 in other countries. That's why this team also analyzed such standards. This team also examined the preparation of medical entities and other entities and services to combat COVID-19. He also developed a strategy for testing people for coronavirus infection, analyzed the preparation and functioning of infectious single-name hospitals. He also developed a strategy for the further operation of these hospitals. And it was the last point that focused on the flu incidence, in particular as regards testing and the level of population empowerment. I'm going to move on right now to a strategy that's a strategy that's worked out for autumn. Why did we even change our strategy against the coronavirus compared to the spring period? We know we're at a slightly different stage when it comes to pandemics. We learned to live with the coronavirus, to live with the coronavirus. I think patients can behave differently now than in March-April, at the time when the coronavirus appeared. That is why we set ourselves three main objectives: we wanted to increase the efficiency of the use of infrastructure and human resources, increase the ability to test and improve health inspection activities. As far as the first point is concerned, I'm going to say that we've left the idea of single-name hospitals. In the spring this concept worked out, single-name hospitals took on quite a heavy burden when it comes to the treatment of patients infected with the coronavirus. There were quite a lot of places there, let me remind you that in the spring of hospitals there were 22 single names. At the peak of the diseases, these hospitals were used in 25%, i.e. 1/4, but let me remind you that when we referred to the operation of single-name hospitals throughout Western Europe, in many countries there were thousands of new people every day who not only had a positive effect on Coronavirus but also needed hospitalisation. It was a time when, for example. In Italy, more than a thousand people died a day. We wanted to be prepared if there were such a wave of coranavir in Poland, and we wanted Polish doctors not to have to choose who to connect to a ventilator, and to whom to refuse this medical procedure, and we know that unfortunately such situations happened in Western European countries. But because this availability was not so used that it was quite large hospitals and that sometimes for patients who were not infected with the koravirus and were in the field of the activities of these hospitals, this availability was limited, we changed this philosophy and divided hospital treatment for patients with COVID-19 into 3 levels. The first level is the lowest level, these are usually county hospitals. In these hospitals. The voivodship's decisions on this matter have already been made. The isolation sites will be created for patients who go there and are waiting for the results of the COVID-19 test, or for patients who are suspected to be infected with the coronavirus, but for whom lifesaving procedures need to be implemented here and now. These decisions have been made, hospitals will have to prepare such places. Also by the National Health Fund is already prepared such a product, these places will be ready, i.e. if there are no patients in them, the hospital will receive money for them. We also want these places not to be separated from a branch, but if they are, we will honor it, too, so that these are additional places. So this pool of places in the roar can be added to additional places for patients suspected of being coronavirus or with a coravirus who will have first aid provided in these hospitals. On the second level, there are hospitals in which patients with COVID-19 will already be treated. There'll be 87 hospitals like this. These are infectious hospitals, hospitals with infectious wards and so-called. single-name hospitals which are no longer on level three. We predict that in these hospitals patients will be treated who require either the care of infectors or the care of internists, but also those who will require the care of ICUs, i.e. they will be internist-infectious hospitals with the support of intensive care. And the last level is level three, that's the kind of hospital we've dialed 9. These are multi-specialized hospitals, hospitals where assistance will be given to a patient who has already been diagnosed with a coronavirus and requires internal, neonatological, obstetric, orthopedic-traumatic, surgical, neurological or cardiological assistance. So these hospitals are going to have patients who need high-specialized help. We're not giving up our strategy for the fall of insulators for patients. At the moment we have 21 such objects with more than 2,000 places. We know that patients who are asymptomatic or clumsy do not always want to be isolated in their environment, where they stay on a daily basis, i.e. in their home or apartment, because they do not want to endanger their fellow residents. These are places for them, places where they can spend their isolation period. They will continue to function so-called. ambulances, i.e. ambulances, which will go to patients who cannot report to mobile points. And at the place of residence, these patients will be swabbed. As far as medical transport is concerned, so-called. covidowy transport, it is currently in Poland 148 ambulances, which are dedicated exclusively to the transport of patients infected with koravirus. We also want to run about 10 ambulances in the so-called standard. Eskimo ambulances, that's an ambulance with a doctor on board. If a patient needs to be brought to a multi-specialist hospital and this transport will require intensive medical care, such an ambulance will be able to carry out such transport. Of course, there is also the Air Emergency Service, which is also equipped with means to transport patients from COVID-19. We want to increase the number of mobile swab points, so-called. Drive-thru points where you can report and where the swab is downloaded. At the moment there are 262 such points, 212 counties in Poland have such points. We want these points in each district to be quite densely distributed. We have increased the valuation of the activity of such a point. So far, these points have been running for up to two hours, and now we want them to work for at least four hours. If necessary, these points will work longer. As far as testing strategy is concerned, I think this is a very important thing We should test as many people as possible. As other European countries do, we will be testing people with symptoms suggestive of coronavirus infection, as well as people who are starting spa or rehabilitation treatment. We will also test people who will be admitted to hospices, ZOL or DPS. There will also be testing of asymptomatic patients. This will continue to be the testing of people who will be in the so-called. epidemiological investigation carried out by sanitary and epidemiological stations, as well as testing in the development of large outbreaks of infection, as it was in the spring, i.e. in large workplaces, e.g. in the mines. We also want to use it, and it's happening right now... We want large places where there are quite a number of patients, i.e. hospital emergency departments or emergency rooms, to have the possibility of so-called. antigen testing. This is a fairly fast test that lasts from 10 to 30 minutes. All SORs in Poland will receive these tests, they will receive devices by which it is tested. 21 large admission rooms in Poland will also receive these tests. We've got 500,000 of these tests right now. These tests are mainly intended for full-sensory patients. They are not intended for scrining, they are intended for the examination of a patient with full symptoms suggesting a coronavirus infection. The positive test will be for the person who takes care of the patient, warning the possibility that the patient is infected is almost 100 percent. Of course, this test will be repeated, genetically. As we have always said, we want to promote... I encourage the senators to pay attention to the preservation of social distance, the use of disinfection and masks. It's the easiest, but I think a very important prevention of coronavirus infection. The last thing I want to say is flu shots. I'm sure there'll be a lot of questions in this regard. We've introduced free vaccinations for people aged 75+. In the case of persons aged between sixty-five and seventy-five, the remuneration shall be 50%. In the case of persons under the age of sixty-five who have co-morbid conditions, a family doctor may issue a prescription for the refund of such a vaccine, with a payment of 50%. For the first time, an influenza vaccine for children appeared in the refund, i.e. for children between the ages of three and five. It's a nasal vaccine, very comfortable. I think it's acceptable not only for the child, but also for the parents. We've introduced free vaccinations for health care professionals. I think that prevention in the case of this professional group during the autumn period, when the flu appears next to Coronavirus... will unfortunately affect Polish health care. As part of our autumn strategy, we have put in place a solution to enable POZ, i.e. family doctors, to be able to direct the test. In our original strategy, we wanted this to be done as a personal visit to the family doctor. We have many, many signals that right now the contact between the patient and the family doctor Unfortunately, it takes place mostly in the teleport. This is a very good tool, but a tool that unfortunately will not cause the diagnosis of our disease to be complete. That is why we want family doctors to be involved, especially in the autumn, in this care system, in the process of verifying possible patients with COVID-19. After consulting the medical community, we eased this requirement of direct contact with the family doctor as to the possibility of carrying out tests. At the moment, a family doctor may order a test if the patient reports these 4 underlying symptoms of Coronavirus, i.e. fever above 38o, cough, shortness of breath, smell or taste disorder during the teleporad. It's done through the office application. gov.pl. Today's data shows that 1 000 700 were placed for testing in the direction of COVID-19 through this application. For several days now, we have seen a systematic increase in the scale of commissioning these studies. We know that there are little perturbations, because not all family doctors' offices have access to this application, but I think it's an IT issue to get that access. We do, and it's happening right now to... It's about the full electronicization of the state sanitary service. A special helpline will be in operation soon, which will no longer absorb health workers, where we will definitely be able to call and obtain information with which we will report to the State Sanitary Inspection. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister a question? There's a list of questions. The first question you ask is Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a few questions, but I will choose the most important ones after this report by the Minister. You told me about the vaccines, the anti-gryptic prophylaxis. We all know that during the autumn period the infection of COVID-19 will most likely coincide with the flu. The symptoms are very similar. I'm interested in these vaccines, the Ministry's security, the vaccine supplies. I already have a lot of information today that these vaccines just don't exist. In a thirty-eight-million-dollar country, in recent years, there have been about 4.1% of the population. But a wide campaign for vaccination has made this interest much bigger. You were talking about refunds in certain age groups for seniors over the age of sixty-five, over the age of seventy-five. However, in my experience in the last week, the number of vaccines in pharmacies is 2, 3 vaccines. How do you want to solve this problem in the near future? When and how many vaccines will be available in pharmacies, so that family doctors can write these prescriptions calmly and so that we can increase this prognosis according to our patients' expectations? That's my first question. Second question. I'm asking you to bring me up to speed on getting out of quarantine because I don't know if I have any good information. I want you to verify that at the end of quarantine, after 10 days, you will not be testing whether such a patient is negative or not. Of course, maybe it's some kind of expertise from other countries. But we also need to know that these patients are going to the offices, to the hospitals. And then there's an increased risk of virus transmission, both between patients and among medical personnel. My third question: will the vaccination process of our patients during this autumn period, when the flu is approaching, be attended by nurses? This was requested by the nurses' and midwives' chambers or by the nurses' and midwives' agreements. Are you predicting that if there is an increase in influenza, the nurses can also carry out such vaccinations themselves? And, of course, in general... Oh, and then there's the teleporad system. The absent Deputy Minister Cieszyński was very fascinated by teleporades. Unfortunately, they have... I'm glad you said that this is incomplete medical advice, because indeed these teleports have their own harvest. Patient organizations are beating the alarms because patients can't get through to medical facilities, they don't get help. I think a lot of people, well, at least in my environment... This has repeatedly resulted in a very large failure, even in death, when patients were unable to perform an EKG or doctor's examination. So that here I very much request that teleports be possible for those patients who are already in the process of treatment, and that all first-time patients be examined by doctors of first contact. I think the role of medical personnel during the epidemic And it doesn't end, it doesn't all look so pink in practice. It's very important. I'd like to remind you that maybe I'll just say it in the discussion because I volunteered. That there are institutions that are absolutely continuous. And I can't imagine not helping my patients under these circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u241	Okay, just a minute. I only have one formal remark, I always do. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please follow this rule of law that we have a minute to ask the question. Don't put such a series of questions to the Minister. 'Cause then you're usually here. again dissatisfied with the answer. It is better to ask the question again, and then the Minister will answer all the questions carefully. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u242	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Maybe I'll start at the end. Mrs. Senator, I think the teleport is a great solution, too, but, as life shows, it is not a panacea when it comes to treating a patient, and there is certainly nothing to replace physical contact with a patient, a face-to-face encounter. That is why we want this availability to be as high as possible for primary healthcare professionals in particular. Family doctors declare that they're open. Unfortunately, we have signals that in total in POZ, but there are also cases in some hospitals, a patient with fever is kind of pushed away from the door. We want this availability to be much greater. That's why we introduced it so that this test can be performed after the patient's physical examination. Well, family doctors are kind of skeptical about it. That's why we need to find some way to find the gold center so the doctor can be protected... But I think that we should also think about patients who should be able to get to this doctor not only by teleporad, but also in a physical way. When it comes to flu vaccination by nurses, I have talked to a group of experts on several occasions about flu. Indeed, the flu vaccine is a vaccine that is reasonably safe and can be vaccinated by a nurse without medical supervision. This is the case in many countries. There is a proposal to include pharmacists in this. So this is certainly a good direction to make the availability of influenza vaccine much greater. As for the question of leaving quarantine without ending this stay with a test, we have verified it, because in many countries this is the case and this 14-day period when you are in quarantine is being reduced in many countries at the moment. We already know that in Germany the Robert Koch Institute also recommends a 10-day period. He'll be in France any minute. All forensics say that if we don't have any symptoms for 10 days, then after this period practically 'Cause, of course, that's not gonna happen. We no longer pose a threat to those we face. The first question concerned influenza vaccination. I think this is such a hot topic right now. I'll just remind you that ordering vaccines takes place in a 2-year cycle, which is 2 years in advance. And again demand is probably occurring in February, which was in the month when we were just starting to face the pandemic. Just like you. I said, unfortunately in Poland approx. 4% population. This is a very bad result. I am glad that this year a much larger number of Poles want to become infected with the flu. At the moment, we have reports that people report to pharmacies and that vaccine is missing. But those deliveries that are scheduled have a schedule arranged. If you are interested, I will state that in the first week of September 200 000 vaccines were sent to Polish pharmacies, in this week another 200 000, in the third week of September. Because the peak of vaccination is most often at the end of September and October, 400 000 vaccines will be delivered, and at the end of September and October, 500 000 vaccines will be delivered to Polish pharmacies. Then gradually... We want this number to be 2 million vaccines throughout October. In the last week of September, there will also be vaccinations for children. There'll be 50,000 of them. And in the first week of October, 114,000 vaccines for health care. Is that enough? Well, here the experts' opinions are divided. Practically no one can tell what number of vaccines, whether for the flu or possibly for Coronavirus, will be sufficient to inoculate the population. Experts in Poland say that this empowerment will certainly be greater, but not as much as we would like it to be. And from the information we have from the pharmacists, it appears that actually now the questions for the flu vaccine are happening, but they're not hundreds of thousands of patients, they're tens. And I think this delivery at the turn of September and October should show us whether this number of vaccines is really sufficient. I just remind you that last year several tens of thousands of vaccines had to be disposed of because they were not purchased by Poles. [[And how much was purchased last year?]] Okay, 1 million 400 grand, that was such a big one. [[That's it, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u243	The next question you ask is Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Minister! Maybe I'll continue with this vaccine. Why hasn't the Ministry of Health secured vaccination vaccines for the moment? You yourself are a doctor, and you know it's best to hook up right now, in September, before you accumulate the disease and the flu, and the coritotus, which is suspected. Why aren't these vaccines here? I'll tell you, I called every pharmacy in Warsaw today. There are queue lists everywhere and there's no way to buy a vaccine. This isn't right. Second question. How does the Ministry want to secure the return of quite a number of patients who have been removed during lockdown from specialist counseling, from specialist treatment, from treatments, from cancer diagnosis, from doing, for example, because in this case they write to me, spirometry? And that's question number three, specific I ask you to answer in writing if the Minister can't answer that question right now. How is the spirometric test secured? What rules have the Ministry of Health prepared for performing spirometry? Because, as you know, it's a respite of all the air from your lungs and in case someone's infected... And these are patients, asthmatics, those who have symptoms similar to the symptoms of coronavirus. You said it sounded beautiful that there were so many doctors. My question is this, and I ask you to answer in writing how many doctors are already retired? We heard you at the Health Committee meeting at the time, as Bożena Janicka said that a huge percentage of POZ doctors are doctors of retirement age, hence teleports are much safer for them. And you heard what Professor Simon said: teleporades are the destruction of health care. In my speech, I will also quote other entries that refer to these teleporads. Nothing can replace a medical examination and a face conversation is a face, and I think you should do everything you can to get back to normal medicine. And a specific question: will there be a refund of 50% for children only this nasal or other vaccine, vaxigrip, influvac, etc.? That's all I wanted to ask on the first pitch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u245	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! Senator! First of all, I'll start at the end too. This nasal vaccine will be refunded only for children and it will be 50%. As for the number of doctors, I'll remind the senator. I've already told you about it. That it was in our governments that we increased the admission limit for medical studies by 2,000. You know... [[I'm just asking about the retirees.]] ...that medical training doesn't take a year or two that it's a long-term process. The number of students in the medical and dental departments has increased by 2,000. The result will be after a while. Unfortunately, these are neglects from previous years. Well, let's not hide that there could have been more students. As far as specialist treatment is concerned, I also regret that special treatment is often done on the basis of teleporads at the moment. As a surgeon, I can't imagine it at times, but that's what happens. Therefore, as I mentioned in my information, at the moment the National Health Fund has been very active in the action and where these clinics will close, they will not give direct advice to patients, unfortunately they will either be terminated with them or penalties will be imposed. When it comes to spirometry, I'm not sure, perhaps the consultant along with the chief health inspector made some recommendations. I will, of course, answer the senator in writing. In fact, this is a study, as in the case of e.g. pre-operative intubation with high exposure of the person involved. And vaccinations. Senator, in our experience, the highest number of vaccines is available at the turn of September and October. Then more than one million vaccines will be delivered to our pharmacies, only within these two weeks, so whoever wants to inoculate will probably have the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u247	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, three short questions. The first concerns the current situation and the access of patients with other diseases. The Minister spoke about availability in numbers when it comes to hospitalization, specialized care, etc. I'm more interested in indicators. I hope you're analyzing this. I have a question: are you aware that one in three cancer patients has not received proper medical care? This is the report that was prepared by oncology patients. My second question concerns isolation. I just don't have any knowledge here, and I'd like you to explain it to me. I understand that after home isolation in the seventh day, the patient either still has these symptoms and then maybe he's headed to an infectious hospital, or there's no symptoms, and properly the isolation ends, only that without a test. Do I understand that there is no control test in this situation? And the question is, who oversees such a patient? The police have done it so far. What's it gonna look like right now? And the third question. I'm not gonna ask you about flu vaccination anymore, although it's a very important topic, because these vaccines aren't really here right now. But I would like to ask, on the basis of what Mr Pinkas did at the conference you hosted two days ago, he said there would be vaccines at the turn of the year, vaccinations against COVID. After that, as the Minister knows perfectly well, the next day AstraZeneca withdrew, as it were, reserved for her further production of vaccines, she had doubts. My question is, has the medical registration office spoken on this issue? What was the EMA's position that Minister Pinkas spoke so clearly about these vaccines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u249	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u250	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'll start from the end, too. It's not just this one company that's doing research on the coronavirus vaccine, although this company that the senator mentioned, actually, has quite advanced research. This is the last stage, the third stage. I was worried about that information, too. Will it affect the fact that this vaccine will appear later? I don't know right now. Perhaps so, perhaps not. But from the information that we get from many pharmaceutical companies, not only from AstraZeneca, but from other companies, it appears that they are about ready to deliver such a vaccine at the turn of December and January. Although I always say that this vaccine, in addition to being effective, must be a safe vaccine, i.e. a period of testing and preparation of this product in the form of a vaccine in my opinion must be maintained. We know there's already a vaccine in Russia against the coronavirus. Well, the World Health Organization, and not only the World Health Organization, asks whether all protocols have been preserved or whether all periods, the number of volunteers in these tests have been preserved. We don't know that, so it's hard for us to tell if this vaccine is effective and safe. It's a matter of isolation. If the patient is only positive and has no symptoms, then after 10 days from this isolation comes out. In isolation, it's a little different than quarantine. In the seventh day, the patient receives a text message to contact his family doctor on the next day, who will collect an interview from him. And if the patient doesn't have symptoms, he can come out of isolation after 10 days. Of course, the same way the police will be here until now, because such a patient has to be isolated. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Minister, will he have a test done?]] No, once we're out of isolation, there won't be a test like that. These are the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and recommendations in many countries. As far as availability is concerned with oncology patients... the senator said so. If we compare data from 8 months of 2019, the year in which there was no Coronavirus pandemic, with data from 2020... The number of DiLO cards issued is 91%. what was in 2019. The greatest decrease in availability We're talking about cards that are issued in POZ, in specialist medicine, in laboratory medicine, and in hospitals, he was in 2 months. It was April and May. But as early as July and August, the cards issued were far more than in the same months in 2019. In August... The latest figures show that 19,000 517 cards were issued and 19,000 549 were issued last year. It's practically a comparable number. We have talked many times about patients not delaying a doctor's appointment so that they do not postpone diagnostics and prophylaxis, because in the case of cancer diseases, as you know perfectly well, any delay, every oversight sometimes results in very negative outcomes when it comes to the process of further treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u251	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions. The first question is that many responsibilities have been passed on to family doctors. I'm talking about teleporads. And there's a change here that patients aren't supposed to go to health care to do research, only to family doctors. This is a heavy burden. There's gonna be a lot of teleporad visits. By force, these visits will be subject to a certain risk for doctors, because without examining the patient they will have to decide what to do next. And in this context, I ask the Minister whether work is planned on amending the Penal Code on Article. 37a, which the Senate sent to the Sejm. The point is that in a situation where doctors are actually placed at greater risk of work, they should not impose a penalty on an absolute prison in the event of a mistake. That's the first question. The second question concerns the clearance of a lump sum for hospitals, especially county hospitals, but also others, where they cannot perform the contract. The orders of the voivods were already such that the so-called should be organized. transitional branches where a normal contract cannot be performed. It takes months. Now there are new orders that require such places to be prepared in practically every department, which, as you know, will reduce the number of benefits, because this place must be insulation sites. Therefore, performance of the contract or lump sum will be even less likely. Wouldn't it be a decision here not to extend the reporting period because it wouldn't work? As we know, many hospitals have made only 70% the contract, and now, following the recommendations, the instructions of the voivods must continue to limit its execution. I am no longer talking about other objective difficulties, such as lack of staff, such as the fact that staff cannot work in 2 different places, etc., etc. By force, the transfer of care of patients, including those who are ill because of COVID, and mostly suspected of it, to county hospitals will result in this lump sum not being able to be implemented. So I have a question: are there any work to be done to simply not prolong this deadline, but to consider that the contract still could not be performed, so that we should not impose any obligation on hospitals to overexercise in a situation in which they have to take care of the safety of patients? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u253	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll start at the end. As far as lump sums are concerned, those places that will be in county hospitals for patients with suspicion of COVID-19 are isolation sites. You will not be treating patients there, but you will be waiting for the result, if any, and, depending on the patient's clinical condition, you will pass it to an infectious hospital or, possibly, domestic isolation if this patient's condition is good. When it comes to... and places like this in the hospital aren't gonna be in every ward. As I know, the voivodships have issued instructions to have such places in the hospital, depending on the hospital, from 5 to 6. We don't want these to be places released from this pool of places that are meant for a flat-rate contract, but I know that there's a possibility that we can just add extra space to the rooms that aren't in the hospitals, and for that we're gonna pay extra. We know that such places must be in a certain sanitary regime, and we are also preparing solutions for county hospitals to possibly help create such a place. As far as the article is concerned. 37, at the moment I'm taking part in the work of the working group. Because a team was formed, consisting of a representative office of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, but also a spokesperson of the patient's rights. And this team has been meeting regularly for several weeks and is working out how to regulate this article or actually the entire department in terms of medical error or medical error and possible compensation. We have many examples from other countries where it is already really regulated and works quite well. I'll just remind you that at the moment there are committees in every voivodship that patients can report to and claim about a medical error. In my opinion, these committees failed to pass the exam because the annual budget of these committees in 2019, of course the budget for the activities of the same committees, was PLN 9 million and these committees issued 25 judgments in the country. So it's a cost to give a single ruling. approx. PLN 400,000, so quite expensive I'm talking about the very issue of the ruling, that is, the work of the committee itself. So we certainly need to change this system so that the path of redress by patients is much cheaper, but also more effective. You were talking about family doctors. This is where the point is that, first of all, we want access to the family doctor to be better, and on the other hand, if the sick go to the family doctor, they'll ban him. I think that the doctor is from having contact with the patient, and not that he's a health inspector who's mostly not a doctor by education, so reporting to him with symptoms and waiting to see if he's gonna give us a test or not isn't, I think, a good method. Therefore, restoring this, I think, important role of the family doctor in the healthcare system is very important. And we want, apart from these teleporads, which are definitely covidovski's good relationship at this time... However, we want patients to report to family doctors personally. Because we're not just sick because of Coronavirus, we're also sick with other diseases. I recently had a meeting with doctors, vascular surgeons, and I learned that they are currently observing a much larger number of patients who unfortunately need limb amputations, which is related to the fact that the family doctor has not seen this patient, has not examined him. And then, when the patient's already in hospital treatment, sometimes it's too late for therapy. So, I think, well, this is another proof that the teleport is not the golden means to diagnose a Polish patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u255	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A lie, an outrageous lie, or a statistic. That's what I thought of a saying, a slogan, otherwise: truth, semi-truths and statistics. When the Minister presented at the beginning of his speech this avalanche of statistics, which would indicate that it is simply fantastic, perfect, well, wonderful, we just have no problem, if there are any problems, it concerns some marginal 0.5% , or 2% something or even smaller ranges. Well, life doesn't prove it. There's a lot of questions besides the ones that have already been asked. Yeah, but just one thing, not to prolong it, I'd like to raise the question of family doctors. Actually, in the last few days, I've got an avalanche to report to me, to the senator's office, and from all the conversations, this is where the drama goes. Minister, I very kindly accept your position on this matter, I see that you have a certain distance to the solutions that work, at least in fact, well, because you have to take responsibility for legal solutions. Namely, many people report to me, saying that they feel excluded from medical care. They say you abandoned them. Because the introduction of the principle of teleporad, in general the communication of a patient or even a citizen, because the citizen will become a patient when the doctor considers that he is ill only by telephone... There is usually no alternative, you can not contact by email or text or otherwise. And if someone's not retired, a pensioner or otherwise, there's a lot of time... People say they have to hang out on the phone for hours to even call to register at all. And this is just the beginning of the way to the doctor. After all, we also know that in Poland we cannot use a detailed study, from a specialist study, from a visit to a specialist, until a person gets to a family doctor, to basic health care. Well, it's getting really dramatic. And this is just the beginning. It's scary to think about what's gonna happen next. So to speak, people who feel bad have some ailments, not necessarily associated with the virus, for example. This is already a dramatic situation with the suspicion of cancer, will be in endless queues, will live under stress, unable to get into basic health care, to the family doctor. This really needs to be done. And I'd like to know if you're diagnosing, as I put it, maybe in a rough way, but that's how I get the picture of the state of things and if you're planning to make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u257	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u258	Well, actually statistics are sometimes heartless, heartless, but they are what they are, so I presented them. This is the sentence that you put forward when it comes to accessing POZ, and I fully support it. Although family doctors have a very different opinion, they believe that access is full and not only teleporads, but they are physically available. We... I don't like to use any rigors, restrictions or warrants, but I think with the help of officials, unfortunately, we're gonna have to put this personal presence in the office on family doctors. But little of that, well, we also have signals that, and it's very sad, I'm a doctor and I'll be honest with you, I guess I would never resort to such methods, that you examine a patient through a window. So the patient's in front of the office, and the doctor's inside, and the prescription is placed under the door. Well, it's very insulting for the person who comes for advice. In the autumn period, according to statistics, family doctors are reported, depending on the severity of the infection, from 100,000 to 200,000 patients per day. So I can't imagine it happening. only by teleporting. Something that was in the beginning in our thought as if complementing this medical treatment, unfortunately, happened 100%. giving this advice in this way. We have a lot of signals that certain diseases have been missed. Effects, as I said, in the form of amputation of limbs, but also unfortunately death... This could be avoided if patients were examined by a family doctor. The National Health Fund is starting a wide-ranging task of controlling family doctors' facilities, checking whether they are open, whether the patient has the kind of access they are now declaring whether the patient can access this facility at any time of the day as part of the operation of this facility. Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u259	I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u260	Thank you very much for this answer, because it's like she's optimistic that you're going to do something about it. There's one more thing we're dealing with here that's so unhealthy. It's about the ethos of the medical profession, the honor of the doctor, but also about trust in public health care. Why? People who talk to me say they don't understand a situation where... After all, the virus does not distinguish between private practice and public practice. There's no problem getting into a private practice doctor, there's no problem getting into a private clinic, there's no problem using private hospitals. If there's a problem, it's public. It undermines the confidence of the citizen, the patient in you. The state sector must and should be no worse than the private sector, or at least the same, and there is a huge difference here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u261	Well, unfortunately, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, we also have such signals that doctors in the state health department refuse to give this advice, and after working hours in their private office... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: That is not true.]] We have these signals. I'm not saying it's a rule. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Individual...]] Maybe, but we have these signals, mostly from patients who signal it. It's reprehensible and it shouldn't be done. As the senator said... Two professions have a 6-year period of study: a doctor's profession and... A course in the seminar also lasts 6 years. In both cases, this is a competition where you have to have a vocation. Right? This is more than just doing work in certain hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u262	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Brejza a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to thank you for the information provided and to note that we asked in March, among others. It's about the ventilator case. That's when you were giving information here. I'd like to talk about that. How many ventilators from this $1,000 241 have arrived and been received? In what amounts have contractual penalties been imposed and in what amount have contractual penalties been enforced from the supplier, the one not necessarily reliable? This is one block of questions. Second thing. I'll get back to the teleporad. That idea was very good. The Minister of Health introduced the regulation 2 days ago... I was approached by POZ doctors who are asking for clarification, because it is stated in this regulation that in order to be able to direct the patient to a COVID test during the teleporad, the doctor of POZ must determine the following symptoms of the disease: body temperature above 38°, cough and dyspnoea and loss of smell or taste. Doctors point out that in most cases patients, who are later positively tested, do not have all the symptoms indicated in the regulation in total. Therefore, the question whether you will amend this regulation or whether it is appropriate to indicate, for some unknown reason, that these four symptoms should occur at the same time. The doctor's conclusion is that maybe only 5% or 6% patients with Coronavirus have all the concomitant symptoms. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u264	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u265	Mr. Senator, I'm going to go back to question one, which is the respirator issue. I didn't exactly shop at the Ministry of Health, but I do know that 200 ventilators came to us from this pot that was supposed to be purchased. There was a problem with certain drains, which did not match the oxygen apparatus serving us in Poland, but the manufacturer of these drains replaced and ventilators are ready to use. The contractual penalties imposed on those ventilators are EUR 3 million. As for the teleporads and the four symptoms that Mr. Senator said, I'm going to say that this is done deliberately and intentionally, because when there are these four symptoms, we're almost 100% sure that the patient is infected with the coronavirus. Then he doesn't go to the family doctor anymore, but he goes directly for a swab, so he goes to the drive-thru point, which means there's no danger of contacting the doctor in the clinic. But because of this, we also wanted to increase the possibility of the patient being examined directly by a doctor. It's about what you're talking about in your speeches, i.e. that this examination, direct interview, physical examination should take place in the family doctor's office. That is why we wanted, while giving the possibility to receive a teleporade referral to the test, to place greater and more emphasis on the patient's appearance at the family doctor. We know that during the infected period the flu and the banal colds will dominate, not the coravirus, so there is no point in directing everyone to the study in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u266	Senator Brejza would like to know how I was informed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u267	Minister, thank you very much for this information and for this response, but I think the idea of teleporad is to avoid contact in the clinic so that this patient, who is potentially infected with the coronavirus, isolate and do not cause him to sit in the waiting room next to other patients. The very idea of teleporad is so that it doesn't infect other people in the clinic, hence the question. So it should be understood that you will leave these symptoms in the regulation unchanged?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u268	Senator, our strategy is a flexible strategy. If something needs to be changed over time, we will, of course, change it, but I will repeat: we cannot rely only on teleports. The teleport is a good action to diagnose the patient in some way at the first moment, but there is no panacea for everything, so we would like you to see a doctor more often physically. The fact that patients with suspicion of COVID will also end up in the family doctor's office... Well, we don't have to crowd all the patients in the waiting rooms, it's a matter of organizing work. We can schedule these patients for different hours, depending on the clinic we can separate communication routes for patients without respiratory tract infection and for patients with respiratory tract infection create separate communication routes. That's the point. It's only an organizational one. I know a lot of clinics, family doctors' offices, where it's been working for months now, there are separate medical and care teams for patients who come with other diseases than upper respiratory tract infections. And it works perfectly. It's just a matter of organizing a job.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u269	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u270	Minister, four questions, but short and precise. First. A moment ago, the Minister spoke about data related to the issue of DiLO cards, about the fact that when August is compared to August, there is virtually no change; you are talking about a 10% decrease. I'd ask for precise data, for example. for the second quarter, April, May, June. Why? If I read the official information... Before me, I have a statement by Prof. Jack Jassem, director of the Department of Oncology and Radiotherapy at the University of Gdańsk, who says: the number of DiLO cards issued and they provide a rapid diagnostic path and are really a pass to oncology benefits for patients That's why I'm asking you for precise data. I'm going to ask you for this data in writing. The decrease in the second quarter of the month to the month. Second question. Did you set up a team in the National Health Fund, which analyzes data, collects it and will present some recommendations in the context of the so-called. The problem of the hidden victims of the pandemic? I touched only oncology cases, but not by accident, because every day cancer in Poland is detected in about 500 people and 270 of them die. True, coronavirus is also detected in several hundred people, but several to a dozen of these people die. That's why I'm asking. Do you have any analytical teams that will learn from the first wave of pandemics, make recommendations on what's ahead? The third question is to support healthcare facilities for flu vaccines for doctors and nurses. Why? I've spoken to several hospital directors. And what did they tell me? They've put out a few invitations to buy flu vaccines, but no one's checking in because these vaccines are just missing. If the flu gets sick by health professionals, I don't have to tell you what the consequences will be. Did the state within the framework of these purchased... And the information that's being given to the public is about 1 million 770 thousand flu vaccines and no more art, because they're supposed to be gone, they're sold by individual producers. Please confirm or deny it. And I also have a question... Because you are conducting, and under normal conditions this is absolutely the right way to go, a broad information campaign, and here I am going into vaccines for the general public about the generation of seniors in particular. If it is true that you have 1 million 770 000 vaccines and there is no chance for more, because producers have already divided them among individual countries that have requested, how do you combine it with a wide promotional campaign: you have 75+ In Poland there are 9.5 million people over the age of sixty. I've got people in my office who are 75+ and they say that the doctors respond: I can give you a prescription, but you're not gonna do it anyway. Hence the question: how do you want to support these vulnerable groups with such a small number of vaccines? You didn't buy much more than last year, maybe because you took out a few tens of thousands of them. But if last year, as the Minister says, you bought less than 1.5 million, and now you have 1 million 770 thousand, then you don't need a thorough analysis here to know that this is a radically small number in relation to the needs that will arise. The Minister said, "I'll quote exactly "in October we'll have 2 million vaccines." I understand you're going to have up to $2 million, which is $1 million,770,000. How are you going to ensure that even the most vulnerable groups, the seniors, are implanted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u271	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as always, I'll start from the end. Last year, the status of seniors was a lot of local governments, including cities that gave seniors free of charge, which is a very good method of 6%. Although they received the vaccine for free, it was de facto not much larger than the general one, which was 4%. As people come to your office right now and say they want to inoculate, I'm very happy, although I don't know if it's a strawful enthusiasm. I've talked to a lot of experts who say that if there's nothing, there's a very big desire to have it. Right now, it's about vaccines. We'll see what happens at the turn of September and October when the vaccines are much, much, much, much, much, much. I must say that at the moment there are very advanced talks of purely commercial with pharmaceutical companies and there is a chance to obtain an additional volume of these vaccines. It seems to me that this will safeguard the needs of Poles when it comes to vaccination against influenza. As far as medical personnel are concerned, we're paying back this vaccine for hospitals. If the hospital buys the vaccine itself... [[But there's no way to buy it, Minister.]] I'll tell you what, I'll tell you... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] [[Mr. Senator, please calm down.]] If the hospital buys the vaccine itself, the price for the vaccine will be 100% refunded for the vaccine. If this is a vaccine provided by the Ministry of Health and provided by such a vaccine, the NFZ will only pay for the vaccination process of the healthcare professional itself. So if the management doesn't buy this vaccine, they're gonna get this vaccine from the Ministry of Health. And the second question from the end... At the moment there is a team that was formed by the Minister of Health at the State Hygiene Institute. This is a team that investigates this whole pandemic aspect, which is also, as you call it, the issue of possible victims of the COVID. It is a team that produces forecasts of possible maturity for us and predicts how many patients in our hospitals will be infected with the coronavirus in the coming weeks and what number of ventilators will be needed to use for these severely ill patients. We eat the work not only of this team, we get such simulations from many institutes and universities. I've been at the Ministry of Health since the start of the COVID epidemic, and I'm gonna be honest with you, it's been moving around a lot. There's no supermodel for math that would show probabilities with a high degree of probability when it comes to coranavirus. We have to rely on something, but we do it with a certain degree of abstinence about the final... For example, I may have said that in April, when it was the Holy Night, when we knew that Poles would leave and want to meet with their families... A week before these holidays we had a meeting of experts at the Ministry of Health and practically everyone decided that one week after the holidays in Poland there would be no respirator seats, that we would have so many patients. Thank God this prognosis of outstanding experts failed. And one last question, about the DiLO card. I have, Mr. Senator, prepared a quarter by quarter, last year by this year... I'm gonna send this statement in writing so you can compare it, see if the professor's right or I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Can I ask you a question?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u274	Minister, there's optimism. But did I get that right? Any director of a medical facility who does not acquire vaccines alone for his employees may apply to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health will provide such vaccines. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u275	Mr. Editor, we're here to introduce health care because this is the first line of combat. A staff who doesn't have the flu will be available to fight the coronavirus. What I'm saying is completely up to date.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u276	Among the numerous titles that Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski proudly wore during his career, there was no editor, if I recall correctly. Nevertheless, I understand that this exchange is over. And the next question is Senator Dorota Czudowska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u277	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. First. How many health care professionals, doctors and nurses died in Poland because of a coronavirus infection? Second question. Does the Minister have any information on how much less there was in the spring of infection and flu and other viral diseases? And I know these infections were less due to the side effect of COVID, which is to maintain the DDM principle: distance, disinfection and mask. Do you have that information? Because the inheritance was, but is there anything more about it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u278	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! Senator! The first question I am not going to answer you precisely, and I am not going to answer you precisely because I have recently had to sign an interpellation of one of my fellow Members on the same issue and to be honest, I had some reservations about the numbers, because they were not numbers, but numbers that were presented when it came to the deaths of doctors and nurses, which is why I allowed myself to review it again. These numbers were quite low, so I would like to know for sure where these data were taken from. If the senator will allow me, I'll answer in writing, so that this is truly reliable data. Different associations give a little bit of different data, and I want them to match reality. If it's the flu, I'll say yes. Spring, when the coronavirus appeared in Poland, it was actually the end of the period of flu disease, of course for our happiness, and the patients infected with flu were practically gone. I think, as in many countries, especially Asian countries, when it's a simple infection that causes a mask to be worn and doesn't cause any social resonance... I think that, in connection with the coronavirus, this habit should also take root here. We know perfectly well that many times in the past we went to work with colds, with colds, with coughs. I think that now the person who comes to work and has a cough will be unwelcomely seen by his coworkers. It's assumptuous that even if we have a common cold, we can stay at home. Besides, we gave family doctors the possibility that when we call and tell them about these symptoms that we have a fever, we feel unwell, as it is during the cold period, the doctor may give us 3 to 5 days' sick leave on the basis of this teleporad. If these symptoms persist, we should see a doctor personally. I think the presence of masks and distancing will protect us not only from the coronavirus, but also from many infectious diseases, for sure. That's what the infector doctors say, and that's good news, that's. That when we brought in this... How to say it gently, well... When we encouraged Poles to wash their hands frequently, oh, this way, and it is a simple thing, warm water and soap, disinfectants that are practically everywhere... The infectors say that since then there has been virtually no so-called. diseases of dirty hands, such patients do not happen at present. So a little bit of increased personal hygiene causes that infectors doctors do not observe these very common diseases, which resulted in at least fever and diarrhea, and were unfortunately caused by non-compliance with personal hygiene. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u280	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Benjamin Godyla's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u281	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two brief questions. The first question concerns the hospital in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. According to the Ministry's new strategy to fight the coronavirus, nine hospitals were appointed in the country, including the facility in Kędzierzyn-Koźl... This is the only hospital in this county with more than 100,000 inhabitants. I mean, there's a big chemical industry out there. You could say that in this county for six months there was no treatment for diseases other than COVID, because it was a covidowski hospital. I would like to ask you how it is decided that this hospital is designated for the care of patients with COVID, since in the voivodship city, i.e. In Opole, we have six hospitals, and there's an infectious facility. I think there should be a change here, because people in Czedzierzyn are waiting for treatments, and, as I mentioned, people were not treated there for six months. That's the first question. The second question concerns wearing masks. Have any studies been carried out on the negative consequences of the long-term use of masks, the wearing of masks? I mean negative effects on the respiratory system and circulatory system, fungal disease, skin problems. The issue is very important, because in some time it may turn out that because of too long wearing masks in society there will be more diseases than what causes the coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u282	Thank you, Senator. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u283	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I answer the first question, it's about Kędzierzyn-Koźle. This is about a hospital, which, as far as its scope is concerned, has a number of high-specialist departments, which is precisely intended for the treatment of patients in whom we have already found Coronavirus, but they require treatment other than internist-infectious. Such a philosophy, which is different at the moment, because we left hospitals with one-name names, was also dictated by what the senator said, i.e. that residents living close to such a hospital had no access to this hospital. At the moment, access will be provided because this hospital will operate and, in addition to receiving patients who will be diagnosed with COVID, will provide benefits to other residents. It's like taking a bow towards the locals. But it's not just that, because we had signals that the medical staff who worked in this hospital with one name didn't have much work to do. However, the surgeons need to operate to keep the practice in hand... 'Cause it's kind of like riding a bike. You don't forget that, but after two years, you can drive slower. It's also about surgeons, because they have to do their jobs all the time. Therefore, this hospital, which is currently designated, will have quite good funding, because it will have to be ready to accept patients with the coronavirus, but will also be able to conduct its normal healing activities for the inhabitants of this area. And the second question was the masks. There are indeed many movements in our space... At the Ministry of Health, we have a department of social policy in which... Except for the so-called movement. The flats, that is, thinking that the Earth is flat, now there is also an anti-massage movement. I, as a surgeon, worked 30 years, my main occupation was surgery, which means I had to be wearing a mask, and to be honest, I don't feel any negative effects, my colleagues, either. It is not that this mask causes any breathing problems, causing lung fungus, as it is often raised. I'm sure if we use a disposable mask for a month, this mask will pose a greater threat to us than security. So I think that wearing a mask doesn't cause any negative side effect, of course if it's used in such a well-defined way, so if it's a one-time mask, then let it be a one-time mask, and if it's a multi-use mask, then it should be washed, ironed, and then it will be fairly sterile. [[May I ask you another question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u284	Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u285	It's this hospital, Minister. As far as I know, there's probably 250 beds in there. Do you think that after you have reduced how many beds there on COVID, the rest of the beds will be enough for the current operations of all branches?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u286	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! I'm going to refer to the Senate here because there was a video conference with the voivods here, and this problem was actually raised there, because the voivods determined a specific number of beds to be in these hospitals. That was not our intention. We want the hospital to be ready to receive every patient, I don't know, pregnant for childbirth or a broken leg patient who has a positive test for coranavirus to receive every patient. We don't determine the number of beds to be ready. It depends on the hospital's organisation and management.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u287	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Marek Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u288	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The fact that the Minister here has not long since addressed Senator Kwiatkowski as editor... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Excuse me...]] ...he only testifies to the fact that you feel like you did at the press conference. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: No.]] And the press conferences have to do with it that when there are inconvenient questions, you give answers evasively or the journalist gets away, the more that he can't ask the second question. Well, it's not like that here. Well, I'm going back to the question of the number of vaccines. Minister, Mr. Senator, Dear Buddy, you are, I would say, a calming-sleeping tone has informed you that maybe it isn't yet good, but it will be right now, at the end of September, and as far as people are concerned, it may be a sheep's momentum, they're just like that. They brand it, and if it comes to it, it's just not gonna work. Well, Minister, these things happen, but they happen when, for example, we have a normal year, in a normal year, I don't know, 1 million 400,000 people want to inoculate, and next year somebody's got a rumor, and so people say they want to buy more, then it turns out they don't, etc. This isn't the case. This is the case when we are in a pandemic state, people are scared, and they already have a little bit of it all, is general information from professionals that flu vaccination helps fight the coronavirus, weakens the effects, etc. And the fact that people want to inoculate themselves now is not a sheep's rush. If there have been 1 million 400 thousand people up to now, I don't want to prophesy how much there will be, whether there will be 6 million or 7 million people willing to get vaccinated. And you're talking about 2 million vaccines, still spread over time... Minister, you've done a lot of things right, and now, as I'm going to say, this program has very positive elements, but you've completely screwed up the flu vaccine case, yes, completely. And here's the question: can you take some extra action right now to radically increase the number of these vaccines, or will you take this course, 100,000, 200,000, 400,000, and maybe we'll reach 2 million somewhere in November?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u290	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I do not treat my speech as a press conference, but I am very happy to answer that question. No one can answer the question of how many vaccines there will be. The fact that you dropped the number of $6 million... I don't know how you got that information. Experts who have been involved in influenza eradication for years say that if it is 3 million, it will be a huge success, yes, a huge success. We'll see. Oh, God, that's right. It's about ordering vaccines. Well, the vaccine isn't a product that's on the shelf waiting to be bought. The process of ordering vaccines is a 2-year process. Our agreement with companies was concluded two years ago, then there was a completely different epidemiological situation. This agreement was renegotiated now in the spring, it was probably February, but then we couldn't predict that in the autumn there would be such an increased demand for this vaccine. That is why, at the moment, ordinary trade negotiations are taking place with companies, which also see that they can make good money on vaccines. These negotiations are going on. So I am happy because they have joined these negotiations not only from European companies but also from other countries. That's why I don't think the vaccines should go away. Now that we are doing a poll and it turns out that more than 30% of people in Poland declare that they will be vaccinated against the coronavirus, it is not a very large volume, even though... [[...9 million.]] Right, Mr. Senator. But we had a pretty big trauma from the coronavirus, we had a lockdown. Many people experienced that they could not meet, etc. I think... I was convinced it was going to be over 70%. In many countries, flu prognosis is within such limits. Well, unfortunately, our country is very, very weak in this respect. That's 4%, as much as nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Marcin Bosacki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, one of the worst features of this pandemic is the great impression of uncertainty or anxiety of the public opinion. This concern is intensified by imprecise and sometimes even contradictory communications from the authorities, unfortunately also from the authorities of the Republic of Poland. Let me just remind you that in February, before the epidemic reached Poland, only some, unfortunately few, representatives of the authorities said that this would be a serious matter. Others, e.g. The country's chief health inspector said there's nothing to worry about because China is far away. In March of that time, luckily there were already, the Minister of Health said that the masks didn't give anything, and then he said they were absolutely necessary. In July the Prime Minister of the Republic said that there is nothing to fear of the virus, and after a few weeks he says that we will have another wave of epidemics and that the situation is serious. I would like to ask you about the precise information of the authorities of the Republic of Poland, the government of the Republic, which you represent, for schools, for parents and for teachers. I am after many conversations with school heads, teachers, local government officials taking care of schools in Poznań and Wielkopolska. They don't know what the guidelines are. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Impossible.]] Perhaps they have been communicated, but too weak. Perhaps they have not been clearly communicated. The questions are two... We know that other schools are being closed down, that children, teachers and their families are being sent to isolation or quarantine. Today there were 350 such people in Jarocin. I have two questions. One: what are your guidelines for procedures when there is a risk of coronavirus at school when such a threat arises among the families of children who go to school or among teachers? When are you sending quarantine, isolation, when are you recommending hybrid teaching? That's the first question. Second: what is the package of this government for schools when it comes to providing masks and other protective measures, such as: Plexi plates? When to wear masks and when not? Of course, in schools, as all teachers emphasize, it is impossible, and not only among the youngest children, to meet the requirement of maintaining a distance of 1.5 m, whether on breaks or in the halls. I would ask for a very precise statement on what your guidelines are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u293	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u294	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Maybe I'll start from the end, Mr. Senator, which is asking what we've delivered to the educational institutions. We delivered 54 million masks, 5.6 million l of disinfectant, 74,000 455 thermometers and 17,000 600 dispensers for disinfection. So much for the equipment delivered. As far as procedures are concerned, school heads probably received them on 2 or 3 August, i.e. de facto they had a whole month to adapt with these procedures to their school. We know that there are schools where 40 students learn, there are schools where 1 000 200 learns, there are small schools and there are big schools. Therefore, the procedure and organisation of education in schools should be completely different for small and large schools. We have about 27 000 schools in Poland. Indeed, in many schools there are cases of coronavirus infection, but it is not even 1%, it is definitely less. The procedures are pretty rigid. The education union wanted the school principal to decide whether the science would be hybrid, whether science would be stationary, whether science would be remote, i.e. children would not go to school, they would learn through a laptop or other audiovideo equipment. Such a decision, if it is taken, must be consulted with the sanitary and epidemiological station. And this decision must be taken together, not only because the Director thinks so, but it must be supported by an epidemiological situation. Because it may happen that in a given class there will be a positive child, then surely you need to isolate the class, that is, the class must go to quarantine. If there was no contact with other students, then you can teach in another part of the school in a traditional way. But once again, these are all individual recommendations for schools and every director with a local sanitary and epidemiological station should develop such rules. I also took part in the work of the team, which was appointed at the Minister of Education, together with representatives of the Chief Health Officer, where we developed these standards, these procedures. Before the beginning of the school year, all the directors of the district sanitary and epidemiology stations met with school heads to answer any questions, because these questions were certainly raised, how to proceed. Although these guidelines were very detailed and, I think, very transparently presented, such questions were raised. I think that they also sometimes appear at the moment, because, as we know, everything in life cannot be described by procedure. There are situations. So I think the return of children to schools, as is the case throughout Europe, is important. not only from an economic point of view, but not only for the economy. Also, as child psychologists point out, the child must be in contact with his peer. Locking him up at home and remote science not only doesn't bring the scientific results we want, but it also strongly undermines the child's psyche. That's why taking that risk... I'm sure it's some risk that these kids come into contact with each other in large clusters. This regime will not always be respected. Well, it could cause a risk of disease. But surely this damage caused by remote teaching will be greater than that caused by the fact that the children went to school. Are the masks in the schools... This is the director's decision. We've left individual directors here free of charge. I'm sure in class, if of course it's the baby's will, well, there might be one in that mask. But in the hallways, during appeals children should, however, seem to me from a medical point of view, although there is no such order, it is just a recommendation to be in masks. We measure every child's temperature before entering school. So, as I'm saying, at this point, this first scrining is taking place. Very important, or perhaps the easiest thing we may forget, is the ventilation every few dozen minutes of the room in which the class is located and taught. Because this air exchange is unfortunately very, very important here. These are very simple and maybe trivial mechanisms, but sometimes we forget about them. So I'm the optimist when it comes to getting my kids back in school. But I certainly do not hide that there will be individual cases that, due to the appearance of Coronavirus, the school will work, whether it's all remotely or hybridly, or some in a remote way, some in a traditional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask the senator's question... Excuse me, Senator Marcin Bosacki has an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u296	Thanking the Minister for his response, however, I would like to express some concern about leaving the decision to wear masks to the directors. Even in your reply, Minister, forgive me. There is a certain lack of precision. 'Cause you said as a doctor you recommended it during appeals and breaks, and I don't think so during class. If you'd be so kind as to clarify that... And, you know, I figured that 54 million masks would be enough. If you really considered it a serious recommendation that you should wear them, and even if you didn't change them once a day... We have 6 million students, teachers and school workers, and even more than 6 million. Well, that's enough for nine days. So they're gone. Yes? If you really recommend wearing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u298	Mr. Senator, these are the masks we're giving. But I think the parents are buying books, slippers, clothes for the baby, so this mask should also be the standard equipment for every adult at the moment, not only for the adult, but also for the child. So I think it's not that much of a problem, especially since at the moment the masks are available, and their price is certainly much lower than it was in the spring period. When it comes to children wearing masks... Well, if they're taking the school bus, they have a duty to be wearing masks. Although we know that especially the youngest children sometimes treat this mask in different ways. It's hard for every kid to stand around and make sure he wears a mask. That's why we listened to the voices of the teachers here, who think there must be contact, so to speak, with the face of the child and the teacher. This mask is definitely making it harder for him. And that's what we decided to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u299	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Mark Plura's question. You're welcome, Senator. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u300	Hello, welcome. Minister, I have a question. I'm talking about visiting people before they go to a test for coronavirus activity. You mentioned that these people wouldn't put other family clinic patients at risk when they were able to arrange a case so that they wouldn't come into contact with healthy patients. I live in Katowice. It's a big city. Unfortunately, my family counsellor does not have such conditions. But if it were necessary, I'd probably find another one. My parents also live in Upper Silesia, but in the countryside. There they have only one clinic, a clinic, and this cannot be arranged except by excluding a certain day or certain days from the operation of this clinic, so that such patients, suspected of being infected with a coronavirus, can investigate I don't really know why the first-time doctor would do that. I therefore have a question: does the Minister of Health, in agreement with the President of the National Health Fund, provide compensation for these clinics which will receive patients before they are sent to the COVID study before the test? Compensation related to the additional non-specific costs of decontaminated these premises, those clinic structures that are exposed to the virus after the visit of such patients. It is important for those who organize our daily health care. Well, it's hard for me to understand this move, after all, because, as the Minister himself said, you're focused on getting rid of unnecessary research, testing. Meanwhile, we all know that the World Health Organization emphasizes almost every time in public speeches that we have only 2 tools to defend against the coronavirus: social distance and of course masks, as well as tests. I understand what the Minister said, so that such actions proposed by the government serve to reduce the number of tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u301	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, the family doctor's clinic needs to be available and if we organize this job properly, e.g. so that by noon we accept patients with respiratory infection, and in the afternoon others or we arrange patients for specific hours, then we will definitely be able to avoid communication between patients. It's an organizational issue and a lot of family doctors. I've already said that. He's doing a great job of doing it. As far as costs are concerned, from 1 July all POZ received a 3% increase in the capital charge. If they're directing the patient to a coronavirus test, this test is paid not by the family doctor, but by the state. This is also an excellent sum, right now it is approx. 280 PLN. If a patient who is enrolled in a family doctor is directed by that doctor to laboratory tests, then it is paid for at the rate of capitalation that the POZ doctor receives. For this study we pay not from the stakes, from the money that the POZ receives, but from the country. I think that we must also think that this patient, who has limited access to the POM doctor at the moment, could be easier to contact with this doctor, could be examined by him, because, as I repeat, not all Poles suffer from Coronavirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u303	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u304	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your patience, because unlike many other ministers, you really have been with us a long time and answer all the questions. I think I can thank you on behalf of most of the senators, because it's been going on long enough and substantively, and you answer competently. I would just like to point out, before I ask a question, that this main fight with the coronavirus is really happening to the local government. With full respect for the government that issues regulations, and well, I would like to make it clear that, however, the local government The hospitals are mainly local hospitals, the schools are also subject to local government. The main burden of fighting is shifted. I'm gonna add something, by the way. For example, you were talking about measuring the temperature in schools and I was wondering if these thermometers, which are often expensive, and so far they have been difficult to access, schools buy themselves or the government deliver them. It's just out of curiosity. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: The Ministry of Health bought them.]] Buy it? Okay, okay. I do not hide that I have a bit of a grudge against the government and such a fear that this responsibility is, after all, passed on to the local government by these soft regulations, because if something happens, it will be the local government's fault. But last but not least, a specific question. Minister, I mean... Maybe I should ask the Minister of Education, but I'll ask them to you. That's what I'm 'Cause these are the kind of questions I get when teachers come to my office. And that's the question I'd like to ask you. Can teachers in quarantine conduct classes, often on request, sometimes at the principal's begging request, because they lack teachers? Can they work remotely? And if they can work remotely while in quarantine, who should pay them for this job? When quarantine is required, such a red lamp appears immediately when it comes to ZUS. ZUS, so to speak, takes over this teacher, but ZUS pays 80% salaries. The principal wants this kind of teacher to work, so he's willing to pay 100%. salaries. But there's a red one in the ZUS... Can a teacher in quarantine work remotely and if so, who should pay him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u306	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the second question I cannot answer is because it is not a matter that I deal with every day. If the senator wants, we'll contact the Ministry of Science, Education and that's the senator's answer in writing. As far as the first issue is concerned, I always stress that the joint work of government and self-government is very valuable. Today, before noon, I had a meeting with Marshal Mazowsze, Struzik at the Ministry, and we exchanged views on aid during the pandemic, cooperation between local governments and governments. I would like to thank all the local governments who have taken part in this aid. This help is very big. As I say, joint action is certainly effective, thanks to which, in our country, we are going through a relatively dry rate during this pandemic period. Like the senator said, the role of self-government is beyond overestimating. If I may, this is where I thank all the local government for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz was the last senator asking the question. I would like to thank the Minister very much for your substantive and patient work today, which you have done. not only as a minister, but also as our colleague. [[But now it's gonna start...]] I think the senator will appreciate... Allow me to point out that, although this subject has the right to be emotional, the discussion with the Minister was of a substantive nature... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: I am very happy.]] ...and calm. I think this is a beautiful example of how we can talk. That's the credit. And the Minister, for which I thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Senators, and now it begins because we are starting the debate. You'll be the first to speak... I'm so sorry. I would like to inform you that the government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Alicia Chybicka, Senator Dorota Czudowska, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u308	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! The Minister's statement shows that doctors can get along over party divisions when it comes to the common enemy of SARS-CoV-2. The subject is a bit discussed by us here in the upper chamber. I remember the beginnings... The knowledge that was spread by former Minister Łukasz Szumowski, my colleague by profession, was very inconsistent and was a very ambiguous message not only for patients but also for the medical community. I would like to remind you that here we spoke very loudly about the importance of personal protective equipment. These aren't personal protective equipment. Let me remind you that wearing a mask, we protect others in every public place, where there are more people. I was expecting clear guidelines at this point, strategies for the coming time, because, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is absolutely not over. I am very pleased that the Minister here has stressed that the admission limits for medical studies have been increased, places for future doctors $2,000. But this has nothing to do with the next autumn-winter period, because, as you know, the education of a young doctor is 6 years of study and 6 years of specialization. So we're 12 years old... I think in 12 years, the pandemic will be gone, and we can deal with it as doctors and as patients. But it's something to be proud of in such a discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we should consider the matter of strategy in three aspects. Firstly, in terms of the needs of patients who should have clear, clear guidelines for the coming time, including flu vaccination, because medical experts say that this is a good step. We know there aren't that many vaccines... The interest is large and the presumption that patients may not benefit from vaccination at the time they have written prescriptions and go to the pharmacy... It really can be investigated. I don't think a prescription patient goes to the pharmacy, buys a vaccine and doesn't vaccinate himself. It's illogical to me. We must also consider the situation in the context of medical staff. Here as doctors... As a doctor of practice who works every day at the hospital, I don't feel safe because I know that no vaccines are available for us today, which is 9 September. There is also a context for employers who have to manage individuals who have suffered large financial deficits before the pandemic. We know well that as bodies forming local governments at different levels they still have to contribute to public health services. And that's what the pandemic was all about. I know that anyone in power would have to deal with this problem, but I let myself interview my employers briefly. I will talk about the Beskidzy Oncology Center, where I work and which has not interrupted any medical benefits during the pandemic era. We've been working normal since the start of the pandemic. We went on TV for a short time, but we thought that it was not safe for patients to continue treatment and write prescriptions. We used to collect personal protective equipment from various sources ourselves, because the government did not guarantee them yet, and we also did so with the support of local governments. After talking to my employers at my Beskidzki Oncology Centre, which has not interrupted the implementation of health services, I felt that the current epidemiological situation is causing additional costs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are huge costs. They are related to the introduction of epidemiology warnings and to the significant absence of hospital staff. It is important to be aware that the pandemic situation not only affects the financial situation in 2020 but will also affect the functioning of hospitals in the following year, in the longer term. In this respect, we are not sure how this will all work. Even the education of young medical students does not guarantee that these people in the age of a generational hole and secure the provision of health services by pensioners, probably at 30% ...We have no guarantee that they will stay in the country. I think the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the government have taken no steps to leave these young people here for the future. Please state hospitals which, despite difficulties, carry out medical benefits, including those financed separately, mainly oncology, without restrictions, earn benefits above the contract concluded with the fund and do not receive refinancing overperformances. My hospital, Beskidzkie Centrum Oncology, as an oncology hospital, can probably extrapolate this data to other oncology centers, did not receive refinancing for the first half of 2020 of PLN 8.5 million. Due to the lack of settlement of overperformances by the Fund for the first half of the year after 8 months, the amount of these benefits, separately financed, carried out over the value of the contract concluded with the fund, currently amounts to more than PLN 14.3 million, including for the purchase of cytostatic drugs administered under drug programmes and chemotherapy programmes, almost PLN 11 million. This represents the monthly amount of hospital income. The lack of refinancing for such a long period makes the hospital in financial difficulty unable to make up-to-date payments for medicines. The second issue raised by employers running oncology centres, such as downtown in my town, it's a matter of concern. These include information on the need to extend the period for settlement of an unworked lump sum, an extension of at least half a year for the performance of unworked lump sums for 2020. The decrease in the number of patients admitted for the performance of benefits, for various reasons, including epidemiological... These were the recommendations of the chief health inspector or voivodship consultants. It is about the provision of lump sum medical services. There is information from the Fund about the need to catch up on lump sums during subsequent settlement periods. It's gonna sink the hospitals. Those are the concerns of the hospital managers. Hospitals that have now been forced to reduce their current activity will not be able to work out a drop, often at 40 activity, in subsequent periods. The imposition of such a condition, which would maintain the level of funding for lump sums, will additionally generate significant costs which are disproportionate to the normal operation of the institution and thus make the poor situation of hospitals worse. With effect from July 2020, Regulation No 104 of the President of the Fund of 8 July amending the Regulation on reporting rules and the conditions for the clearance of health care benefits related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 introducing a new clearing product in the form of an additional lump sum fee for maintaining readiness to provide healthcare does not cover a significant increase in hospital operating costs. This fee is 3% the value of benefits made by the hospital resulting from the account for a given reporting period, excluding benefits from drug programmes, chemotherapy and benefits allocated to the financing of the remuneration of nurses and midwives. This additional fee is only less than 1.5% for my hospital monthly costs. This is approx. PLN 217 thousand. The Galloping, significant increase in the cost of living during the period of the outbreak of Coronavirus, the increase in the price of materials, including disposable equipment and personal protection, as well as the drop in revenues make this insufficient aid. So it doesn't compensate for the losses. Another, last but not least, is the lack of regulation to obtain subsidies to cover the increase in fixed costs related to additional wage costs. Increased work in connection with procedures to ensure the epidemic protection of hospitals with high absenteeism of employees, e.g. due to the need to take care of children during the pandemic period or during the closing of schools, the use of welfare benefits and sick leave, as well as the necessary isolation and quarantine of workers, generate significant overtime and additional on-call costs. The laws on the fight against COVID are introduced in the form of so-called "COVID." In this respect, anti-crisis shields do not include hospitals operating in the PSZ system, i.e. primary hospital security. And the fifth, just a brief remark, is that the crisis shields do not include aid to independent public health establishments, which by law are undertakings. This results in a lack of direct material aid for the additional costs incurred by hospitals in relation to the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk about POZ. Of course, you can't put everyone in one bag. There are POZs that have always worked well and they work. There are POZs that, as they say, through a locked door... Well, they're not giving any advice, they're just someone at the front desk serving patients. Well, and of course the problem raised by patient organizations that you can't call, you can't register. This also indicates the fact that it seems to me that all this is unevenly presented here. Nevertheless, I believe that first-contact doctors should be on this first line of intelligence gathering, not only give teleposals. I also have a little doubt about this teleporad and the qualification for the test. Well, because anyone can say they've got a fever and they've lost their taste. You can read it on the Internet. And it can generate significant costs and not verify these really symptomatic cases. All the more so, as we raised at the beginning of the pandemic, 80.90% patients may be asymptomatic. And if they want to take a test, they can go or call the doctor first contact and say they have symptoms. Thank you very much. I think I have raised issues that may not apply to my profession, but from the employer's point of view they are extremely important. Because, I think, we still have a lot of very concrete decisions ahead of us in this fight for patient health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u309	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I really admire you for this enormous amount of peace. Well, you'd want every surgeon to react so calmly to such a difficult situation. Because the picture that we're drawing right now, in the days of Cortipinus, is rather a picture of the chaos and horror of the patients. I'm gonna talk about this from the patient's side, because for me, during my 45 years of work, he's always been sick. And what do the sick say, what do they feel, and what do they deal with? Not everywhere, of course. As my predecessor said, both in the POZ and in the specialist, as well as in hospitals, there are many places where everything works well. But in general, in average places, it's just a pure tragedy. Maybe I'll start over. Alivia did some research that only concerned oncology patients. 36% These patients were confirmed to postpone or postpone treatment, 29% could not have used SARS-CoV-2 tests in case of symptoms. 11% I'm sorry, 11%. Patients and 37% The staff didn't wear masks, so they showed these tests in the medical units where they should have these masks. 30% The patients reported a crowd in the hallways. 36 oncology centres have closed completely or partially periodically. And it's a terrible thing, but you know there was a warrant for medical staff to keep quiet about how bad things are in individuals. In general, the sick do not feel safe. And to tell you the truth, they don't just feel safe... I'm not talking about patients with COVID, I'm talking about all the sick, especially the chronically ill, who feel pushed away by the system, not taken care of and afraid to go... As a result of the media action that took place, presented both by you and probably partly by us, i.e. by health care, they were afraid to go to the doctor to avoid getting infected. Minister, I think it's time to turn this around right now. So there should be an action for people who are chronically ill... Because they're gonna start losing their lives, and it's not just the cancer patients, because chronic patients, patients from all walks of life, can lose their lives. And finally another problem, very serious, is the lack of tests. Without tests, there's no way there's a proper diagnosis. This is where my friend said the money's gonna get muddy, because people are gonna be demanding tests as soon as they think about it: maybe I've got coronavirus, I'll call myself... Although they won't get through, because what most sick people report to my office, which they also report to my office, is that these tests aren't there. And finally, the first line. Minister, I don't know what you're gonna come up with. I know this is a tough situation, but something needs to be done. It can't be that first contact doctors don't watch sick people that this door is locked. In Wroclaw I saw with my own eyes, no, I won't tell where the line of older people standing to sign up to get a doctor to call them back. I mean, it's post-post paranoia. And I'll tell you what it's written to me, and not just to me: in case you have a house on fire... It was addressed to doctors: Dear Doctors! In case you have a house or a private office on fire, firefighters will give teleports on how to deal with the fire. And like I said in my questions, these teleports are the destruction of health care. They were needed, we ourselves... Maybe in the end I'll say something because I'm not the kind of person who likes to whine all the time and say that everything is wrong with the more positive. We in pediatric oncology didn't risk losing life, health, delaying treatment of any child. Why? Because the strategy that we adopted ourselves, throughout Poland, in all oncohaematology centers was as follows: telepories for patients who are in remission and who are safe, because currently there is no cancer. However, we continued to accept, even at the moment that Hania caught Coronavirus, we created a subunit of Coronavirus in our home, in Cape Hope, for early cancer treatment, because the cancer would kill. And the moment you guys lifted the lockdown, we had to open up a double number of clinics, which means there wasn't one doctor who was taking them to watch the kids we gave the teleporads. Because it's not the same thing, it's really not the same thing. I can't imagine anything happening to a child in a serious situation, even to one that's already been in a good situation... But we called them to see them, because it's fear to write a prescription if you don't see a patient. And one more positive thing. As you know, at the moment there is a global month of awareness of cancer diseases, so-called. A gold ribbon. The Foundation for the Rescue of Children with Cancer Disease on a nationwide scale at the moment runs such an action. All the children in Poland thanks to this action, which also consists in raising money here I could talk a lot, because it is also running, and various events during which we will get money, will have free established broviaki and parents will be taught how to take care of these broviacs. Minister, I believe you'll come up with something. It's not easy, but you have to... Unfortunately, when you rule, you have to rule with a strong and just hand, and it has to be so that it doesn't affect the sick and that no sick person in Poland loses his life because of another disease in the days of Coronavirus, and of course everyone with the coravirus also needs to be saved, it is known. It's just that right now, we have to balance the proportions, because in a few moments, a crowd of patients will be dying of chronic diseases. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u311	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the public, for Poles and Poles, health is a primary value, of which no one has any doubts. I think that for the government too, for you this is a great challenge to protect life, health, so that health safety is at the highest level. Is that so? It's not. For many years, we have been demanding that health be a priority for individual governments. It's a lot of things. We talk about this a lot, but unfortunately there is a problem with implementation. And you know that too, Minister. The lack of adequate funding, the lack of organisation, the problems that arise in the system, make the chaos in health care and problems always are. But this year's epidemic situation has exposed something else, has shown how many problems are in health care, where there are narrow throats, which does not work at all and how much we have neglected public health, how much we have to do in terms of prevention, promotion, education of people, and, to the surprise of many of us, within infectious diseases. These are really powerful challenges. If we asked Poles now if they felt safe or safe, I think the vast majority would say no. Why? The factors are many, abstracting from the system, from funding that will probably always be too low in health care. Minister, something very important has happened this year, namely chaos, fear, fear. I understand, because I'm a doctor, that at first we were all terrified, it was a difficult time. And here, in this room in February or March, we said it would be a big challenge. And that we had to take a good look at it, we felt that it was going to be something, we felt doubting, or that the opposition, as usual, wasn't exaggerating. Well, we didn't overdo it. I understand that you, quite rightly, have issued a lockdown decision, and you have given yourself time to adapt health care, which was not ready for this kind of challenge. For a few months, we only dealt with the treatment of Coronavirus, everything was focused on the fight against this disease. We forgot we had patients with other diseases. They stayed in their homes, they were left to themselves. Family doctors mostly closed down their facilities, gave advice only as part of telemedicine, and that was not enough. You, Minister, know very well that late diagnostics, late treatment at the moment or for a few more months in statistics do not go out. I understand that you're filling us in here with different data pillars, showing us that it's pretty good, but the reality will not come out until next year when we analyze death rates and morbidity rates. I hope I'm wrong, but I don't think this painting is gonna be the best. I had great expectations and I was waiting for this strategy that we are talking about today, because I think we all want it to work. We all want the patient to feel secure so that he doesn't get killed in the system, only that he has a path and knows what to do, step by step, when he's sick because of Coronavirus, and that he has access to other benefits when he's not sick. And we want it to work. But it was a fake start. The new minister is here... Besides, it's very strange for me that Minister Szumowski left at the moment when he was really needed most. And he himself said that as captain of this ship, he wouldn't come down during the epidemic. But he came down, at the hottest moment, just before the strategy was announced. So the new minister, presenting this strategy, was really not his strategy. But what does it turn out to be? September 1st is the announcement of a strategy, and September 2nd is already in force, but on your website, on the website of the Ministry of Health, it is only posted on September 3rd. Well, how are the units supposed to do that? Minister, all I'm asking for is one thing: talk to the doctors. First, talk to the doctors, with the healthcare providers, and then issue these regulations, strategies, etc. And in this case, the same thing happened... After all, the next day or two later, you came to your POZ doctors and changed your standards, i.e. The ones the Minister announced. And you don't need that kind of stuff, really. First you have to talk, first you have to determine... After all, doctors want good for their patients too, they want good for themselves, because they also have to take care of their own protection. As for strategy, how it will be realized, how it will be executed, we'll see. We can't judge that right now. But the beginning wasn't good. And the fact that I'm reading more articles today about the fact that there are doubts in the offices that there is no access to the office application. gov.pl that there is no contact with computer scientists, and you do not answer their doubts... Well, that raises doubts as to whether it's all being clarified. This is one element. The second element is those unfortunate vaccines that we are talking about here today. I think prevention is also planning. Since we knew at the beginning of the year that the autumn would be a problem, because we knew and we all said, and we, and the state, that the second wave is inevitable, then, in February, March... I think there are people responsible who should be planning this. So these groceries should be much bigger. I understand, sir, that you promise to order that they'll be... But will they? We don't know that. Besides, about 1 million 700 thousand are ordered... As the Minister said, we have so far been creating a population of ca. 4% but this year's interest is greater. And I think you should see this coming, too, because we wanted to, we educated, we encouraged people to vaccinate themselves to somehow reduce all these complications. And now there's a problem, now there's a very big problem, Minister, because patients go to the pharmacy, they ask us, they call us, they probably come to you with intervention too... What do you want us to tell them? How are we supposed to educate them and encourage them to immunize if they're not at the most important time of the epidemic year? Greece has 4 million vaccine orders... An incomparably smaller country, and yet it managed to obtain these vaccines. And again, there's a question as to whether we're sure to secure our purchases at the right time... My question about vaccination is one more thing, namely how to change... Because right now, the vaccine is to be bought at the pharmacy... Actually, it's not a change, it's been a change anyway. We buy the vaccine at the pharmacy, and we get the vaccine at the POZ. But like those patients who go to the pharmacy... There are sick people out there, possibly with a suspicion of coronavirus. Are they supposed to be in touch? Why haven't you worked out the isolation path for the past few months, as in the case of sick and healthy children? There are entrances for people with no fever, with diseases... I mean, that would be easy. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Yes, sir.]] Well, not exactly. Yesterday we spoke on the Health Committee... POZ doctors have really big doubts. If that's the case, talk to the doctors. It's from yesterday's committee meeting... And another thing that we have been calling for since the beginning of the epidemic is testing. We believe that these tests are unfortunately not enough and that throughout this period you are somehow controlling them. The more tests are done, the greater the detection rate, it's normal, but at the moment I hear again that there's 10,000 a day, 15,000... [[Time...]] We should strive to ensure that these tests are as high as possible. Then we'll have all these elements of safety and prevention linked to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u313	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary. [[A passerby?]] I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I don't know the origin of this mask... Someone left her here, I'm sorry... [[I, I...]] Ah, senator. So far, everything is happening among doctors, as I see, the whole debate and facial exchange as well. That's very interesting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is absolutely no time for political speeches or some massive criticism and misrepresentation. We're at some stage in this pandemic, and it's probably starting some second stage right now, so I'd say, maybe that's how it's going to be historically mentioned someday. I will say a few critical remarks, but consider them as a doctor's voice practice, a man who comes into contact with these problems and predicts more or less what will happen. Maybe I'm underinformed to some extent, although I'm trying to keep up with it. We have something that we have successfully introduced teleports, introduced e-prescriptions and e-releases. It coincided with this epidemic, and it's a good thing that the possibilities were, because a few months or years ago, the situation would be much worse. And it's probably at some stage. It helped us. But now I'm going to express my concerns. The first concern is that we're moving this epidemic to POZ, we're moving it to the E.R. and the S.R. where she's been, but now we're sanctioning it. And then there's this concept where... Let me put it this way: the infectious diseases and hospitals that have them will continue to be exempted from diagnostics to some extent in this concept. Patients are to report to the normal emergency rooms and to the S.R., including those suspected of being coronavirus or suspected by the emergency services that will come to them. And we're sanctioning that for the next few months, maybe a year, it's hard to tell how long it's going to be for ordinary hospitals. I don't know if that's the right thing to do, because it's also coming out of these abraded medical pathways. Well, whenever there's a ward somewhere, let's say neurologically, that's where it's diagnosed if we have a stroke or if we don't have a stroke or if it's some other disease. And here we go away from that rule and transfer these suspicions of coronavir to all hospitals. The POS should, of course, work. Of course, the fact that there are places where there are only TVs, well, it's incorrect, it shouldn't be like that from the beginning. Anyway, hospital clinics, e.g. In the hospital where I work, but in many others, they act and accept patients. And it doesn't happen that doctors take in suits and so on. The patients come in, they're wearing masks, we've made all kinds of changes, we've introduced plexi curtains to make it some kind of isolation, etc. Well, simple actions that prove effective. At least so far there are no major obstacles to the work of these clinics. So it can be done. And I think it is important to introduce the principle that POS are working, they are taking patients. Yeah, but now it's like there's gonna be teleports and teleports... These five symptoms have already been mentioned here. Well, it's not happening. In neurology, we have e.g. It's like a Charcott Triad. These are chanted speech, intent tremor and nystagmus. And in the 19th century, a very famous doctor of that time developed such a triad that then we can recognize multiple sclerosis. Well, it turns out it's not. The magnetic resonance check revealed that it looked completely different. And today, too, it's wrong to demand five symptoms to be able to make a referral. It's not gonna work. It won't work in any way, unfortunately. It will work like Senator Gorgon-Comor said: either the patients will be pulling up their symptoms, saying carefully to get this referral, or they will go to the S.R. Because that's where the patient needs to be admitted, examined. Well, how do you take it and examine it, then take a swab. And unfortunately, that's how it's gonna end. The second case, the three-five days before the next visit. It's like it's not in medicine so far. Why three or five days? I'm not talking about the coronavirus as such right now, but what if this third day is Saturday? That's what's gonna happen every week. Sunday will be the fourth day, the fifth on Monday. Plus, there might be a long weekend. Where are these patients gonna call this third or fifth day? And who's gonna answer those phones? Besides, it's gonna be a double visit. The patient will come, say, Monday and then he'll be on TV. And the second TV on Thursday or Friday. He needs to get back to you. And then there'll be new patients calling, Thursday or Friday. So they're actually gonna be double... It won't be 100%. patients, will only be 200% or 160% Or something. And now like this: every family doctor has to record it, he has to do the proper documentation. This TV isn't gonna be a minute, it's gonna be time-consuming. If he's still issuing a referral... Well, it takes time for a referral. Who's gonna alert the health department who's gonna keep an eye on this patient, who's gonna monitor what's going on with him? Well, probably that family doctor who's supposed to be taking patients not on teleporads anymore. So I think that while the opening of these clinics is absolutely necessary, but I do not know why there is no "perhaps it is technically very difficult to do" such a principle that if the patient has a fever, he has symptoms of upper respiratory infection... In general, let us not demand these five symptoms. Why can't he just get a referral before he goes to POZ? So I'm gonna do a teleporade, I'm gonna get a referral, I'm gonna do a test in the morning between 7:00 and 8:00 p.m., and after 6 or 7 hours I'm gonna have the result of this test, let's say it's negative for coritos. It's symptomatic because it has symptoms. Well, maybe he's got bacterial pneumonia, maybe he's got the flu, it's hard to say, I don't know, because it's starting. And to come to visit in the afternoon on the same day with the result... If it's positive, it obviously doesn't come because there's a different course of action. Such a way of working would cause patients to be supplied, and POZ safe, because the patient would come with... I mean, safe when it comes to coritotus, because of course this patient is infected, has flu or pneumonia. Yeah, but you know it. Now let's get patients with pneumonia, some older people with pneumococcal pneumonia or something. Third or fifth day... Well, three days waiting in this case... And since these patients are going to be a lot and a lot of these phone calls, some patients are going to be waiting 3 days or 5 days. Well, in a patient, I don't know, 70-year-old with cardiovascular failure and pneumonia, you know how this could end. So that somehow I'm not predicting a lot of success here, although I'm in favour of running a POZ. Next thing. Maybe like this: there seems to be some inconsistency. The Voivodeships gave orders. Indeed, I was ordered by the voivodeship, too. It says here that I should give you how many isolation sites in the hospital I'm going to create. I don't think that's right. I'm gonna get an order on how much I'm gonna make. There should be some prognosis. For example, in surgery, create 2 places. Because there's a chance that, like the Minister said, He's going to hit a coronavirus patient, but he needs to stay in this hospital and be operated on. And it's happening. E.g. they're giving birth to patients with coronavirus. They come into labor, we swab them, they start giving birth, the swab comes after 8 or 7 hours, and it turns out I'm going to say ugly, positive. But so, we can't wait. So these are situations that are natural. Yeah, but now I'm supposed to serve... I've given you how much I want to create... what does it mean to create? They're made. This is also interesting, because the previous command of the voivode also required us to be ready to have such a place. And I even had control of the NFZ because I protested a little bit. It was checked if I created the so-called. Transitional branch. I made it. Of the 30 internist beds there are 7 because this is 7 insulation sites. And if I hadn't, I'd have been punished by the NFZ because it was already such a situation that I was a little reluctant to do it, because I thought that's how I would limit access to internist beds. And that's what happened. But if that was the order, I followed it. And now we're moving on to the NFZ, to that payment... Since I'm supposed to have insulation beds, since I'm supposed to have a transitional ward, since the S.O.R. is also divided. 'Cause that's what had to happen. For the zone, let's call it, the suspicion of COVID and other patients, then this contract or the lump sum cannot be realised. The Minister says, and here I completely disagree that we can create additional places. It's the other way around. I mean, covid places aren't gonna be extra beds in places that don't really correspond to sick rooms. In the infirmary, of course, and even better with a separate toilet, so that it's some sort of, say, pseudo-isolate or solitary. So the situation is the other way around. These beds are gonna be a little lost in hospitals that need to prepare to fight the coronavirus, at least at the diagnostic stage. So this non-compliance with these lump sums will continue. I think that expecting hospitals to catch up, and sometimes with the NFZ, there's this kind of voice... Well, they're not gonna make up for it anymore. We know this because you said to us the vice-president of the NFZ during the Health Committee's proceedings that 70 and 90% is the non-performance of the contract. Well, that also depends on where, because there are places where there was almost no Coronavirus. In one of the counties after probably only yesterday there was a Koravirus. so there were completely different working conditions, but in other places it is different. So I think the NFZ... I know it's hard to say that we're gonna pay you anyway, because for business reasons, it may not be quite right, but it will, because these hospitals are gonna stop treating if they don't get a full contract. What's the difference? If we didn't take as many patients as we should, that doesn't mean the hospital didn't work. The doctors were on duty, the nurses were working... [[Time.]] All right, I'm on my way. But there aren't enough debaters, so maybe you can extend my speech a minute longer. The situation is that the hospitals were still working, and hospitals are often spending 80/90% at the moment. variously understood wage costs, because these are contracts, etc. It wasn't like that. with planes that didn't fly, so there were no operating costs and no revenue. Well, hospitals have income, it's paid 1/12 But they're spending. It's not that... almost as much as they spend on the total performance of the contract, and if you take into account the increase in costs associated with all that we have to provide for patients... Well, that's how it works. Very briefly, then... Minister... [[Mr. Senator, you've been speaking for 15 minutes.]] I'm just finishing this up, but... [[It's a 50% overstepping...]] ...I have two more things to say. Let me say it. Here's the thing. Minister, hospitals are now writing recovery plans. You didn't withdraw that duty. How are they supposed to write recovery plans if they don't know anything? This is now total fiction throughout Poland. They don't know how they're gonna be financed, they don't know if they're gonna get the money, whether they're gonna get the money, whether they're gonna get the settlement period extended, and if so, if so, etc., etc. Well, there will be fiction all over Poland. He can let it go, he can't impose that obligation, because it's unnecessary right now. Hospitals must write this and present to the creation bodies which will adopt fictional resolutions. Well, I don't know if that makes sense. And one last thing. Senator Szejnfeld is not here, but I was a little moved by what he said about the private and public sector. The public sector in the form of hospitalization has behaved very well and has relied on it to fight against COVID. It was the private sector that didn't work. After all, many private hospitals stopped working, stopped receiving patients, etc., etc. Private offices, counseling, that's a little bit different. But I'm not gonna let you attack the public sector like that. I believe that because we had a public sector, we could fight this epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u315	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'm sorry, but...]] Well, you're way out of time. Please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we had a Senate Health Committee meeting on the same subject. There was information similar to the information we had today from Minister Kraska. Well, there were a little more today because some of the information was forced by our questions. After listening to the Minister and the President of the NFZ yesterday, and today, Minister Kraska, we should actually be reassured. That the situation is difficult, that we all know, but the government is aware of the difficulties, is aware of the limitations and, I say so colloquially, it's all under control. The disease caused by the coronavirus, of course, was very disturbed. the functioning of the whole health system. But is that it? She's ruined the whole country's life. We are all aware of its enormous costs, economic costs, financial costs and social costs. In this group I do not have to tell you what social costs family isolation, separation, quarantine, the need to take care of children, not to work. We know all that. The cost of treatment in this situation is... You should have seen them coming. It turns out that the cost of treatment is rising, and the revenue of the state as a result of the lockdown restrictions has decreased considerably. And yet there is no collapse. After the initial difficulties, mainly due to the surprise of not being able to buy the right number of masks, gloves, disinfectants... today, this problem is gone. The companies of the Treasury, which have been involved in helping health care from the beginning, as well as the public, such as Orlen, KGHM Polska Miedź or Lotos, have caused that there is no problem today in buying protective products, because personal hygiene products in shops have always been. I can't agree with the statement that we have a situation of chaos, some tragedy, that the system didn't work. We're talking about fear and fear of society. What should be our role here? Are we to fuel this fear, to cause panic, to spread defeat? Or are we supposed to calm down and point out that the government is aware of what isn't working yet? Yesterday, I was discussing at the committee meeting... I can even agree that the pandemic has exposed some shortcomings in health care, but that doesn't mean that the system didn't work and that we're not aware of these deficiencies. Instead of freaking out, spreading defecation and wasting our strength on criticizing all government activities, we should perhaps focus on informing the public about the good things that the authorities have done and about the fact that... Following statistics... maybe not so much statistics as the daily epidemiological data, we can see that the virus fortunately loses its virulence. He's... He's still infecting. That's a big number. Indicators show that we've got more and more cases of disease, and I think yesterday was probably less, 421, if I remember correctly. But such mortality as at the beginning of this virus in Poland does not cause. I'd like to say a few words about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, am I disturbing the senators? [[No, the senator is inspiring us.]] Well, thank you. [[You inspire us to join the discussion.]] [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] Thank you very much. It's a teleporad theme. You can get an impression after all the questions asked in today's discussion that in the case of all Polish medicine, the benefits given to patients take the form of teleporads. Maybe that's the way things are, but... It's a government thing. I, as the director of a small but yet specialized, oncology center, as all the directors have been instructed, have been informed that teleportation is possible, but not the only form of advice. The purpose of the teleport is to talk to the patient and tell the doctor whether teleportation is sufficient in the case in question, or whether the patient needs to report in person. If it comes in person, we also have recommendations, precise guidelines, how chairs should be set up in the waiting room, etc. After all, today the NFZ with no one who does not meet the conditions for patient and staff health protection does not enter into a contract. So the waiting rooms must be sufficiently large, the movement of the sick must be well organized. Just as I've always made sure that the patient in the waiting room doesn't get bored, I've provided leaflets, newspapers, even Senate magazines that everyone throws in the basket, I drive my suitcases and I put them on the tables, and they're spread like fresh muffins, so I don't do it now so that there's no way that there's no way to carry the virus by touching the newspaper. The patient, entering the clinic, these are also recommendations, the staff guarding it, must have gloves, must have a mask, at different levels are disinfectants for patients, for doctors. So it's not just that we're giving or that the government's allowed to provide medical services only in the form of teleporads. Of course, the doctor's decision, is it enough to teleport, or does it require personal contact, is difficult because it is a choice: do I put a patient's life at risk, or do I put my life at risk? The choice is your doctor's, the doctor's decision must be made on his own. Patients in Poland... By the way, I would like to remind you that whatever we say, let us remember that no one died in Poland because of lack of access to a ventilator, in Poland we did not stop treating seriously ill older people from PDPS and care and care facilities, in Poland there were no night funeral convoys and mass graves, in shops there was never any lack of food or protection of personal resources, and in the peak of diseases Minister Szumowski had more than 70% recognition of Polish society. Today you are crying because the minister has left now when he is most needed, and a few weeks ago, a motion was made to cancel him. I think that we are all aware, we should be aware that a pandemic for the state and for health protection is such a martial law, a state of higher necessity. And I think that's not good. I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday at the Health Committee meeting. For many politicians, for many journalists, this has also become an excuse for many health workers, this proverbial stick, which can be laid down by the government. Thank you very much, thank you for listening, but also finally thank you to all those who are committed to keeping the pandemic under control in Poland, and health professionals, and society, disciplined society, people who, however, mostly adhere to wearing masks, disinfection of hands and other recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u317	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak today, but after that, unfortunately, I didn't feel calmed and I remembered all the recent events that happened in my life in relation to health care, which is supposed to be working fantastic. I spent my summer in a small town where I got sick. I called the only clinic in the area. Of course, you accepted my application and declared that the doctor would call me. Five minutes later, you called and said, "But you don't exist in our system." I said yes, because I'm here on vacation. Oh, no, ma'am, our clinic is closed. Call your doctor. So I felt very calm that I would have to get in the car and drive 180 km to see my doctor. If this is how health care works and so calms all citizens who have the opportunity, not like the senator in the clinic, to have access to advice... and perhaps you in the clinic do not have a clause of conscience regarding the doctor's safety before contact with the patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u319	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u320	Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[You're welcome.]] Senator, if you'd just listen... [[I've been listening very...]] ...was from the beginning... [[Senator, please don't interrupt.]] ...in this debate and she listened to all the questions, all the answers, she listened to everything we said here, and so did the senators of the coalition, and if you listened with understanding, you would be ashamed of this speech. Thank you. [[I'm not ashamed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u321	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Me too. Me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, ……]] In that case, please take the floor of Mr. Marshal Senator Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u322	It's really gonna be short. I also listened with interest, I looked at this debate and I understand that everything is fine, that it is wonderful, that we are not to be alarmed, that this anxiety is some strange force that causes. I just have a question about this to... [[But the questions are over.]] I have a question for the senator. Why don't you tell the senator where I can buy a prescription or a prescription, a flu vaccine?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u323	Thank you very much, Senator, but that's the question... [[A flu vaccine.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry, it's... [[But this is...]] But there's no way the senators are asking each other questions right now because... (Senator Bogdan Borusewicz: Mr...) [[It was a rhetorical question.]] I understand, so I take it as a rhetorical question. And that's why... [[No, it's a rhetorical question. I know the rules.]] Well, that's what I'm talking about. [[That's a rhetorical question.]] But the senator already wanted to answer them. I'm sorry to inform you that for rhetorical questions... [[Then I won't answer.]] ...we can't answer that. [[That's more, Mr. Marshal, me.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. We're starting an irregular round of rhetorical questions. It's kind of a novel, but... [[Thank you very much. No, no...]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u324	I don't have a rhetorical question, I just have a speech. I won't walk again, I'll tell you from here, if you don't mind. Namely, well, again, when I listened to Senator Chudowska, I was informed that Parliament and the senators are not here to criticize. Let's not criticize, says the senator, let's not do it, let's focus together, etc. I've known these calls for years, and I've known them for years. And I'm sure the senator heard them once. Well, we're just here to criticize, not praise. Although, of course, good things are said, and here they were. But when the health professionals who are present in this room, who are practicing, show that there are shortcomings, lack of information, lack of various kinds of resources, these are valuable information for the minister. Perhaps the Minister already knows them, perhaps not. It may be different in your facility, but it's different in others. And that's why it's such a call not to criticize, just focus together, concentrate, praise, etc., well, it's just out of place. Now, about that vaccine he was talking about here... That was a great question. Exactly. Well, because it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. Where can I buy a vaccine? I'd like to ask that question, too. [[It's rhetorical.]] I'm sure the Minister would have gotten me that vaccine somehow, but it's about an average citizen. Well, I've heard calls from all medical authorities, including government officials, to vaccinate themselves against flu, because, first of all, it weakens the effect of Coronavirus, and secondly, the point is that there should be as little flu as possible, because for health care it could be a disaster. It's hard to recognize these symptoms right away, everyone throws themselves, someone sneezes, they throw them out of the room, etc., etc. Therefore, this has grown to a fundamental point at all during this period. And after these calls, we find out that there are no vaccines, and there's going to be about as much as there was last year, a little more, even though you might think... The Minister himself said that the polls you're doing are very good that you're doing them. They show that 30% of citizens want to get vaccinated. Well, well, it's not gonna be 30%, it's gonna be 20%, it's gonna be $6 million, like I said. It turns out that there is no such thing, that somehow you didn't see it coming, and the actions that you are taking, unfortunately, have been presented very cloudyly. There are some conversations, somewhere, etc., but no deadlines... We don't know if there's gonna be more of those vaccines or not, or when. So, Senator, at least it's not okay in this case, it's not okay. And that's what we're showing you. I would like to say once again that from many lips were also positive assessments of some of the government's actions, so I think that... [[And mine have no right?]] [[Please don't do polemics from the O.R.]] No, no, they can. I say it again, they can. Mrs. Senator mentioned things, right, but at the same time, you said that one sentence too much. Let's not criticize... [[But I didn't use the word critic.]] You used it, you used it. [[You're welcome, Senator.]] And that's where I'm gonna end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u325	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed because the list of speakers has been exhausted. Would the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Mr. Marshal, it is late, so for health care... Thank you very much for this discussion.]] Thank you, Minister and Senator. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 160 and the committee's report In printing 160 S corrected. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u326	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I don't think there's gonna be any longer speeches or excuses in this case. I'm the committee's rapporteur. This is the Senate initiative, which has been examined by these two committees, which you mentioned here, and has been adopted and recommended by these two committees to the High Senate. Because it is, as I said, the Senate initiative, so two words need to be said about its content and character. She, you can say, is still a continuation of the previous initiative, also a senate initiative, which she had, let's say, such a popular name: retired in 1953. This initiative has been breaking through for a year, there has been some resistance to this issue, but it has finally been adopted and entered into force. In short, I would like to remind you that, in various ways, people, not only women, born in 1953, who passed early retirement in 2008, after 1 January 2013 reached the general retirement age and, unfortunately, fell into a trap, because from 1 January 2013 the law that was applicable to those in early retirement began to apply, the so-called common retirement pensions. normal, minimized. The Constitutional Tribunal has spoken in this case, challenged this and hence this law. Like I said, she's already in effect. By the way, when we prepared that bill, we discussed it, it was discussed and in the Senate and in the Seym, it turned out that in the situation, as the lawyers say, a relegant or similar one, there were also other people who were not necessarily born in 1953. Specifically, it is about men born even a few years earlier, since 1949, and women born later, since 1954. Namely, this is about people who have gone to early retirement not with the article. 46, that's an article about all of them. Everyone could then retire early only because they worked under special conditions. In this regard, they had the privileges of being able to move to early retirement at a certain early age. And these people were in exactly the same situation, they were retired early in 2009, 2010 or 2011, and their retirement age was later, as early as 1 January 2013. They were also reduced in pensions, and they also rightly include themselves in the same group as the female pensioners of 1953, a group of victims. In order to make up for it and eliminate this injustice, there is a law that covers these groups. Detailed solutions are similar to those contained in that law, so I will not discuss them at the moment. To conclude, all I can say is that of course the joint committees recommend the adoption of a law and the elimination of this obvious injustice. This will certainly be very well-accepted, just as it was with the previous law by the interested parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u327	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. Would any of your senators like to ask a question that may last no more than one minute to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants, who is the same honorable Senator Marshal? You're welcome. Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. I think the Senator rapporteur is able to answer that question. I don't know the answer. Does the solution proposed in this law take into account the uniform rules for the reimbursement of benefits due to those entitled in the year 1953? There are questions or even requests that the Constitutional Tribunal examine the case. Is the Law of 19 June 2019 in accordance with the Court's judgment? Retirement girls in 1953 say they've been split up. One counts 254 months, the other counts 209 months, and another counts differently. That's a question. I have received numerous letters from various people who ask such questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u329	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u330	Yeah, of course I know those letters, those e-mails that come in. This case was brought up in the process of working on that bill. It's not a thing that's only come up now. Even when we were working on that bill, we said there would be such differentiation. I mean, one group... Retired or generally retired, it could also be men....can be divided according to a fairly simple criterion. Namely, the first group are those who, after 1 January 2013, when they reached retirement age, decided to take a universal pension. They applied, they were deducted from their early retirement capital, but since their retirement was higher than their previous pension, they agreed to receive it. This is the first group. Those in the second group, when their retirement age came, learned that the new pension after these reductions would be lower, so they decided to continue to take early retirement. In a situation where the 1953 Retirement Act enters into force, we must comply with the provisions of other laws, above all the pension law as one that says that if someone was in early retirement and did not retire universally 'Cause maybe. He didn't want to, it was his right. This makes use of those provisions that are in force and is converted into pensions, e.g. in 2019. We are at the moment the Act on Retirement of the 1953 Year, but also the one I am talking about today, we are very clear that they must complete this process within 6 months, i.e.. They can no longer be retired early, and if they want to do so, they will never be able to retire again, so at the moment they have a choice, in short. Of course, then they have, so to speak, a higher increase in pension, but they do not have compensation. And those retired women or those retired people who decided, for example. in 2014 take this universal pension, at the moment they have this pension converted, increased, the increase is lower, but they receive quite high compensation for the period during which they took a lower pension. This compensation, in terms of the Act on Retired Persons of the Year 1953, was an average compensation of over 12 thousand PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u331	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as I can see, there's no... [[There it is, there it is.]] There's one more question. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! We have considered this issue once before, and we have dealt with it in our previous term of office. The question is... The last opinions that have been put forward on this project, which is already dealing with a certain section of the case, so that I can define it, e.g. The opinion of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, but also the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court, is somewhat detrimental to this project. Tell me why these opinions are unfavorable. What is it they don't share in the reasoning you have put forward here? What is the obstacle to a positive opinion? Because from the point of view of what you have put forward, the principles of fairness, so to speak, should be as proposed by the Senate. But these opinions, in particular... Let's assume that we're gonna dismiss the opinion, possibly biased. I do not claim that this is the case, but it is theoretically possible to assume that the Minister is paying, but the first President of the Supreme Court is sure to uphold the consistent application of the law and its consistency. Why, though, is this opinion unfavorable?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u333	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u334	But did you... I have to say that when it comes to the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, of course I remember it and I know what it was about, but as far as the Supreme Court is concerned, I'm sorry to say this. I don't recall... does the senator have that opinion in front of him?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u335	I may read the last sentence:. As a result, it seems that the proposal contained in the evaluated project is not justified. This, of course, is a longer line, probably seven-page or six-page...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u336	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'll remind you that the questions will last a minute. It is very difficult to imagine the question of quoting a 7-page justification that would last a minute. I'm sorry, but... [[No, no, that's clear.]] [[No, no, I'm definitely not gonna do it or...]] I, on behalf of the senator, would like to clarify what you're asking. Because, as I understand it, Senator Borowski has answered that he does not know the content of the document you are referring to, so it is difficult for him to respond. But if he's gonna get to know him, it's gonna be way over a minute. [[I'm not trying to quote this document here, I'm just suggesting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u337	I think this is what we're gonna do, Senator. This legislative initiative, on the other hand, I am reporting, but it is already after the amendment, because since the committee had finished its work, and it was still in August, and when the project became known, we received other kinds of information, among others. There are also a few other amendments to the ZUS opinion, and therefore a committee meeting will be held and I will be able to take a closer look at these matters by then and then I will be able to answer them. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] But as far as the job ministry's opinion is concerned, there were two arguments. One is the one that can easily be overthrown, namely... It was Minister Swed who signed these opinions and at the committee meeting we were, I hope, explaining it to ourselves. Namely, he used the argument that if he had adopted this law, then the ladies born in 1952 could also benefit from its solutions, and the Constitutional Tribunal itself, in its explanatory memorandum, provided an example that someone who was born in 1953 is indeed being wronged Unlike someone who was born in 1952 because he already knew about this new law and could direct his fate... Well, the law I'm talking about doesn't include women born in 1952. Maybe there's just been a misunderstanding here. The second argument was also a financial argument. Well, this bill costs, you can say, so on a regular basis about PLN 1 billion 300 million and this is not some stunning amount In turn, the level of compensation is in the order of 3 billion 300 million. But what do I do? These things need to be adjusted. If the Polish state stands every year for a 13th and even 14th pension, within the limits of PLN 10 billion, then we must say to ourselves that first let us regulate what is definitely right and what can be said was due to violations of certain constitutional rules, and only then let us pay the amounts which are certainly valuable and necessary. But it doesn't come from, I'd say, some kind of debt. So much for the ministry's opinion. And in that case, like I said... [[Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u338	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... It'll be literally one sentence. The opinion is dated 30 July, I'm talking about the Supreme Court's opinion, the first President of the Supreme Court. July 30th is two weeks after the project started. So it was kind of written for a freshly-- so I'd put it that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u339	Yeah, we're the only ones who've been sitting or July 29th, or... maybe July 30th, but maybe July 29th. Well, maybe she came later, just later, and maybe we're not... [[But she's on the website, and you're the applicant...]] I understand. It's just that it could... Sometimes there's a misunderstanding... [[Gentlemen of the Senators, your current exchange of views takes place outside any regulations.]] I can't help it. Anyway, I'm sure I'll get to know her, and at the committee meeting... We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u340	Thank you very much, Senator. Since there are no further questions for the Senator rapporteur, we thank the senator. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy maintains its opinion in writing. We believe that the negotiated solution is contrary to the fundamental insurance principle of linking the amount of the benefit with the amount of the contributions paid. We believe that the Law of 19 June 2020 fulfilled the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on persons born in 1953, and we maintain this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No.]] No. I want to inform you that I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I've announced the amendments, so I'm about to hand them over. As I said, these are mainly due to comments made by the Social Insurance Institution. It seems that they clarify, make sense and simply improve this law, so I would like to make these amendments. There you go. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] And taking advantage of the fact that I am taking part in the discussion after the Minister's statement, I would just like to say that I have not heard any argument in the Minister's statement. The key issue is whether those persons who are included in this bill are in the same situation as retired women in 1953. There is no denying that they are in exactly the same situation. As far as the Court's judgment is concerned, we explain for the very last time that the Court has dealt with the case on the grounds of a preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice, perhaps the Court of Justice in Szczecin, because one of these pensioners has brought an action before that court. The Court is bound by the scope. She was a retired woman, of course, born in 1953. The Court is bound by the scope, it has stated in this case, but at the same time in the explanatory memorandum it states that a citizen cannot be surprised by such solutions, just like the lady. Therefore, we are dealing with a general principle, probably obvious, and there is nothing to be divorced about it here. In fact, the Ministry of Labour never put forward any convincing argument that would point out that these people simply should not be in any other situation. They're in exactly the same situation. By the way, I would like to say that in 2013, probably in September or October, a Member of the Law and Justice filed an interpellation on this matter, submitted it to the then Minister of Labour, and in this interpellation he wrote exactly what I am saying at the moment, i.e. wrote that here are various kinds of valuable workers, such as teachers, artists, working at heights or fishermen, etc., i.e. those who worked under special conditions, were affected by this act of 2012 and the victims And that they should be compensated, compensated, amended. It was a very hard, very correct interpellation. This Member's name was Andrzej Duda. I don't think it's right to discuss this with the president. Thank you. [[Thank you very much, senator. I'm informing you that...]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, just a formal matter. Since I have tabled amendments, I would like to ask that the vote on these amendments be held at this meeting, which is, in short, for the committee to consider these amendments accordingly...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u344	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Janusz Pęcherz made his speech in the discussion on the minutes, while Senator Marek Borowski submitted a legislative proposal. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Iwona Machalek: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Senator Marek Borowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2019. The text of the report is contained in print No 159. I would like to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2019.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its forty-third meeting on 14 July 2020 adopted a report on the petitions that were examined in 2019 which was included in Senate printing No 159 and which was submitted to the High Senate. In Senate VII and VIII of the Senate's term of office, work was undertaken at the initiative of the Senators' Group on the drafting of the petition law, which was finally adopted on 11 July 2014 and after the annual period of vacathio legis entered into force on 6 September 2015, becoming applicable law. By creating a petition law, the legislator gave the citizen the tools to influence government or local government decisions in a crisis of social trust. Although the Act on petitions entered into force in 2015, the Senate Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, acting under the provisions of Section IXa of the Senate Rules of Procedure, has been considering petitions since 2009. In accordance with the provisions of the Senate Rules of Procedure, the Speaker of the Senate shall petition the Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission, after considering the petition and establishing the link between the subject-matter of the petition and the House's powers, may exercise one of the three powers: apply to the Senate Marshal for a legislative or resolution initiative, together with a draft law or resolution; after being recognised, forward to the authority which could include the petition in its work, at the time when we find that the government is working on the same petition; present to the Senate Marshal an opinion on the purpose of the Senate or its authority to exercise the powers laid down in the Constitution or the Senate Rules of Procedure. If the committee, after considering the petition, considers that the subject matter of the petition does not fall within the competence of the Senate, it may delegate it to the competent public authority, informing the Senate marshal accordingly. Following the examination of the petition, the committee also has the right not to take further action, as also reported by the Senate Marshal and indicates the reasons. It shall be for the committee to notify the petitioners of the actions taken or the reasons for not taking them. In accordance with the procedure adopted for the examination of petitions, the Department of Petitions and correspondence of the Office of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence shall prepare information on the subject matter for each petition. Each information contains a presentation of the subject-matter of the petition, a description of the petition requests and their justification, as well as an analysis of the legal status of the issue and the possible legislative work on the subject. When considering a petition, senators consult ministries, government offices and institutions and non-governmental organisations. The meetings of the committee shall be attended by representatives of those actors and petitioners who have the opportunity to present the requests made by their petition in person. In 2019 the Senate Marshal, or actually the Senate Marshals, sent to the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions in the 9th term of office 53 petitions, and in the 10th term of office 38 petitions. A total of 91 petitions were sent to committees in 2019, including 77 individual and 14 collective. The Commission continued its work on 20 petitions from 2018. In 2019 repeated petitions were not received by the Senate. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in 2019 discussed petitions at 16 meetings, each examining several or several of them. The Commission decided to continue working on 24 petitions, 2 petitions were left unattended at the request of their authors, and for the remaining petitions it was decided to complete or not take action. In deciding to complete the work on 4 petitions, the Human Rights Committee has asked several actors to consider the possibility of including the petitions' requests in the future work on amending the laws indicated in those petitions. Applications from 1 petition were sent to the Government Legislation Centre; to the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Also the conclusions of 1 petition; and to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the conclusions of 2 petitions. In the case of 4 petitions submitted to the Senate in 2019 there were the conditions set out in Article. 6 of the Act of 11 November 2014 on the transmission of petitions to the person responsible for examining them. Petitions were transferred to the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The petitioners were informed of their petition being sent to the relevant parties. On the basis of petitions to the Senate in previous years, legislative work was finalised in 2019 and 3 laws were passed. The first is the Act of 16 May 2019 amending the Police Act and certain other laws. The purpose of the petition was to allow legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of a police officer who was discharged from the service due to disciplinary punishment. The same changes included officers of Border Guard, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, CBA, Military Intelligence Service and Military Counterintelligence Service and Prison Service. The second petition that took the shape of the bill... It was the Act of 16 May 2019 amending the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure. The purpose of the amendment to the petition was to address the problem of sending letters by Polish citizens residing in European Union countries in connection with administrative proceedings. A change has been introduced which gives the possibility to send a letter to the postal service provider of universal postal services in another Member State of the European Union, which will be equivalent to a letter to the authority and recognition that the required time limit for carrying out the activity has been respected. The third law is the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Law of. Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws. The purpose of this regulation was to recognise Saturday as a day equivalent to that recognised by the Code as a day off from work. The regulation refers to the question of establishing the end of the time limit set for the exercise of the procedural act. Similar regulations already exist in civil, administrative or judicial proceedings. In the petitions considered in 2019, petitioners most frequently called for changes: civil law and civil procedure, that was 10 petitions; labour law, 7 petitions; family and caring law, 7 also; family pension, pensions, 6; taxes, public finances, perpetual use charges, 6; the situation of disabled persons, their carers and benefits, as well as criminal law and criminal procedure, 5 petitions. Ladies and gentlemen, if we analyse the number of petitions addressed to the Senate in 2019 in relation to the number of previous years, we will see that the number of petitions addressed to the Senate is increasing every year, as well as the scope of the legal issues included in the petitions is growing every year. Among the petitioners, the most numerous group of petitioners are individuals submitting individual petitions. At the same time, individual petitions more and more often include several to several requests which concern different legal acts. If we were to compare data from earlier years, it would be obvious that in the years 2009 to 2015 there were an average of 18 petitions per year in the Senate. In 2016, it was 69 petitions, compared with 13 petitions in 2015. In 2018 and 2019 it was 84 petitions and 91 petitions respectively. The ratio of individual petitions to collective petitions has also changed completely since 2015. Insofar as collective petitions, which were the emanation of more people, were prevailing until 2015, Very often these were large associations, which have submitted very thoughtful petitions, so since 2016, i.e. since the entry into force of the law, these proportions have changed very strongly. Apart from the fact that we have increased multiples, because as many as five times, the number of petitions, their composition also changes dramatically and since then there have been much more individual petitions than the collective ones. Until 2019, when there were 77 individual petitions and only 14 collective petitions. The examination of petitions by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions serves to implement the important civil law guaranteed by the Constitution. An analysis of the influence of the petition in 2019 shows that citizens have very numerous and often exercised their right to petition the Senate. The conclusions that follow many of the discussions we have had in committee are clear: five years of the petition law is sufficient time to determine the need for changes to be made in the law that could depend on... The first such change could consist in introducing at least a petition for the Sejm, the Senate and government administrations of a single register or a list of all petitions submitted, which would make it easier for citizens, but also for state authorities to understand the issues of petitions submitted. The second proposed amendment would consist in petitioning only one body, as at present one petition is submitted to several institutions, very often to the Senate, the Sejm, ministries or local government units, and each of these institutions must consider such a petition. Unfortunately, this leads very often to the fact that our employees, who prepare petitions, are working on them from the legal and formal side, working on petitions that are being dealt with by other bodies at the same time. And the Uzus that was created in our committee today is that we are most often waiting for a decision to be made either in the Seym or in the Ministry. Therefore, it is certainly a waste of time. That is why this demand to make changes in this area. And the third change would be to allow the oral petition to the protocol, or to reduce the number of petitions submitted by the same person, because we are currently dealing with about 100 petitions a year, and we are dealing with authors who, in a series of cases, very often in an unthoughtful way, petition in a large number, which does not affect the quality of our work, the quality of our secretariat's work. These are just some of the postulates that sounded in the discussion. These conclusions remain valid. But in the near future, we will be on our committee, after the discussions that took place earlier, seeking to launch an initiative to amend the petition law. And that was the conclusion that was made over political divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u346	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you senators like to ask the committee rapporteur questions? No. I'm opening a discussion. There are no senators enrolled. I would also like to inform you that no speeches have been made in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the committee rapporteur, Senator Alexander Pociej, like to speak again? As I understand it, the formula... [[No, thank you, even though you've encouraged Senator Borowski very much. I think I've exhausted the subject. Thank you very much.]] I thank the President for presenting the report to the Senate. I state that the Senate has read the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2019. Once again, thank you very much to the committee and to the senator for his work. The point on the Ombudsman's activities will begin tomorrow's Senate meeting, which will begin at 9 a.m. And by this very hour, I am now in charge of the recess wishing the ladies and gentlemen of the senators a quiet night. More messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u347	Dear Senators, I have 3 messages to make. The first: meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 15th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain Rights of Workers and the Act on the Real Estate Management will take place on 10 September, i.e. today, 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in connected rooms No. 179 and 176. So 10 minutes after the adjournment, there will be a meeting of the Human Rights Committee and the Local Government Committee in rooms 179 and 176. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the 15th Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act will take place tomorrow, 11 September, at 8.10 p.m. in room 182. And one last announcement. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals submitted at the 15th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws and to the draft Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them will take place tomorrow, 11 September, at 8.15 a.m. in Rooms 176 and 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-10-senat-15-1.u348	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 01]]
