ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 10, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 11.30, - Public Finance - hour. 12.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 2.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. 16. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Enterprise Development and Support - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Antismog Team - hour 13, - Parliamentary Podkarpackie Team - hour. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Care for Independent Persons - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Nurses, Obstetrics and Health Care Workers - hours 15.20, - Parliamentary Group for Development and Promotion of Polish Trade - h.m. 15.40, - Warmia-Mazury Parliamentary Team - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Electromobility - hour 16, - Świętokrzyskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 17, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 5:15 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 17.40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for presenting the messages. And now I ask Mr Grzegorz Braun, who wants to make a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u3	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for a break to convene the Senior Convention in order to put on the agenda the information of the Minister of National Defence on the purchase of a fighter, a multi-tasking aircraft for Polish aviation F-35. Yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence broke, ineffective - broken quorum by the ruling majority today. Therefore, the High House cannot rely on the information of the National Defence Committee on this matter, because the National Defence Committee itself does not have this information, because from yesterday's meeting you marched the Deputy Minister along with an assist of at least a dozen generals, colonels, who did not answer any of the questions asked, because the chairman of the committee closed its meeting. Thus, the request for information - with the debate of the High House - about this purchase, which amounts to the sum representing multiples of the Polish defence budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u4	Thank you very much for your formal proposal. Is Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke also... Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u5	I, with a formal proposal going further: that the Sejm should make a general decision that it is not lawful for the government to decide on large expenditures without at least the approval of the committee responsible and without the approval of the Sejm in the case of very large expenditures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u6	Thank you very much. The formal proposal will be made by Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u7	Thank you very much. Same mode. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would be worth listening to the government's information about the F-35 purchase. Recently, the Left applied for social security and increased the lowest pension. Perhaps, in connection with this debate, there would be resources - either better negotiations or fewer purchases of aircraft - for the poorest. It is also a matter of thinking that these measures for the disabled, which have been borrowed in quotes, should be of value for money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u8	Thank you very much, sir. In fact, the committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws, - specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020. The reports shall be in prints No 192 and 174, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection. There's an objection. So I'm running a five-minute break. In connection with my objection... [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 05 hrs. 10 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. Mr President, please take your seat. In connection with your request and after consultation, I agree to a 7-minute statement. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2020 (prints 113, 113-A and 174). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee... But the motion was for a recess to convene the Senior Convention. And during my break, I agreed to your request for statements to last seven minutes. My first motion for F-35. But you applied for a break in relation to the length of the club appearances. No. Yes, sir, that's how it was submitted. My first motion, Marshal. Check it out in the minutes. But you have made it clear here in my presence that you are referring to speaking time, Mr President. Now allow the rapporteur to speak. It was an objection at another point. Thank you for talking to me. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u9	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020, prints 113 and 113-A. On 9 January, the Sejm sent the above draft law and the self-correction to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission considered this proposal at its meeting on 21 January 2020. During the discussion was appreciated, among others. significant progress in defrosting the social fund, shifting the basis of calculation by 4 years. This will now refer to the 2018 base. There will therefore be a significant increase in this social fund. However, other provisions of the Around Budget Act from previous years, which were incidental, were preserved, so they passed to the following year, such as those concerning the financing of medical traineeships from the Labour Fund. Several changes of an editorial and legislative nature were made at the request of the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The Commission recommends that the above law be adopted in its wording. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u10	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the positive position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice vis-à-vis the draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! The above project deals with many very important elements of social life, among others. education, defence, health and the environment. The adoption by the Council of Ministers of a draft budget law for 2020 is linked to the need for statutory amendments aimed at, inter alia, to provide a material legal basis for the use of resources in such a way that public tasks by the State can be effectively and effectively carried out. It also involves reducing certain expenditure from the state budget. The proposed statutory amendments are necessary for the proper implementation of the budget law for 2020. This will include changes in this area, among others. The Labour Fund. The planned solutions include funding from the post-graduate internship fund for doctors, dentists and specialist training for doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. The proposed solutions also introduce the possibility of financing expenditure related to the equipment and modernisation of services subject to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. This is the financing of expenditure related to transport equipment, weapons, special technology, IT, communication and personal and protective equipment of officers within the framework of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Security Service in the years 2017-2020. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present to the marshal an amendment concerning the article. 20. The amendment is formal in nature. The aim is to identify a specific regulation on the financing conditions and the transfer of funds for 2020. Mr. Marshal! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u12	Thank you very much, sir. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u13	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! In the beginning, we should say: do not believe in fairy tales about the sustainability of this budget. The truth is, the government's planned spending will be higher than the government's revenue. In fact, more than 20 billion PLN - among others. for additional pension benefits - it has been pushed out of the budget, among others. to the Solidarity Fund, which on the so-called "Solidarity Fund." - in quotes - the thirteenth pension will still have to borrow. In addition, you transfer expenditure related to education or health care to local governments - in total it is about PLN 15 billion. This means that the government adopts regulations for which it does not provide funding to local governments. In total, it can be said that all these expenditures, i.e. about PLN 35 billion, have been pushed out of the budget. If these expenses were written down in it, we would have a significant deficit and there would be no balanced budget. The biggest sin in the creation of the financial plan for next year is the use of one-off income that will no longer be repeated in the future to finance fixed expenditure. Let's list them: conversion fee - 17 billion PLN to the budget, sale of CO2 permits [...] Let's get to the specifics and look at the proposals contained in the so-called. a budget-by-budget bill. There are several issues that cause controversy. Free medicines for older people over 75 years of age - this was the password with which in 2015. The piss was going to the election. It was then promised that for older people all medicines would be free, then it turned out that they would only be selected medicines and a small amount of money was secured in the state budget. The draft Around Budget Act provides that the government from the budget will no longer allocate a penny to medicines for the elderly, but will transfer the obligation to finance this programme and all expenditure related to it to the National Health Fund. The financial plan of the NF for 2020 - adopted in September last year - does not provide for this at all. 800 million PLN - that's what it's going to cost. It's a total of 10%. all the expenses that the NFZ has planned for the reimbursement of medicines purchased by patients in pharmacies. Underfunded and closed branches, SOR queues, specialist queues, drug refund problems - this is the reality of underfunded health care today. Now you will be able to add free drugs to this list for people over the age of 75, which you probably won't get, because you may run out of money, since the NFZ doesn't have enough money to meet the basic needs of health care. The second issue, which also causes controversy, is the financing of universities with bonds, for which the government wants to allocate more than PLN 1 billion. This is also quite strange financing, because it can be said that this PLN 1 billion can be added to subsequent expenditure pushed out of the budget. So if we add this to all the expenses that have been taken straight out of the budget, the deficit would be even greater. We can't agree to that either. The third issue concerns payments that are made by the drivers to the Central Vehicle and Driver Records. When registering a vehicle, buying an OC insurance or visiting a vehicle control station, drivers pay a special fee on the CEPiK. This money was intended to finance the construction, modernisation and maintenance of this system, which plays an important role in ensuring the safety of drivers or road safety. For four years, the current government has failed to implement this system. It still doesn't work the way it should. It is still not possible to check in the free internet service of the Vehicle History, whether the vehicle we are interested in was no longer occupied by the bailiff or set up by the bank. Employers are still waiting to be able to check that their employees have the right to drive cars. Since the government has not managed to create a system and the drivers have paid this money, it will be spent on something else, which, of course, is not in line with this destiny. This time the government came up with the idea that the drivers would finance the system to bring the Internet to schools. This money was intended for something completely different, and the management of the National Education Network was to be guaranteed in the state budget and this was already discussed a year and a half ago when that law was adopted. Today you try to jump on the driver's money and cover with this money completely different needs that drivers do not directly concern. In other words, now the budget can, of course, save money if the government can save money by fulfilling its statutory obligation to provide schools with free Internet and the development of state records, using the money collected from drivers for this purpose. This is a total of almost PLN 280 million. This money should also be used for something else. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I submit nine amendments to Mr Marshal, which concern among others. delete those points I mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Trela will now speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! The around-budget law must, of course, be considered integrally with the draft budget. Therefore, I will focus on the draft budget and the changes that the Left will propose during the work of the Committee on Public Finance and probably later in the plenary room. The first thing is education. You talk a lot about the education system, you talk about the higher spending on the education system, and unfortunately the truth is very different. And here I wanted to give you a few facts, which I also mentioned last night at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Imagine that if it weren't for local governments, no school in Poland or any educational institution would have practically functioned. Nearly PLN 27 billion each year is added to the education system by the Polish self-government. Of course, you will say that it is in the law that local governments take responsibility for schools as well. Just tell me and explain why you are making decisions about teacher increases, and these increases must already be paid by local governments. A very concrete example: 1 September 2019, increases for teachers, of course not enough, but some increases. The cost of these increases on a scale of 1 financial year is PLN 3 billion. You increase your subsidy by PLN 1 billion. 2 billion zlotys have to find in their own budgets, making savings and less spending on other things needed - for investments, for social assistance, for health care, for the necessary prevention programmes - to deliver on your promises and your declarations, and your commitment. The educational subsidy over the last 10 years is still proportionally lower for planned expenditure. When in 2007 the subsidy covered 70% expenditure on education, today only covers 60%, 40% The money needs to be added. And that's the first thing. I am talking about this because the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will make proposals to correct the budget law so that this subsidy in 2020 is higher and so that it can at least cover the current expenditure of local governments for the maintenance of schools. I think that's what all local government officials, all school heads are interested in, but most of all, the young people and children who attend these schools -- that the school should be modern and modernized by local governments and maintained by educational subsidies. We have an opportunity, and we have an opportunity to sort this out. Second thing. There is a great deal about pension benefits in the Around Budget Act and the Budgetary Act. There is funding for the 13th pension, which we have already mentioned on several occasions, that the Solidarity Fund is being reduced. We will also make appropriate proposals and amendments to the budget, but it is impossible to remind and not say - in the context of the budgetary discussion - about the project and proposals of the Left: the lowest pension in Poland - PLN 1600 per hand. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that in this case Law and Justice and, what surprised me, the Coalition of Law and Justice, the Civic Coalition, voted side by side so that the lowest pension would not amount to PLN 1600 per hand. And this concerns nearly 1 million Poles and Poles who cannot make ends meet, and pension is not enough for them from the first to the last day of the month. System solutions are much better than one-off and individual solutions. This, too, will be discussed in the budgetary debate and in the amendments to the budget of the Left and the relevant changes in this area. The left will suggest. And the third thing - because there is no more time to refer to the individual elements of the budget or the around budget bill - is medicines. These free, pseudofree medicines for 75+ seniors, which are described in the around budget bill so: that there is more money and there will be more, you will be able to implement this program... We will propose another solution, which is also integral to the budget - so that prescription drugs in Poland for everyone, not only the senior, will cost no more than 5 PLN. It is a system solution, it is a real help for all Poles and Poles, it is a relief for pensioners, it is a relief for people who are still working, it is finally a relief and help for children who permanently have to buy medicines due to long-term and long-term illnesses. We will also talk about this in our proposals and amendments to the budget and talk about it. Today, no proposals, no amendments to this bill will be tabled, but I would like to inform you that more than 100 amendments, very concrete, with the indicated source of funding to socialise the budget you have submitted, will be presented at the meeting of the finance committee on 30 January and later at the plenary session of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski will now speak on behalf of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Representatives of the Government! This government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020 is closely linked to the government draft budget law for that year, previously presented. The proposed solutions are intended not only to reduce some of the State budget expenditure, but also to shift it to different types of funds, so beyond budget expenditure. There is no time to discuss all the changes that can mostly be called a stretching or even a combination in the area of finance, which raises a lot of substantive doubts. And so it is proposed that post-graduate traineeships, specialized trainings for doctors, dentists, nurses should be financed from the Labour Fund instead of from the state budget. Secondly, the base of the write-down on the labour benefit fund at the level of 2018 for the various occupational and social groups is frozen. The write-downs to the bounty fund in the voivodeships' budgets and the Minister responsible for Security shall also be frozen. Education and upbringing, of course, is about the teacher's prize fund. It is possible to transfer treasury securities to finance the "Initiation of Excellence" programme - research university. This way of financing universities raises reflection. What's that supposed to do? After all, it is probably about reducing budget expenditure, and it is a large amount, because 1.13 billion PLN. Of course, this will result in an increase in public debt, which must be repaid in the future. Finally, is it appropriate to fund the funds of the victim's aid fund and the Vocational Activation Fund for the portion of expenditure convicted under the Prison Service modernisation programme? Finally, the problem related to the financing of the National Water Farm of Poland. It is powered by a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a loan from the Council of Europe Development Bank. This means that current activities in 2020 will largely be financed at the expense of the following years. This is quite an interesting form of financing budget expenditure, which is to transfer it to credit, which, as I said, will be paid back in the following years. In the case of agriculture, it is possible to transfer funds developed in the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury to finance the necessary insurance of agricultural crops and livestock. It is proposed that the restructuring agency's tasks in helping farmers affected by drought, hurricane or floods should be financed from another area, fortunately also from the agricultural area. It's a good thing that the money in this case stays in the sector, doesn't go beyond the sector, but finances a different area of activity. There are many such changes as regards the possibility of transfers, transfers of expenditure between parts of the budget and departments. They serve to balance the budget. Maybe it's understandable from a formal point of view, but if we look at it from a substantive point of view, it raises a lot of doubts. Since the Act is a complement to the basic law on the 2020 budget mentioned by me, its legal force is retroactive and its operation begins with the implementation of the budget, which is understandable from 1 January. There are many other entries in this law that raise doubts, reservations, e.g. the educational issues in question are too low in subsidies that do not cover teachers' salary increases and burden local governments with more than 40% on average. Teachers' salaries should be financed by the state budget. It is difficult to support such solutions in such a situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u18	Thank you very much. Janusz Korwin-Mikke and Mr Konrad Berkowicz will speak on behalf of the Confederation's Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation with specific provisions of the Budget Act thinks the same thing as the general provisions of the Budget Act, i.e. it refers negatively to this. However, after listening to the speeches of the representatives of the Left, e.g. A highly venerable Member of Trela, we feel that it could be even worse, which is a note of optimism. I wanted to make Mr Trela aware here, who said that if it is what it is, then without the help of the state and local authorities Polish education will fall at all. I wanted to make it clear to the highly venerable Member of Trela that there was a huge network of private schools that managed without the help of the state, and even with an obstacle from the state at that time, for the occupation, when the government did not help the local authorities. It was because Hitler's taxes were much lower and people could afford... Jesus, no. They were much lower. Mr President, there are limits. Shame on you. You're ashamed that you're harassing Poles more than... Hitler's gun? You are ashamed to harass Poles more than national socialism. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] They're still applauding... Shame on you. This is a disgrace! Shame! It is a disgrace that you impose higher taxes on Poles than Adolf Hitler. Shame! Member, please refer to the draft law. I'm sorry. In any case, my party does not allow the situation of comrade Janosik, who supposedly took the rich and gave them to the poor, which was not true, does not allow the situation where they are allowed to take one and give to the other, because if we start to take one and give to the other, then people will focus not on work, but on creating coalitions to take one and give to each other. And that's why we reject these kinds of solutions. In particular, we note that the budget does not indicate what will happen, for example. with expenditure on F-35 aircraft. Actually, it has not yet been decided because the Sejm has not approved it, and this expense is higher than the planned government deficit. So I wanted to point out that budget planning in this situation is risky. A colleague of Berkowicz will talk about other matters. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A Nobel Prize winner in the field of economics, Milton Friedman, once noticed that there were four ways to spend money. The first way is to spend your money on your own. This is an effective way, because this is our money, we've earned it hard, so we don't want to squander it and spend it sparingly. And we spend it on purpose, because we know our own needs best. The second way is when we spend someone's money on our own. This is a little worse because we know our needs well, so we spend on purpose, but we spend someone's money, so we spend on waste. For example, we're on a delegation, we got a company card, we're really hungry, so we're gonna eat, but we're gonna have a more expensive meal than usual. The third way to spend money is to spend our money on someone's needs. This is an inefficient way to spend money, because, yes, we try to spend it as efficiently as possible, but we never know anyone's needs well, e.g. the situation of buying a gift. I'm sure you were buying someone a present or getting a present. By buying, you were trying to get this gift hit because it's for a friend. However, often this gift is not hit. I'm sure you guys got a gift once that's lying out there somewhere. For example, Janusz Korwin-Mikke once received a necktie as a gift. This is, I think, a good example of this situation. And the fourth way to spend money: a situation where we spend not our money on someone else's needs. This is the worst way to spend money. And who spends money like that? Systemically, regardless of intentions, it is best to spend the money of politicians and officials in this way. They, even if they want to do well, are systematically spending money in the worst possible ways. This necessarily means that the money that will be spent in the state budget must be spent in the worst, inefficient way, so in large part it will be wasted. That is why the state budget must be as small as possible. The less money there is in the state budget, the less money will be wasted, the more money will be left in the pockets of Poles. That's why when we hear the government bragging that there's more money that the government has gained, the budget has gained some money... That's bad, because that means we've lost more of our wallets and more has gone to waste. And you should finally understand that. Poles have long understood this and in the tradition they create, it is visible. For example, weddings and weddings are economically important. As far as the young couple are concerned, it's important what kind of economic start she gets. There used to be gifts, but people quickly realized it was inefficient. Gifts are missing, they double, so now you give money in an envelope. Why? Because if we give a young couple money in an envelope, the young couple will spend their money on their needs, so they will spend it efficiently. [[Applause]] This tradition is already understood and it's time for the government to understand it. It is time for you to understand this country, to follow the wisdom of Poles and finally reduce the budget as much as possible, i.e. spent money only on the necessary things for a strong state: the military to protect our freedom from an outside aggressor, the police to defend public order, to chase the bad guys, to protect the environment, because the air is common, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Meanwhile, we have 19 ministries, several dozen companies of the Treasury, and we have an army of over a million officials. This is a huge waste to be done with as soon as possible. And that's what I wish all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u21	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. There are eight Members to ask questions. Would anyone else like to take the floor as a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. In the mode of correcting Mr Tomasz Trela.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, such precise information: Left is free, good, public education. A conspiracy? That's what you heard. But, Mr Birkenau, speaking today on the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, about Hitler in this House and in this Chamber is a shame and a disgrace to you and to this House. Comparing that Hitler was better than he is now is a shame and a disgrace to you and your constituents. [[Applause]] This is a disgrace to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u23	I now ask you to speak, to ask Mrs Barbara Nowacka's question. No? Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Act in Art. 6 and 7 refer to a write-down to a social fund of 0.6% as regards the pension supply of professional soldiers and their families, and 0,5% As far as the police, the State Fire Department and other services are concerned. I wanted to ask government representatives what caused this write-down difference, as far as the military is concerned - 0.6%. And as far as the police and other services are concerned, 0.5%. The second thing is the matter that Mr Tomasz Trela referred to. Namely, I would like to ask how the government estimates the cost of a reasonable increase for teachers, which is planned since 1 September this year. How much is in the budget bill, how much will it actually cost, and how much will the local governments have to add again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A year ago, as Mr Trela mentioned, 2 billion PLN had to be added to this project. What's it gonna be like this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u25	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You're masters of vocabulary. A balanced budget? You gotta be kidding me. Balanced only on paper. Taxes, taxes, fees, charges, excise duties, rackets, contributions. Let's call things by name. That's what you do. Sugar tax? The experience of many other countries shows that it does not translate into a reduction in sugar consumption. Danina for the monkeys? But they're already taxed once by permission to sell or excise. You're just introducing a new indirect tax. A racket for adverts of dietary supplements? They say it's on the NFZ. But your health expenditures refer to the forecast not from this year, but from two years ago. Social and health contributions for entrepreneurs? This year they've grown the most in 11 years. You guys are making a rude money heist. I have questions about that. What other taxes, contributions, fees, rackets and charges will you introduce? When will the expenditure on health of Poles refer to the real forecast (the bell) of the gross domestic product? What is your systemic policy to promote health and nutrition? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u27	The question will now be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. So the question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as far as the budget is concerned, it can be said that this project is a little bit of a virtual budget, because there are a lot of expenditure that is hidden, and this is all about borrowing between different state institutions. For example, the National Property Resources will have revenues from the Technical Supervision Authority. The question may arise as to what the Technical Supervision Authority has for the real estate stock. In this context, too, the question arises of how many apartments from this National Resource You plan to build real estate in 2020. The same is true when it comes to funding universities. Suddenly, we finance universities with securities. The question is whether we will also finance the municipalities and education with securities. Finally, the issue of funding 75+ medicines. There is no budget grant in this budget (the bell) because these funds appear in the National Health Fund. And the question is whether they're bigger than this year or smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u29	The question will now be asked by Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot understand such a compulsion of opposition to the sowing of defetism, criticism of everything and all, and above all, fearing in an unethical, unworthy way of our esteemed seniors. As far as the 75+ drug programme is concerned, the National Health Fund has been allocated PLN 2.7 billion in the around budget law, of which about 800 million were allocated to 75+ drugs, i.e. 100 million more than in the previous year. So everything's fully secured. Why are you scaring us, why are you so unworthy, unethically scaring our dear, esteemed seniors? Next: for emergency hospitals funds were increased by 80%, to PLN 1700 million. Innovative drugs, replacement of ambulances, have been purchased two helicopters, which can operate in very difficult weather conditions (the bell) and at night. These are very great achievements, of course we are constantly improving, but we must not cheat people in such an unethical, immoral and untruthful way primarily in terms of health care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u31	The question will now be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government has many ideas to lower taxes to introduce different social aid, and the Left always supports it. But we had an example, this is what Mr Tomaszewski said, last year's demonstrations or teacher strikes. Their wages have been raised or they have been offered an increase in salaries. What was the effect at the end? It's that local governments... The government raises, and local governments have to bear the consequences of implementing these ideas. Minister, here's the question: Isn't it possible to consult local governments? Do you also talk to local governments about their budgets? And if you're talking, why are you leading to this situation? If you have an idea for tax reduction, then also have an idea for how to compensate for (the bell) losses to local governments. You need to know what the consequences are. And one last thing, Mr. Marshal. At the very beginning of today's proceedings, I proposed to extend the agenda to include information on purchases of F-35. I don't know exactly why this purchase is meant to be. These are the huge billions of zlotys that we would have spent, although some of these funds, on the pensions that we are talking about here, on the Senior+. For people who are affected by fate, I am thinking of the disabled. I'm sure there's a lot of things we could do. And the F-35s are mostly assault planes. Who are we going to attack? Why do we need all these planes and that much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u33	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u34	Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that the Left Member has defended Hitler's villain against criticism from the Parliamentary Speaker, claiming that he should not be spoken of. It means to be criticized also on that day, even when it turns out that in some cases the ideas of the Left are even worse than the ideas of Hitler's villains, that is, in tax matters. However, I wanted to point out that the Centre im. Adam Smith calculates a day that's called a tax freedom day. This is the day we stop working just to pay taxes, assuming we give all the money to the state, and we start working for ourselves. In 2019 it was July 8th. This means that Poles work for more than half of their lives, get up in the morning to work only to pay the country to pay taxes. I have a question for the government: Is he finally going to do something to make Poles stop being economic slaves of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u35	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u36	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Over PLN 40 billion is fixed expenditure, which will be repeated every year, but this year they are covered only by one-off revenues which will not be repeated in the future. Transformation fee related to the transfer of funds from OFE to IKE - PLN 17 billion, sales of frequencies for the fifth generation Internet - PLN 5 billion, CO2 emissions permits
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u37	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of Members who enlisted to ask questions has been exhausted. And the answer to the questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Shortly, because, in fact, as part of his question, Mr Hoc responded to most of the issues related to expenditures and these doubts about the resources of the National Health Fund budget, but perhaps in order to clarify it actually. The years 2017, 2018, 2019 are the years in which the state budget has sent significant resources to the National Health Fund. He directed them in the form of grants and, in fact, in this amount for the first time. The measures in 2017 mainly contributed to the repayment of over-executions. Overwork that hospitals have been generating for many years. Even earlier as a representative of one of the hospitals, I can confirm that these over-executions concerned the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 and probably also 2016, so they were not just overexecutions of one year. Once again, about the charges... There is doubt as to how we count them, what GDP, so let's look at how they grow. If we return again to 2015 at least, then the health expenditure planned for 2015, it was 74 billion, we have 107 billion for 2020, and I am convinced that these expenditures will be significantly higher. Probably more than 110 billion, because the grant that the state budget has just sent to the National Health Fund, including those medicines that were mentioned in the speech, for the 'Lekki 75+', that is, taking into account the 2.7 billion, is already over 110 billion. These are the growths previously unprecedented, the growths of more than 10% annually, growth significantly exceeding the pace of development of the Republic of Poland. As far as the "Lekki 75+" issue is concerned, the guarantee that these medicines will continue to be free is absolutely maintained. The envelope of PLN 836 million was excluded from the State budget, addressed to the National Health Fund, but the National Health Fund also received a grant from the budget of PLN 2.7 billion, i.e. many times exceeding what is spent on Leki 75+. So this amount of PLN 836 million for medicines for seniors is sustained. The National Health Fund plan - of course you were right - today this amount is not covered, but this plan was prepared much earlier than the budget law and the around budget law. This plan will simply be adjusted by this amount, and the source of funding will be this record grant of PLN 2.7 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u39	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Robert Nowicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Dariusz Wieczork's questions, I would like to remind you that the National Property Resources is obliged as a state-owned legal person to qualify for housing real estate of the State Treasury previously developed by the elderly, the National Agricultural Support Centre, the Military Property Agency and the State Treasury company. As parliamentarians know well, the National Property Resources have faced a difficult task of identifying more than 0.5 million parcels distributed across the country, of which more than 500 with the largest housing potential have been selected, 126 of which, after analysis, have a potential of 67 000. apartments. I would like to remind you that under the National Housing Programme in the first and second pillars, this is over 7 000. the premises dedicated, which is 7,000. seats for 7,000. families. It is not that this program is a failure, as the opposition tries to call it. This is a stage in the investment process that is actually in the operational phase. This is where we look at real needs. And not as it was under the Civic Platform when artificially pumped and artificially co-financed either a contribution or interest, which meant that you were either raising this capacity for a while or raising your own contribution, which was pumping prices on the market. This programme really shows how society can be supported in gaining its home, which is undoubtedly, and should be, our common issue, so that society can be brought into a state of basic well-being, such as housing and having a safe place for future generations. With regard to the issue of funding from the revenue of the Technical Supervision Authority, this is an example, honourable parliamentarians, of the fact that we are responsible in no sovereign debt. The revenue of the Technical Supervision Office allows temporarily and temporarily to support the National Property Resources, which, as I will remind you, has been financed by itself since this year. This is proof and evidence that we do not owe you that we are paying attention to the fact that the entire ecosystem of all individuals and all bodies that belong to the wider public administration will allow efficient management. And this is due to the duty of the State, in the context of public tasks, to pursue the policy that I have just mentioned. Finally, I would like to say one more thing so that we can look at the activities of the National Property Resource, which has become a very difficult task and which performs its tasks, its work reliably and responsibly. Until 31 December last year, the following studies and studies were commissioned: 46 legal expertise on selected properties and more than 190 geotechnical and sosoological expertise, dendrological expertise. Ladies and gentlemen, investments and construction are linked to a series of preparations. The National Property Resource is ready for this, we're ready to move on with the field. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u41	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Robaczyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will also complete the question-answer package.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Most of them were rather comments, not questions. The specific question raised was why there was a difference in the write-off to the social fund in terms of soldiers and other servants. The Around Budget Act changes only the basis, i.e. the reference, i.e. the year from which the basis of the write-off is counted, whereas the percentages themselves are set out in the various laws. It's been like this all along, and we're not changing it. The Act on Retirement Provision for Professional Soldiers and their Families indicates that a write-off of 0.6% is created measures planned and, in turn, in the Act on pension provision of police officers, security agencies, etc. it is indicated that a write-off of 0,5% is created measures. The question that arises, or the comment that often appears on the occasion of the Budget Act, the Around Budget Act, concerns the issue of subsidies and the financing of local governments. I have already said this several times on various occasions, also at committee meetings. And we also asked directly whether we were working with local governments. I said yes, we're working together. During the work of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, we agreed that it is necessary to look globally not only at educational subsidies but also at the income of local government units, because the law on the income of local government units is already quite elegant, if one can say so, and I do not really agree to the current conditions. And here we agreed, as part of the work of the committee together with the local government, that a special team of self-governments and government parties will be set up, which will work out the appropriate changes. These are not changes that can be introduced ad hoc, but we will certainly work on it, because it certainly requires changes. And the last short line. This is where the charge came in. or false data were provided on this symbolic date of tax freedom. This is not July 8th, but June 8th in 2019, i.e. 2 days later than in 2018, when it fell on June 6, and when it was the earliest we had this day since the time from which it was even established, so here we have it only 2 days later. He's been oscillating between June 6th and June 9th in the last 3 years. So this isn't July, this is June 8th. As I say, there is one of the earliest dates since this indicator or this symbolic day is set at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u43	Thank you very much. The rapporteurs of Henryk Kowalczyk cannot see. Then I will close the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit an additional report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (prints No 158, 158-A and 192). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I wanted to present a report on the work that was carried out yesterday, 22 January, on a bill that was sent by the High House to committee. This law is a specific law, it covers a lot of other laws, several dozens of which, as a result of the proposals adopted, change the provisions. As we have said at this meeting, the main axis is three parts: the creation of a new division called state assets, the second: climate, and some changes to the promotion that is regulated here by transferring competence to the foreign minister's jurisdiction. During the work that was carried out yesterday, during this meeting, the committee examined this parliamentary project additionally by the applicants, supplemented by amendments, which were quite large. The Commission, working almost 6 hours, prepared a position on the materials contained in Seym Papers 158 and 158-A and on the amendments which were consequently adopted. The draft was fully agreed with the Deputy Head of the Prime Minister's Office, KPRM's co-workers, Vice-Ministers for Climate Affairs and State Assets, as well as their co-workers. I would like to point out here and stress that there was also very good cooperation with the Legislative Office and that there was very substantive work at the meeting of this committee. As I said, there have been quite a number of amendments tabled by the applicants. Yesterday I also thanked the chairman of the committee for the substantive and efficient conduct of this debate, this discussion. The conversation was very substantive and very specific. Some of the members of the committee drew attention to the increase in the number of members of the supervisory boards, which is the consequence of a number of changed actions. But according to our intentions, this was not about remodeling everything that has so far been working, but about adding to this, as a result of these works and these statutory changes, the representatives of the new departments that are created through this, these people. There wasn't an assumption here to reconstruct everything. Maybe someday, in the future, this reflection and the comments of the applicants will be accepted. The Commission, after a thorough analysis of many aspects concerning difficult, please, states, because, as I said, they cover very many different spheres, different areas, also workers' matters, and also refer to the dates of entry into force - this is not a simple matter - as I stress, after very good cooperation, the substantive discussion, very professional conduct of the meeting by your President has completed its work. In the vote on the draft law, 14 votes were in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u45	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that it would listen to 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the agenda item. That's how it went down. Then I'll open the discussion. Please speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Mr Zdzisław Sipiera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As initiators of this change that we made in the Sejm, we wanted to propose that it be adopted in such a procedure. Of course, it does not violate any legal provisions. There were voices, questions why this isn't a government agenda, why this isn't done by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress very clearly: the cooperation of the parliamentary majority, which is created by the Law and Justice, with the government, is that, so to speak, daily, full and there is no problem here as to this formal dimension. On the other hand, it is another aspect - the elections were not so long ago, and the fact is that, on the basis of the conclusions drawn from the previous term, the Prime Minister and the Government have proposed new changes which we are proposing to the High House. That is what we have done in this proposal for changes to many, many laws. As we have said, it is crucial to carry out one fundamental issue - we are here to massage in one hand, of course under the control of the Prime Minister and the Government, but in one hand, responsibility for the management of the state's property. All the tests so far ended with something working better, something working worse. Today, after these experiences, we believe that this is not just a matter of governance itself, that someone should be responsible for a given sphere, a given company of the Treasury. It is also a question of responsibility for the increase in the assets of such companies - not only that they operate, but that they bring tangible benefits to the Treasury, Poland and our citizens. We have shown that during the difficult period that came in the previous term, we are able to carry out this projection. These were not successful actions, most companies worked very well, but that does not mean that they were all working well. And for that reason, since there is a question of whether one can do otherwise, one can do otherwise. It is precisely in this dimension of this aspect of our proposals that we introduce comprehensive changes regarding the state assets that will be allocated to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government, and this is a very high rank. It is about various aspects of overall responsibility not only for property itself, but also for employees, for decisions concerning e.g. the liquidation of public entities, which has not been so far, because they were assigned to various ministers. Therefore, among others. This case also has a dimension of protecting the interests of workers. What deserves attention and emphasis, please, is also climate change. There were also such questions on the committee, and Members asked why to share it. It is also a question of a certain approach to a case that involves our responsibilities for EU decisions. Each of us knows perfectly well whether a Member or someone who is active in various government or other public, local, that this subject, this matter, cannot be put aside at the moment. Issues that are so important for local authorities, issues related to exhaust emissions, problems related to financial expenditures, changes in heating sources require comprehensive actions, which must also be very closely combined in one place. Hence the importance of this subject, the decision of this type to separate this department of administration and create such an area specifically attributed to climate protection, although there are several threads in other departments. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we also propose a very important thing in this law - the competent minister for matters of climate or state assets may, to some extent legally assigned, delegate certain powers to others who can do so within a certain period of time. The point is that there should not be a moment at which there is a need for a statutory amendment in relation to the activities carried out in this area. Finally, the third change we have been talking about is smaller, but also very important. We have in this project a proposal to clarify a number of issues which concern the provisions of other laws, one of the first is probably the law of 1959, and many, many others, and order matters concerning the functioning of the whole sphere, the department of the state economy. We believe that in this respect, if this is the will of the Sejm, the will to adopt the law, we are moving forward on increasing the management of property, we point to the importance of climate issues, as well as issues of promotion of Poland and promotion of issues which concern the Polish state of affairs, in a specific record relating to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On behalf of the Law and Justice, Mr. Marshal, at this reading, I still wish to make amendments to you, which I declare on behalf of the President of the Law and Justice Club. They are also a tribute to earlier work - Mr President nods his head - the difficult role of President yesterday, things that have yet to be noticed. These three amendments are on the hands of the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. The Civic Coalition will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz and Mr Michał Grammar later.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to repeat my allegations and arguments at first reading here, but unfortunately neither of these doubts nor any of these questions received an appropriate response at the committee meeting. For this I would like to congratulate the authors, supposedly or really, no longer come to this legislative bubble, to which amendments to the amendments and to the self-corrections are made, as we can see, constantly. But this complacency is unfortunately inversely proportional to the sense of responsibility for our country. However, the nerve of some government representatives, presented at the committee meeting, is unfortunately adequate to their relationship with the law, not to mention justice. So we have the most frequently repeated term for this law: distribution of spoils. And then there's the prime minister's reiterating responsibility for the government. As a result, we have divisions: climate - de facto without climate policy, environment - without specific protection, but state assets - like Sesam with fabulous treasures and Minister Sasin as a fairytale Alibaba handing out gifts around coalitionists, non-coalitionists, at their discretion. It's just a pity that the robbers aren't 40, but hundreds, because there are over a few hundred companies with supervisory boards and boards. [[Applause]] But how it will burden Poles will be told by a fellow Member of the Grammar Group. But apart from incompetence, irresponsibleness, byzantium of power, the project exposes another feature of the ruling formation - greed. The Senate, under the cover of the Law on Departments, is the traditional prerogative of the Upper House, which is cooperation with Polonia, and in fact the money for this purpose goes to the Prime Minister's office. Another feature is the obsessive ideology of equality. Contrary to the rules, by broadening the scope of the submission, you are demoting the representative of the government for: equal treatment with the family ministry. Do you think that there are no inequalities and exclusions outside your family? High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, we reiterate our call to the Prime Minister for courage, taking responsibility and submitting his own draft amendments to the Law on Departments. Therefore, we again apply for rejection of the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Let me start by quoting: I've had more than 20 years of experience in managing large organizations. And it's not like the more people, the more directors, the better the job. Sometimes the effect is the opposite: where the cook six There's nothing to eat there. Yes, you will recognize well, these are the words of your boss, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. And yesterday, during several hours of work by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we learned the true, personal or even HR face of the law on government departments. The composition of the government is close to record, your 2018 record. Today it is 111 people - ministers, vice-ministers. But that's not all. In the supervisory boards of 14 Polish special economic zones there will be dozens of positions, of course to improve the quality of control over state assets. The supervisory boards of the Polish Post, BGK, the Military Property Agency will grow by several more places. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be able to boast a 14-person supervisory board. By comparison, the Dutch ING has 8 people in this body and, it seems, does not complain about the quality of corporate governance. Development Cooperation Programme Councils, Łukasiewicz Research Network, National Centre for Research and Development, etc. will grow, with each subsequent article of the Act, with each subsequent amendment. And the promise was different: we will try to reduce red tape at all levels. And where are your humility and moderation? Where is the thin and economical structure? This is, of course, a rhetorical question. And the motherland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u51	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Wiesław Szczepański will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I have the honour to present our position on the draft parliamentary bill amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and certain other laws, contained in print No 158 and No 158-A, and the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in print No 192. Although from November to today we have a new government, new ministries: climate, state assets, European Union affairs, in the freezer awaits the Ministry of the Environment, there was no proper law regulating their competence. The project is parliamentary, not government. It seems that there was no agreement in the resorts themselves on the division of competences between them. Mr Michał Woś participated in the work of the future Minister of the Environment, although as we learned yesterday, the project was supposedly consulted with the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The bill submitted to the High House in prints 158 and 158-A was not complete, and I will say that at times it was chaotic. This is evidenced by the number of amendments tabled yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and by the amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau. Today we know that applicants are making further amendments. The project has changed after nearly 6 hours of sitting, I can say, in 1/3, although our negative attitude towards this project has not changed much about the things I said yesterday. There are others. We continue to claim, and this is apparent from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office of 16 January, that the applicants did not refer to the anticipated financial consequences of this law. The justification for the project does not correspond to the provisions of Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, there is no provision for drafts of various types of regulations and regulations. Yesterday we learned that they would be, but we heard that they could be in a year, two, because the ministries are not prepared, nor the prime minister, to issue these regulations. The proposed bill assumes the creation of a government administration department: climate. Part of the scope of the cases covered by this section is a repetition of the scope of the cases covered by the heading: the environment. It is still not clear from the basis to what extent the issues of environmental protection and environmental development and the rational use of its resources will fall within the competence of the relevant ministers. Yesterday it was tried to save by presenting a specific amendment, but I think it didn't quite work out. Establishment of a government department: State assets means restoring the normative content of the former department: the Treasury. This name is associated with the current name of the Ministry of State Assets, which includes organisational cells that handle matters from departments: energy and the economy of fossil deposits. It is about supervision of the State Treasury, supervision of more than 250 different types of entities, where the Minister responsible for asset matters will first most likely have shares in companies, supervisory boards, and then, I suspect, he will also want to place his people on the boards of these companies. This is - as I say, as my previous speakers said - not creating a cheap state, and building a powerful resort, one can say, byzantium with huge funds, because the Ministry, as a result of the creation of this resort, receives additional places, as I said, in supervisory boards of companies, foundations, agencies, in 11 economic zones, Mr. And I don't think it's in 14 and, from what I've calculated, 11 of them have a majority share of the State Treasury. There is also Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It is about dozens of places for well-paid people, of course, and at the same time those costs, as we heard yesterday, will be borne not by taxpayers, but by companies. But then, you know, maybe we'll pay in the form of a raised service price. The Minister of Assets also takes over full power in the Board of Companies with the State Treasury, because the Act shows that the entire 9-person council is cancelled and a new one is appointed: 50% - Minister for Assets, 50% - Prime Minister. The project also envisages the creation of a new ministry related to our participation in the European Union, but, as I said yesterday, I do not fully know why matters related to information and education are under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask you again: Why will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs promote the Minister associated with the European Union? Yesterday we heard that there was another new amendment, which I believe goes beyond the scope of this law, which refers to the fact that in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, let's say, the promotion and matters of Polonia, apart from the Senate, should also be dealt with by the Prime Minister through his minister. I understand you don't like your marshal, you don't like the Senate, and the minister is coming today, and some of the money that is in the Senate is going to be handed over to this minister. I just don't know how the Senate and the Minister will now agree on this policy for Poles and its funding, how they will simply exchange information between themselves and who is to lead the right policy. Mr. Marshal! This bill hasn't changed our approach. The 7-day vacathio legis proposed in this act is too short for us. We believe that it should be 14 days for legislative purposes, which would not simply change the functioning of this law at all. We will vote against this law at third reading, but for the sake of legislative correctness we wanted to make two amendments: the first - repealing Article. 37, i.e. the distribution of funds between the Senate and the Prime Minister's office, and the second - extending the deadline for the entry of this law to 14 days. I am aware that they may not get the majority, and all indications are that we will vote against this law. Mr. Marshal! I'm putting these two amendments on your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, I would like to speak in 3 minutes, because I am announcing a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 24 hours 11 min 27]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 12 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Ms Urszula Nowogórska, who will make a statement on behalf of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u54	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Government representatives! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I have the honour to present the position of the club on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on government departments and certain other laws contained in Seym prints 158 and 158-A. The project, as we have noted, is of the nature of the parliamentary project, has been developed by the PiS Members. Too bad it's not a government project. Nevertheless, it introduces two new departments of government administration: state assets and climate. By analogy, amendments are also made to 92 other laws. After reading the draft law and during an in-depth and very substantive discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, there were many doubts and various questions, as well as doubts about the intentions of the applicants. The proposed amendments assume that a representative of the Ministry of State Assets will become a member of the Export Insurance Policy Committee. Such a change aims to concentrate and strengthen the oversight of this Ministry of Public Assets. A similar objective is to supplement the representative of the Ministry of Public Assets with the compositions of supervisory boards of management companies. It goes on, among other things. by special economic zones, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, where the number of members of the supervisory board increases from 12 to 14, Poczta Polska, where the number of members of the supervisory board changes from 5 to 9, the National Centre for Research and Development, where the board expands to 11 representatives of government administration, the Development Cooperation Programme Board, which extends from 23 to 25 members, and in Article. 78 of the draft law in respect of the Act of 10 July 2015 on the Military Property Agency in Article. 19 increases the supervisory board from 6 to 7 members. When analysing these changes in companies, we need to consider whether there are other possibilities to increase supervision of these companies, without the need to increase the number of members on these boards. Unless it turns out that the increase in numbers is caused by bad supervision in these companies. Overall, the overall costs of the functioning of the State, which is hidden under the ownership control coat, are increasing. It may be that, after an analysis, it turned out that in 2019 the results of these companies were so satisfactory that an increase in the number of people on these boards could be regarded as a specific reward. Referral to the article. 83 Act on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies, in Art. 11 paragraph shall be deleted. 2, which refers to the obligation to publish information on higher than normative salaries. Here we put a big question mark and we're wondering what the real reason for this is. Another provision that raises a great deal of thought is that contained in Amendment 5, where in Article. 36a reads: The care of Polonia and Poles abroad (...) referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 28, held by the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers. We believe that this provision goes beyond the subject matter of the submission of the project. So another question arises as to whether these changes were previously consulted with the Senate or whether they were simply about taking funds and competences. And then the Senate would only play a symbolic role in these matters. Unless there are some arguments that no one has argued so far that the Senate has been wrong in this regard. It is also interesting that art. 36a paragraph. 2 does not specify exactly what kind of care the Minister is to take care of as referred to in paragraph. 1 and implement it in particular through cooperation with non-governmental organisations and entities listed in Article. 3 (1) (a) 3, by commissioning public tasks financed from part of the State budget. Another question arises from the analysis of the article. 103 of the bill. Our question is very profound and is deeply concerned: What will happen to civil servants and who are outside of it will move on to the new employer after the entry into force of this Act? We wonder if there will be a dispute between the Minister of Climate Affairs and the Minister of the Environment as a result of the separation of the new section of the climate, because the provisions of the bill indicate that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Climate Affairs to supervise, among others. President of the State Agency for Atomistics, Chief Environmental Inspector, Institute for Environmental Protection - State Research Institute, Institute for the Ecology of Industrial Areas, as well as the activities of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, as well as of the Regional Environmental Protection and Water Management Funds. The Coalition Club Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 obviously wants efficient administration and an effective state, but we are against the introduction of chaos and legislative dispersal. We don't like the law that hides hidden, seemingly innocent-looking mechanisms. We also do not like writing the law without consultation, under the dictation of a particular interest group. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u55	Thank you very much, Member. Janusz Korwin-Mikke and Mr Konrad Berkowicz will speak on behalf of the Confederation's Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 1938, Colonel Matuszewski, Senator of the other part, said that if government agendas and government control were to develop this way, in 10 years Poland would be no different from the Soviet Union, and would crack. Ladies and gentlemen, the general bureaucracy will be said by colleague Berkowicz. I'll focus on one thing, that's the climate. Our poet Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński wrote before the war a poem: Why is snow so flat? I'm sure you'll find the voivode doing it, without the voivodeship, the snow wouldn't be so nice. The government seems to think that if there was no Climate Ministry, there wouldn't be any climate at all and there would be a lot of misery. I wanted to remind you that this year in June and the first half of July it was terribly cold by the sea, people lost huge money, people canceled their vacations. If the Ministry of Climate existed, I understand that the Minister would be standing here, right here, explaining why it's so cold. It's so cold because we spent a lot of money fighting global warming. And that's why it's so cold, isn't it? [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, everyone understands that this is humorous and that action in the fight against global warming has no impact on global warming or cooling. At the moment, the thesis among scientists is that we are at risk of global cooling, so we will have to spend another few trillion to fight global cooling, which is much more dangerous than warming. I wanted to remind the Members of the Left... I remember when I was in the Seym, there were other locals explaining that in winter, a lot of people froze in the streets. Because there's global warming, people don't freeze on the streets. As a result, the Left should be very happy that there is global warming because people do not freeze. Global warming brings huge profits for our economy, e.g. Construction workers operate throughout the winter, roadways operate. If it wasn't, it'd be a slow job for three months and there'd be broken production cycles. We don't know how long global warming will last. They say it's almost over. No one can predict that. If scientists can't predict the weather three days ahead, it's hard for them to predict 200 years ahead, isn't it? But if the most likely predictions come true, it'll all be over soon and global cold will begin. And if it continues, it is very beneficial for the world economy and for the economy of the country. Anyway, I wanted to remind everyone that there is a tragic phenomenon: the Earth is slowing down its rotation. Every 5,000. The Earth's rotation around the Sun is slowed down by 0.5 s years. It's about time we put this thing in order and set up a ministry to control the movement of the Earth, because this slowdown can have tragic consequences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Korwin-Mikke would be the minister. Everybody can talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u57	I would like to publicly disagree with President Janusz Korwin-Mikke, who underestimated the genius of the Government of Law and Justice. I would like to point out that the climate minister will not have to explain that there is global cooling, as they will overdo the fight against global warming, because PiS has left the Ministry of the Environment in addition to the Ministry of Climate, which will fight global cooling at the same time, so that we will have a stable climate situation in Poland. The Minister hooked me up in the cockroaches and said I was wrong, saying in a previous statement that the Tax Freedom Day was July 8th. It's June 8th. I was actually wrong. So I have good news: Poles are slaves to the financial state not for more than half of their lives, but for almost half of their lives. If progress in reducing this - I'm talking about Tax Freedom Day - is going to go as it has been for the last four years, then we'll be people almost free in 450 years. However, as I hear that today we are creating two ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Climate, and another Ministry, the Ministry of State Assets, to manage all the things that the State had previously created - later, I hope, there will be a ministry that will manage all these ministries - I am beginning to understand why PiS introduced in the last term at least 32 taxes, parataxes and tributes, which I will simply, if I allow time, exchange. The first is bank tax, credit tax. Trade tax, shopping. Gallery tax, ultimately on any commercial property, including buildings with rental apartments. Maintaining a higher VAT rate - 23%. Raising the VAT rate from 8% to 23% on selected products. Freezing of PIT thresholds. Introduction of solidarity tribute. I will remind you, by the way, that solidarity is helping one another, and forced solidarity is socialism. Elimination of linear PIT for entrepreneurs. Abolishing the limit on pension contributions. Reduction to zero of the amount free at high wages and deprivation of many tax groups of the ability to benefit from a 50% threshold for revenue costs. Taxation of financial contributions to companies and income from assets inherited or received as a donation that can no longer be depreciated. And a number of charges, e.g. transitional fee, so-called electricity charge, fuel emission fee, water charge, quality charge for vehicle technical examination - and additional charge if carried out after the deadline - bottom charge on the marina and recycling fee. Now a new increase in export charges for unsegregated garbage. PiS introduced at least 32 new taxes, parataxes and tributes. On this list there are no such charges, which are e.g. burdened surveyors, who at various places suddenly have to pay an additional 50 PLN for some discharge on the ground. They have to pay 30 PLN instead of 5 PLN for registering that they are going to measure a share. These things are thousands. They just cause, like I said, to pay all these taxes, we have to work half our lives just to do that. I hope that someday we will finally be free people who make money to spend this money on our own, and the government will only be there to protect our property and freedom with strong troops and police. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u58	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that eight Members have signed up to ask a question. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law only looks like an attempt to satisfy the appetite within the camp of Law and Justice, or perhaps even more widely - the camp of the United Right. Not only do you create one of the largest governments in the world, but you also increase your positions within the ministries. What's more, everything is done through the back door, through a parliamentary project, not a government project. It is a pity that such experiments are carried out in such important areas as the environment or the climate. Unless I missed something and the politicians of Law and Justice finally noticed that we are dealing with a climate disaster. One more thing, the question of care for Polish people and Poles abroad. How can these responsibilities be shared now that the President of the Council of Ministers is to deal with these matters? The money is just the same, and the managers are two. Will this amendment not be made at the expense of our fellow countrymen abroad? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u60	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Members! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! My question concerns the Military Property Agency. This is one of the most curial amendments that we managed to identify at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, because they increase the Member State's membership of the Supervisory Board of the Military Property Agency by one person, i.e. from six to seven persons. Today four people are appointed by the Ministry of National Defence, one by the Minister responsible for the Ministry of Public Finance and one for the Ministry responsible for internal affairs. The change consists in adding another person to the Supervisory Board, which will be represented by the Ministry of State Assets. My question is: Why don't you limit these four to three people designated by the Ministry of National Defence? I tried to find that out at the committee meeting, but I got a really tautological response. Namely: The Military Property Agency (The Bell) must have a better quality of supervision, because it has a lot of military property. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u62	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, you're not here! Mr President, do you know that you will be calling by law today, voting on this law, several dozen new positions on supervisory boards, companies of the Treasury? You're talking about a cheap country. Prime Minister! Do you know that you will no longer sign the statutes of any state bank because another minister will sign this on your behalf? Mr. Marshal Karczewski! Do you know - you were so excited 4 years ago - that the Senate adopted a resolution on the care of the Senate of Polonia abroad, that you would take care of it together with the President of the Council of Ministers, and that nothing in reference to pre-war traditions, when the Senate took care of Polonia and Poles abroad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u64	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u65	High Izbo! The environmental, climate and demographic challenges are among the most serious challenges facing Poland. According to specialists, in 50 years' time, we can e.g. lose 70% Tree stands, there may not be any water to sail. What are you doing? Well: air - the Ministry of Climate, nature, forests, underground - the Ministry of Environment, water - the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, drought - even this Ministry, although it is engaged in shipping, and the Ministry of Agriculture. By the kind God, who will answer, does it make sense to have great programs for acknowledgment in the situation of climate change? And who will answer, and please answer the question, who will decide if we will open (the bell) the Zel's discovery, because it is beginning to lack in the perspective of brown coal. And the question from yesterday is, how many vice-ministers do we finally have in the government? Who will answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u66	The question will now be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The first question I ask the government representative to answer unambiguously: Is it true that as a result of this law, we will grow about 20 profitable positions on supervisory boards? And if it's less, tell me how much and where. Secondly, the article is being amended. 53 Act on the preparation of the final tournament of the Euro 2012 European Football Championship. This law has been in operation since 2007, and you are now changing the State, after 13 years, to operate in a special purpose vehicle in the Supervisory Board a representative notified by the Minister responsible for public finances and a minister competent for development. Now the Minister of Sports comes in. I wanted to ask, what are the reasons for the fact that now comes the Minister of Sport, when there were two projects, according to (the bell) with the government's information, implemented within the Euro, one airport that will never be, and the other - a great energy network. What is caused by the presence of the Minister of Sport in such a special purpose company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u68	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a very detailed question about voivodship environmental funds. Because I will remind you that the Polish government, although these are the units of the voivodship authorities, has actually led to the fact that the authorities of these units, i.e. the supervisory boards and the presidents, are elected by the minister. Now you're going even further in all this. Well, the supervision of the activities and the national fund, and the voivodship funds is exercised by the minister, and in the case of the voivodship funds the voivodships operate. You enter a provision concerning the resolutions of the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds, that they must be handed over to the voivodship within 7 days of the date of their taking. Therefore, my question is: Is it even worth that these regional environmental funds function as units of the local government, since the local government and councillors have no influence on the way these funds operate (the bell)? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u70	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. We wanted to switch, but that's okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you what my predecessor asked me, why, instead of simply eliminating the voivodship funds and making them national funds, you're centralizing it. But in fact, the answer is in this bill. Because then there'd be less jobs. And so are the supervisory boards, the remuneration of the supervisory boards, the boards for their own and the exchange of staff. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will cause massive staff movement throughout Poland. On the one hand, we will have queues to the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin of the new adepts to the supervisory boards, to the boards, and then to the companies, because this law provides for their replacement, and on the other hand, in this act you will provide a cleansing in those offices which you reform (the bell) because there you will offer such changed working conditions that you will not accept them. This is a great revolution. What will the government do for six months? Yeah, with HR. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u72	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been in this room for a few years, but if I were one of the journalists or no matter who asked me and asked me to mention how many ministries we have, how many ministries in Poland in general, and to replace them, I would have huge problems with it. I assessed this law at first reading as a law that multiplys existence. Ministers, and it was supposed to be modest, said one of your authorities. Humility and moderation. And that's, that's what this modesty is all about. And now I have an idea. Well, take all the money from the Senate and you'll have peace, the Senate Marshal will not be able to travel abroad because he won't have anything to do with it, and then, if you happen to get back to the Senate, you'll move it, you'll do one more session of the Senate (the bell) and you'll be able to return, and you'll be able to continue to take care of Polonia and Poles abroad. Isn't it a shame that it's already in public? At least keep up appearances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u74	Thank you very much. The list of Members enrolled in the task of questions has been exhausted. You will answer the questions that you have asked, Minister Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u75	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to answer all the questions asked both in the debate... For Members. ...as well as the questioning part. Mrs Lenartowicz asked - and this question was actually going through the whole debate that we have been taking part in today - about the question that she felt was about taking away Senate's powers in the field of Polish and Polish policy abroad. Madam President, I repeat what I said yesterday in the committee: it is not the removal of powers; the powers of the Senate are preserved. Please read the transcript literally. I read with understanding, but I still have to write with understanding. They are, yes, extended to the President of the Council of Ministers. This is, of course, a certain sanctioning of the state of affairs that is currently taking place, a clarification of the rules that are now functioning under other laws. Nobody here has been trying to assassinate the Senate's powers and the Senate's work for years. And here I have it under the name of Mr Grammar, but actually it is. and the general question that goes through the whole debate. It's about the board of directors. I will now give the general answer to this question. It's about members of the collegial bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of this composition consists solely in the addition of representatives of these resorts, which are re-created, i.e. in fact a climate resort and a resort of state assets. This is what Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked about - how many positions this is. We didn't really count it, about a dozen or so, maybe 20... At the post office... Certainly more (Mounting in the O.R.), certainly not more. Well, I repeat, this is dictated by the rationalisation of the supervision of state property, which is dictated by the creation of new institutions, two new institutions: the Ministry of State Assets and the Ministry of Climate. Mr Szczepański asked a question about the absence of regulations. We explained this and explained it to the Sejm Chancellery and the committee meeting. The assumptions of these regulations, we have presented some assumptions. As far as deadlines are concerned, I repeat, it is unfortunately not... the time limit at this point is not possible to indicate, and therefore this unique provision on the flexible definition of this limit must be applied. Mr Szczepański also asked about the conflict, supposedly having a conflict of competence between the climate department and the environmental department. In our view, he does not appear, Mr President. Reading literally the descriptions of these sections, we are always dealing with environmental issues in the context of the climate, so this is the limit that we think is precisely separating both departments of government administration. Information matters related to the European Union, which remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - I have already explained this in committee. The aim is to ensure that Polish information policy abroad is integral, coherent. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has great experience in conducting this information policy and, according to the government, this impact should be preserved. With regard to vacathio legis and Mr Szczepański's view, for a short period of time, i.e. 7 days after yesterday's meeting, after discussions with the Legislative Office, because this discussion was also very substantive, which I would like to stress, we have decided to ask the applicants for an amendment on the extension of the deadline for informing foreign servants of the change in their situation to 14 days. This also consumes the attention of the Legislative Office and to some extent also consumes the reservations presented by Mr Szczepański. Mrs Nowogórska from the club PSL - Kukiz15 asked about supervisory boards. That's the answer I've already given. She also asked for a lack of consultation with the Senate. Madame, this bill will go to the Senate, it will be examined by the Senate. There will be a Senate resolution on it, perhaps negative, of course that cannot be ruled out. Mrs Nowogórska also asked about the situation of workers transferred outside the civil service. Madam President, this is a very narrow category, which mainly concerns workers employed in political offices. It could be literally a few people. Thank you very much for caring about these people, but I think they can handle this situation. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke drew attention to the scope of the Ministry of Climate in an archaic speech. I would just like to say that this is not the Ministry of Climate Change or Climate Impact. This is the Ministry, as you will read in the provisions of the Act, dealing with a number of issues arising from climate policy. It doesn't affect the climate. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, besides giving another lecture on economic philosophy, asked me why there was no ministry of supervision of ministries. Mr President, I would like to inform you that such an institution has existed for many, many years. Now it's called the Office of the Prime Minister, before it was called the Office of the Council of Ministers. You still have to control her. We're moving on to the question section. Mrs Paulina Matysiak asked about the Senate. That's the answer I've already given. Mr Grammar from the Civic Coalition club asked about the Supervisory Board of the Military Property Agency. This is not a tautology, because I pointed out many properties of the State Treasury, which are located on the Management Board of the Military Property Agency. For this reason, the presence on the supervisory board of a representative of the Ministry of State Assets is justified. Mr Szopiński's question was, how many of these positions are there? I stress that there are not a dozen, there are dozens of them, about 20. In this number, these additions to the composition of supervisory boards are closed. Mr Wilczyński from the Civic Coalition asked about the decisions taken in the Zel's discovery. Nothing's gonna change around here. As far as I know, it's the Ministry of Energy. There, these decisions will be made in the same way. The Ministry of Energy? Do we have a ministry like this? We don't have one. I might be wrong, then. Maybe we should make a deal, Mr. President, that this question... It's about breaking up the neighborhood of Poland when it comes to the environment. I will give you an answer in writing on this. I'm not gonna be here with you... The Minister doesn't know what ministries we have. Minister, I'm asking you to answer questions that have been asked in normal mode and not discuss with the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr Marshal, when I am interrupted by Members of the House, you do not admonish them. I didn't even have time to refer to what I was accused of. But it was a mistake. I'm going back to the questions. Mr. Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked for his position. That's what I've been talking about. He also asked why a representative of the Ministry of Sport is being introduced to the supervisory boards of Euro 2012 special purpose companies. Why? This is not the introduction of a new representative, a new entity, but the conversion of the Ministry of Regional Development to the representative of the Ministry of Sport, as these companies are engaged in the investment, they are still engaged in the investment concerning the stadium. We have here the last two questions by Mr Evening and Mrs Lenartowicz. From the new things they concern voivodship environmental funds. I confirm that the intention of the applicants agreed with the government is to increase, strengthen the supervision of government entities over these institutions. It is a fundamental thing, an ideal thing. We're not going to back out of this. Mr Aichler of the Left asked about the law, about the Senate. I have already answered these questions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, and please accept the explanation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. There's still a corrigendum. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz and Mr Jan Szopiński. And Richard Wilczynski. And Richard Wilczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u77	In correction mode, Mr. Marshal. Minister! You have accused me or recommended reading with understanding, so I want to tell you that I have read with understanding. You yourself answered my question at the committee meeting that this will have money, we are talking about Polonia, who will be included in the budget bill. And this is yours. knowledge of state governance. There's this Latin paraemia: si tacuisses, philosophus mansisses - if you were silent, you could be a philosopher. And I think you should take it to heart. It turned out the same way that you didn't know this bill because you're talking about the Ministry of Energy. Since when do we have the Ministry of Energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u78	Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u79	Minister! I spoke of dozens of new positions on the supervisory boards of the Treasury companies. You're talking about twenty-six. But it's a dozen. However, to cut through this dispute, I would like to say that I understand that it was difficult matter, it was difficult to count from yesterday to today, exactly how many new positions there are. About an hour. We have a committee meeting on 14th. I would ask the Minister to prepare you for it and count exactly how many of these positions there are. In my opinion, there are dozens of new posts on supervisory boards, and you spoke about Poland, which is a Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u80	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u81	Thank you very much. I think that the issues of making such a strategic decision, the opening of the Zel's discovery, show how dramatically we have dissipated competence. The essence of my question - this should be the subject of our common public concern - are issues of environmental management, more broadly, management of sustainable development of Poland. These competences are dramatically broken down into so many resorts that no one will ever see it again. That's the essence of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u82	Thank you very much. The Minister will also speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, As far as the Minister of Energy is concerned, I just wanted to correct - I meant the energy department, which is still functioning and maintaining its competence. As regards the question that Mr Szopiński repeated, I would like to say that I have instructed our employees to make concrete calculations on how long the supervisory boards will be supplemented. On time. 14 we will probably have precise information, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. I therefore close the discussion. At the time of the second reading, amendments were submitted to the proposed amendment act. I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 (Print No 81) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (Print No 123). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Iwona Michalek, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy requires the provision of Article to draw up an annual report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Prevention Programme. The 11th Against Domestic Violence Act, according to which the Council of Ministers transmits the report to the Sejm and the Senate by 30 September each year. That's what happened. This duty has been fulfilled. In September last year, Members received a document summing up actions related to the area of anti-violence in 2018 for evaluation and analysis. The report contains a description of the activities carried out by the departments, local authorities and NGOs, data on those supported and anti-violence infrastructure, and a description of good practices, i.e. innovative activities carried out by local authorities. This is therefore a reflection of what was happening in the area of anti-violence in 2018. The document presented compares the measures taken over the period 2014/2018 to capture certain trends and draw conclusions for further action. As we have done every year in the report, we have re-created actions on the four most important areas. The first area includes preventive measures, the second area is support for people who experience family violence, the third is ways of influencing people who use family violence and the fourth is professionalisation of services. One of the most important actions in each area is the implementation of a nationwide social campaign for the benefit of the elderly - this is very important in the context of the ageing population - concerning limited knowledge about support and limited access to it for older people, which is also due to their age, health status, etc., as well as the organisation of a nationwide conference on the security of older people. Prophylaxis, intervention, aid - that was the title - for the anti-violence services in the family. During this reporting period no studies have been carried out on the prevention of domestic violence, as the timetable of the national programme did not foresee them in 2018. The tests shall be carried out every 2 years. With regard to the area on how to help those affected by family violence, it is worth paying attention to some actions. It's about running specialist support centres for victims of domestic violence. Currently there are 36 centres in the country, including one new one - established in 2018 in Kraków. This form of support was used by 6792 people in 2018. As the statistics show, this number has decreased slightly over the years. However, specialist support centres are not the only places where victims of violence in the family can find shelter and support. The other facilities are emergency intervention centers or other centres... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Can I ask you to continue your phone calls outside the Seym Room? Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Iwona Michalek: ...or other support centres operating in the country as part of their own tasks of municipalities and powiats. In 2018, the funding from the state budget for the operation of specialised support centres for victims of domestic violence amounts to 13,824,000. for current maintenance and 200,000. a newly created center in Krakow. Next steps in the area of support for victims of violence are the implementation of the Blue Card procedure, which is a tool used for victims and perpetrators in their immediate environment, i.e. in the municipality. We consider the aid under the procedure to be the most optimal and effective action for children and adult victims from their places of residence. And so on. The number of Blue Cards in 2014 is 102 811, and in 2018 93 311 Blue Cards were established, so there is a slight decrease in their number. This is probably due to a greater awareness of society and the ability to distinguish between family conflict and violence. Nevertheless, the highest number of procedures continue to be procedures initiated by the police, whose officials are most often confronted with violent incidents due to the intervention nature of their work. Here we must thank the police for their very good cooperation. The least of the procedures still initiates health and education. It is worth stopping for a moment with another tool to ensure security in violent situations, namely the collection of children under Article. 12a bill. Since 2015, the number of children received under this article has remained at a similar level, although a slight decrease is noticeable. In 2014 there were 1359 and in 20181130. Two actions should be mentioned within the area of impact on violent people. The first is to carry out corrective and educational activities towards the perpetrators. The financial resources for this purpose in 2018 are 4019 thousand. zł. A little over 8.5 thousand benefited from this form of impact in 2014. The perpetrators, on the other hand, in 2018 and 8700, so there is a slight increase. We see that there are changes when it comes to these numbers. The second action is psychological and therapeutic programs. The financial resources in 2018 are 846 thousand. zł. 1610 perpetrators took part in these programmes in 2014, 1283, i.e. a decrease in 2018. The last action described in the report is the professionalization of the services by allowing representatives of services to participate in training organised by the Marshals of the voivodships. The funding from the State budget in 2018 for this measure amounted to 800 000. zł. For comparison - in 2017 it was 480 thousand. PLN, and already for 2019 1,600 thousand were allocated. zł. From 2015 to 2017 there was a noticeable decrease in the number of participants in these trainings, while in 2018 there was a slight increase. As far as total funding is concerned, the state budget spends more and more money over the years on tasks based on the provisions of the National Family Violence Programme. And that needs to be made clear. For example, in 2014 it was 16 570 thousand and in 2018 - 20 229 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Government of the United Right, we note problems with family violence and make every effort to minimize this phenomenon. However, we are aware that, of course, there is still a great deal to be done. Therefore, in the National programme against violence in the family - and its change this year is necessary - we will try to introduce other, perhaps a little stronger records, e.g. on preventive measures to help families before violence or to increase the safety of violent people. We will try to continue to develop the influence on the perpetrators, because we are very much committed to ensuring that the family is properly served after the crisis in which it is placed. As we realise how difficult the work of family violence services is, we will try to strengthen the provisions of the programme on support and guidance related to the tasks being carried out, e.g. in the form of a supervision. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, the national anti-violence programme in the family is working. We increase the amount of resources, we change the program a little bit, because we just care about the family, we care about a safe, happy family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask Mrs Dominika Chorosińska to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I am pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, to present a report on the meeting during which a report on the implementation of the National Programme against Family Violence for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 was considered. This is print number 81. The Speaker of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration by the President of the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2019. Polish society attaches great importance to family values. The pursuit of strengthening the foundations of its functioning is a duty of the state, and at the same time an essential element of its development and success in social reforms. Reducing family violence is a process that requires time, cooperation between various state services, financial expenditures, as well as changes in public awareness. The programme's activities in 2018 focused on four key areas. The first - prevention and social education, the second - protection and assistance to those affected by violence in the family, the third - impact on those who abuse the family, the fourth - improving the competences of the services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. Area one - prevention and social education. As part of preventive measures, almost 800 cases of violence in the family were developed - especially at the level of municipalities and powiats. The voivodships also carried out their duty to monitor the problems by reporting annually on these issues. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy conducted a social campaign for the safety of older people, also organizing a national conference on this subject. Nearly 1 000 were also carried out. local social campaigns. Other ministries have also been involved in the implementation of preventive tasks, including: Ministry of Justice, mainly through an information campaign entitled A week of assistance to victims of crime, as well as through material and intangible assistance financed by the Justice Fund, and the Ministry of National Education through appropriate changes in the programme basis and strengthening educational and psychological and pedagogical impact. In 2018, these systemic actions were strengthened in the framework of the implementation of the Government's Safe + It is worth mentioning that the report presented to the committee contains examples of good practices against violence in the family, actions carried out in municipalities such as Długołęka - dolnośląskie, Parczew - lubelskie, Stepnica - Zachodniopomorskie and Libya - Lesser Poland. Since most of the anti-violence tasks in the family are carried out in local governments, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is carrying out a cover programme to support local self-government units in the creation of a system against violence in the family. In 2018, its budget amounted to PLN 3 million and was implemented in 93%. Numerous protective and educational programmes were implemented in institutions under the Ministry of National Education. They accounted for over 860 thousand. persons. Compared to the previous year, in 2018 the number of prevention programmes developed at district level increased, in particular as regards the promotion and implementation of correct educational methods for children in families at risk of domestic violence. In 2018, 315 programmes were implemented and a total of 58 816 people participated. At the level of the municipalities, according to the law, the actions of the national programme focused on developing a system against violence in the family, which consists of: "Programme against family violence and the protection of victims of family violence, guidance and intervention, providing people affected by violence in the family places in support centres and interdisciplinary teams. The number of municipal anti-violence programmes developed in the family and protection of victims of domestic violence amounted to 2344 in 2018, i.e. an increase compared to previous years. 313 programmes were developed at the level of powiats and 13 at the level of voivodship. Area two - protection and assistance to those affected by violence in the family. In 2018, the number of people affected by violence amounted to 224 251 people, according to the data report. A total of 152 952 persons were assisted in the form of guidance. In 2018, there was an expansion of the network and an extension of the offer of support facilities for people affected by violence in the family and providing assistance to them, including consultative centres, support centres, specialised support centres, homes for mothers with minors and pregnant women, crisis intervention centres. At this point, it is worth stressing the efforts made by the Ministry of Justice to develop aid infrastructure for victims of crime. In 2018, the budget for these tasks under the Justice Fund amounted to PLN 160 million. In 2018 the actions of the National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family continued. Area three - impact on those who use violence in the family. Corrective and educational and psychological therapist programmes are the main actions in this area. Action has also been taken to prevent the contact of family abusers with those affected by the violence through temporary arrests, prohibition of contact, supervision, and finally an order to leave the place of residence. The Ministry of Justice also monitored the case-law of the general courts in relation to family violence. The most common crimes in this area included abuse and criminal threats. Area 4 - improving the competences of services and representatives of actors in the field of anti-violence in the family. This action aims to increase the efficiency and availability of services provided. In 2018, training programmes covered around 60 thousand. persons, servants and organisations involved in the fight against violence in the family. Financing of the National Programme against Domestic Violence for the period 2014 to 2020 from 1 January to 31 December 2018 According to the 2018 Budget Act, the amount of 19 689 thousand was planned to carry out the tasks resulting from the Family Violence Act. PLN from over 90% of the voivodship budgets and less than 10% of the target reserves. Family violence, as shown by the report presented to the High House, is a complex and multidimensional phenomenon. Efforts to prevent it effectively require well-designed and skillful action on all the dimensions presented. The need for a comprehensive and coordinated policy in the area of prevention of violence, protection of victims and remedial action against perpetrators. The recommendations and recommendations are, first of all, monitoring of local authorities in the implementation of existing legislation; second, increasing the involvement of education and health representatives in the implementation of the "Blue Card" procedure; thirdly, developing support infrastructure for victims of violence in the family, in particular specialised support centres; fourthly, increasing the number of people using violence in the family and, fifthly, further development of interdisciplinary training for workers of institutions dealing with violence in the family. One of the key achievements of the programme, what has so far been achieved both at central and local level, is cooperation and shared responsibility for the implementation of anti-violence tasks in the family of all services involved in helping harmed persons. The Commission recommends that the Sejm adopt a report on printing No 81. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u88	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. So I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Mrs Beata Arrow, which will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the work on the report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Prevention Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018, contained in the Seym Paper No 81. In view of the objectives and areas of action contained in the National Programme against Family Violence, all levels of government and public administration are required to carry out tasks and take action to reduce this phenomenon in families. The analysis of the information presented in the report focused on four main areas: prevention and social education, protection and assistance to victims, the impact on perpetrators and the improvement of the competences of services and representatives carrying out counter-productive tasks. Family violence is a legal, moral, psychological and social problem. Violence often also affects the mental and emotional spheres, not just physical ones. It is experienced by both women and men, children and the elderly. Prevention, information activities and social campaigns increase public awareness of violence, and preventative measures increase knowledge about it, overthrow family violence and attempts to justify it, promote educational methods without violence, and effectively protect victims and help them. According to the report, the Ministry of National Education takes a number of actions that influence the formation of the right attitudes, develop the social competences of children and young people, develop attitudes of respect for others, and raise awareness of the causes and effects of violence in the family. One of the actions was the implementation of the "Safe+' programme, which supported the safety of learning conditions in schools, education and care, as well as raising awareness of the risks to digital security. Under the programme, actions have been taken to increase access for children and young people to psychological and pedagogical assistance. An important element of the implementation of the programme in 2018 was the actions for the safety of older people undertaken by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. As part of the social campaign, a TV spot was created to raise public awareness of the safety of older people, to raise awareness of the needs of this social group, but also to raise the awareness and awareness of seniors about their rights. Once again, victims of crime could receive free legal assistance thanks to the nationwide share of the crime victims, a week of assistance coordinated by the Ministry of Justice. A total of 946 social campaigns were carried out under the programme in 2018. The second area of the programme is to help those affected by family violence. The law on anti-violence in the family imposes an obligation on municipal and district governments to create systems to counter this phenomenon. These systems consist of both anti-violence in the family and the protection of victims of violence, guidance, intervention and the provision of places for those affected by violence in the family in support centres and the creation of interdisciplinary teams. In carrying out these tasks, county authorities in 2018 developed 330 anti-violence programmes in the family and protection of victims of violence. Over the past years, the number of institutions providing support, advice and assistance to people experienced with violence has increased significantly. In 2018, 57 of them were created, including five support centres, six houses for mothers with minors and 27 emergency intervention centres. In 2018, 220 crisis intervention centres were operating and more than 19 thousand benefited from them. persons. As part of the implementation of the programme of the Fund for the Victims and Post-Penitentiary Assistance - the Justice Fund for 2017 88 centres were set up for the victims. The purpose of these centres is to help victims of crime, regardless of their place of residence or nationality. On 24 October 2018, the Minister of Justice announced a new programme of assistance to victims of crime for the years 2019-2021. These measures provide the possibility to finance the costs of legal, psychiatric or psychological assistance, temporary accommodation or shelter, as well as the purchase of food, clothing and cleaning products. For many centres providing assistance and shelter to victims of domestic violence who have left their residence, this is the only way to finance the basic needs of these people. The impact on those who use violence is still a very important issue. One should also look at the perpetrator of violence as a person who is not able to cope with emotions or powerlessness, and often also with alcohol addiction. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you very much, Member. It is therefore important to develop and apply corrective and educational programmes aimed at stopping the perpetrator. Thank you, Commissioner, you have run out of time. Law and Justice recommends the adoption of a report on the implementation of the programme for 2018. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u90	Ms Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This report is quite extensive, with 189 pages. Unfortunately, I can say that the paper will accept everything. Well, you're bragging... It is a good thing that this is a report at all, because I would like to say first of all that the amendment you wanted to adopt in your 2018 project, which has seen the light of day, is that there should be no such annual report at all. Fortunately, you must submit such a report to the Sejm. Of course, thanks to the fact that this programme was adopted by the previous government in 2014. You are talking about different areas and actions in them. In short, I would like to address some of them. For example, you are bragging, and it is right that in 2018 there was a social campaign for the safety of older people. The problem lies in the cost of this social campaign, unfortunately, as we can read on the web page. 9: the amount of PLN 143 787 has been spent on the purchase of aerial time as part of the campaign, and this amount has just been spent. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Justice allocated over PLN 14 million to the advertising of its Justice Fund. That's the difference. That's another line. You say that in 2018 a new support centre was established in Krakow. Unfortunately, not even one new specialist support centre was created, because this facility had already functioned before. It was the centre of Caritasu, which in 2018 only changed its statute. Another question - Blue card. You say less procedures are being initiated. Question: "Isn't this why you are trying to change the mentality and awareness of Poles, turning them back to the previous widespread opinion that violence is simply something embarrassing and not necessarily something to talk about?" Ladies and gentlemen! Research. While research must be done every 2 years, the problem is that such comprehensive research was actually carried out in 2012 and 2015. In 2017, you did your research, but only related to support infrastructure. I hope that in 2019 these studies will at least have a wider scope than the previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the law you wanted to introduce was really scandalous not only because you wanted to avoid the annual discussion of violence in the plenary room in the Polish Parliament, but also because you wanted to introduce even prosecution of the perpetrator on request and with the consent of the victim, which is absolutely unacceptable in 2018. Enough of that, strategies, those in local governments, weren't supposed to be mandatory anymore. I don't know if you like what the local government is doing in Zakopane. Perhaps it is because the Prime Minister herself spoke of local government officials from Zakopane: for you are brave. It's a question of the Istanbul Convention. We had courage. We had the courage not only to adopt legislation, such as the Istanbul Convention, but also to take a number of actions on its canvas, such as. Prosecution of public rape. You are not implementing this convention. Not much, you still wanted to withdraw from this convention, and that is very disturbing. As far as the money you are talking about is concerned, the votes of the people who run the centres have also emerged at the committee meeting that you were talking about. It was these people who said that this money was small, actually with a 2010 perspective. Many people running these centers just want out of their lives because there's no money for it. We would very much like violence issues to be investigated over all divisions, so as to protect victims and punish perpetrators. In the manner in which you have prepared the report, we, as the Civic Coalition, will not accept it (the bell), will not vote for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u92	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 weeks ago, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy presented us with a report on the implementation of the National Programme against Family Violence for 2018. This report reveals an appalling picture. This is not just a concern for the weakest: children, women, the elderly, who are most often victims of violence. And there's someone to be afraid of, because the most careful data is about 0.25 million affected and threatened by domestic violence. Each year at the hands of husbands and partners, 0.5 thousand die in Poland. Women. After listening to this report, we are also concerned about the state of the state, which, as it is clear from the report, you do not consciously and cynically rule. We're dealing with a deliberate omission. A reasonable administrator must constantly think about what he is doing, why and why. He should constantly evaluate the effects of his actions and plan ahead of time how to measure them. It is vain to look for such reflection in the reporters, saying in quotes, the successes of your government in preventing and preventing violence in the family. As a citizen and a messenger, I see a disturbing dissonance. There is Dr Jekyll in the people of Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Ziobra, who swear that the priority of your government is to protect the weak, that abused women and children will not have to flee their own home in fear to protect themselves from unpunished perpetrators. There are even announcements to refer a novel to the Sejm developed by the Ministry of Justice, which, although not repairing the national anti-violence system in the family, is a small but important step in the right direction. But you regularly show us a different face, Mr. Hyde's face, when President Andrzej Duda openly recommends that the anti-violence convention simply not be followed, and the family resort tries to push the amendment of the anti-violence law in accordance with the principle: everyone can happen. PiS politicians in turn pilgrimage from one conservative editorial office to another, agitating against the anti-violence convention in the family, scaring the LGBT and gender ideology, and the Social Policy and Family Commission you direct throughout 2019 does not find time to read the report on the effects of anti-violence policy. Then what's it like with you, Prime Minister, Minister, President? The Left, on behalf of all victims of domestic violence, on behalf of all women and children who do not feel safe in their homes, demands a clear declaration as to whether you really intend to protect victims of violence or whether you will continue to torpedo the Istanbul Convention, the Blue Card programme, NGOs that have been carrying out well-evaluated for years by experts and effective projects to combat violence. Scandalous in our feelings is the logic that the extreme right in the Sejm and beyond wants to block the introduction of solutions that are necessary to effectively protect victims of violence in the family, prevent the formation and escalation of the family, just because it could be used by a parent or thrown out of a teenage gay or lesbian home. Unfortunately, lately, Mr Braun and Radio Maryja seem to be more motivating and directing your actions than the Prime Minister's declarations than the promises given to citizens or fundamental moral principles. We expect declarations, but also consequences in action. The year 2020 is the last year of the National Programme against Family Violence. In a year's time, you will be able to summarize and compile data from 16 years of action. As a Left, we call for this report to provide comprehensive information on the effects of the various activities of the Ministry, how they relate to the purpose of the programme and how it evaluates the effectiveness of specific actions carried out by both local authorities and central authorities. The Left is opposed to the current report of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on anti-violence in the family. We believe that it lacks key information, which makes it impossible to actually assess the quality and effectiveness of the actions carried out. I would just like to add from myself that all these examples that you are bragging about are, to a large extent, incomplete, contextless and mainly used to obscure information about how nothing is done to prevent violence in the family. For example, the campaign on the protection of seniors against violence, praised by the Members, is such an example. The problem is not only the funding of this campaign, but also the fact that this campaign, which was supposed to promote a helpline to help victims of violence, was supposed to be displayed in two TV stations, but the authors of the report do not want to boast about what stations were displayed for this small amount of money. It is also not known how many people have benefited from this helpline. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These examples could be multiplied. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u94	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 in relation to the position presented by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the National programme against domestic violence for the 2014-2020 period. The report shall cover the year 2018. I may refer, as I have referred to several times, to the methodology for drawing up this report or to those reports that we have several of. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about 20 million PLN spent on this type of programme and it would be good to know on the basis of which indicators we assess the effectiveness of spending this money. That's where I'll start. It would be good to construct such programmes on the basis of objectives, but also, above all, on the concrete, measurable effects that the Ministry is able to plan at the beginning of each year, and then account for themselves before citizens. Unfortunately, these reports, as in this case, do not contain such indicators, so at the very beginning we have difficulty assessing whether the Ministry and its subordinate bodies really did what they intended, for this amount and whether the Poles' money was well spent. But this is such a digression, which I have repeatedly done here, that it is worth measuring the effectiveness of spending money, even to know how much for such a serious phenomenon, such a serious problem as family violence, we spend money and whether it is spent well. As far as violence is concerned, we know that this year the dramatic effects of violence in the family have been approximately 250,000. persons. These are the police's statistics. Of course, we do not have data in this report and there are no other reports that could indicate that this is still a phenomenon hidden in the privacy of the home. Indeed, a number of social campaigns carried out earlier have resulted in the fact that people have started to talk about this problem and to report such problems. The blue card procedure, which has been improved for many years, really helps the victims and makes the victim not feel alone. But the unsub also knows where to go for help so that family can be preserved, because family violence is a problem that doesn't always have to lead to family breakdown. Above all, however, first of all, we should protect the victims who suffer this violence, their health and their lives. The objectives set out here are in areas such as education, rapid response, assistance. I'll start by helping out. Of course, you can point out as a plus -- because I don't just want to point out the negatives -- that there are three additional centres for single women. However, statistically, these areas of aid are far too few, and in fact they have disappeared because they have lost consultative points in individual municipalities. Of course, local authorities are involved in direct aid, and for this they are praised, because although they definitely have financial shortcomings, they are still trying to carry out these tasks. It is worth noting that the number of programmes is increasing, but there are local governments, like the Zakopane government mentioned here, which do not have such programmes and probably do not intend to adopt them, which requires serious monitoring and serious reactions from the government, because it is a statutory obligation. These activities are not mentioned in the programme. As far as local authorities are concerned, it is strongly commendable that the number of intervention teams is increasing and that these intervention teams appear in the vast majority of cases. It should be commended that local governments run an educational campaign. Because when it comes to government action, i.e. the government's proxy for equality, it is unfortunately clear in this report that it did not carry out any educational action, although the educational action is its main task. There was no campaign. As far as the anti-violence campaigns are concerned, it is good that there are elements in this report that contain descriptions of a very large amount of materials, materials of the Justice Fund, but these elements do not indicate a single campaign directed directly at victims of violence. That's why there's a bill, that's why there's a special program to point out that this is a particular kind of crime. The educational campaign must therefore be pursued more widely. There are no calculations of how much money from the Solidarity Fund has actually gone into family violence. The attorney is also to be involved in the education of the justice system and the prosecutor's office. Please note the important element: in 2016, he once asked the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office to ask whether such programmes had been implemented at all. The answer came in 2018: such educational programs were not introduced, but our employees, you can say in a nutshell, were in international training. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Radio and Television Council shows many programs, but no one talks about education against violence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u96	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u97	God bless you! I bow down. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government Party! Party of the Law! The Power Camp! Government jury sets, as well as the jury ruling most of the guns, but you see -- you see -- and so some witches' coven will always vote democratically that you are in favour of violence in the family. So why put the devil's eyepieces or maybe half a candle? You better come with us, normal Poles. Let us reject the Istanbul Convention, stop paying tribute to political correctness, stop acting as girants of a revolution no longer crawling, but a revolution that leads not only through institutions, because this revolution has long been settled here, but also through our homes, through our families, trying - with great success - to dictate how we are not only to rule, but also to live in our own country. Istanbul Convention - clear, of course. Let us no longer stigmatize families by maintaining such illegal obligations as have been committed by previous governments. Let us not stigmatize, I say, families by making the family of some center of violence, some Death Star that generates violence in our lives. And if so, then, you know, I, at today's sitting - although closed - met the Committee on National Defence with the threats I think I have already met with a slight punishment on the part of my fellow Members. Am I supposed to complain to my mom, or are we gonna set up a special committee on violence in the Sejm committees? [[Applause]] It's absurd. It's absurd. Let's not bunk this nonsense together. While we are against the Istanbul Convention, we are against these evil system solutions, but as for this document, which you have brought here, honourable Members, to this Chamber before the High House, we do not think of it at all, because it is meaningless in its very essence. Set up a committee on violence in the workplace, at home and in the pen, set up 150 of these committees, it's all gonna make no sense. Of course, to be clear, crimes should not only be prosecuted but also fined. It is clear that the police, especially the one who wears hats and other elements of uniforming the emblem of the Republic of Poland, should not only behave decisively, but also tactfully: firmly towards criminals, tactfully towards victims of crime. However, let us not bring this issue out of this clear plan of criminal law framework: there is a crime, there is a delict, we must prosecute the perpetrator and punish him, and be exemplary in punishing him. Let's not bring this to some gnarly, foggy territory in which the state, in order to comply with such Istanbul conventions, must first enter, a great brother must enter into our family life, monitor them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u98	Thank you. The remaining time will be used by Mr Konrad Berkowicz, also near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u99	Ladies and gentlemen! The family as a social cell was created even before anyone thought that there could be such a thing as government, and survived thousands of years of human civilization, especially Latin civilization, and it does not need any government to interfere with it. If there is violence anywhere: in the street, in the school, in the Seym, then of course anyone who is guilty must be severely punished, but do not make violence in the world because the world is not perfect, an excuse to take away the family's autonomy, to take away their family's privacy, to take away their parents' parental authority, to enter their families with their shoes and mix their families with their natural politics. If you really want to fight violence about the family, fight the violence that the state apparatus uses, imposing such a tax on work, that the father of the family, in order to earn 2,800, must earn 4,800, because 2000 is taken up in taxes and then the woman has no choice (the bell), has to work and not take care of the family. Free choice for women, not interfering in family matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u100	Thank you very much. 28 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm opening a list of questions and closing a list of requests at the same time. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition. I don't see your MP. Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Girls! Hey, guys! 15 years have passed since the law on anti-violence in the family was passed, but in fact there is no week for public opinion not to be informed about the beating of a small child, meaning that we have misread, it seems, this subject as a society. Not surprisingly, since there are still books on our market like the baby's heart shepherd who simply urges us to punish very young children. It is good that the publishing house has withdrawn for now - I hope it has withdrawn forever - this type of book. I have a specific question. First of all, this is access to medical examination. We are getting signals that especially in small towns it looks very bad. What are you going to do about it? The second thing is a 24-hour phone. A 24-hour call for victims of crime is often the first step to get... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u102	Thank you very much. Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition. Thank you, Member. The Member has exceeded her time. Thank you. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Violence has sex. The victims of violence usually, unfortunately, of this painful violence, of violence in the family, are women. It is a pity that the report we are discussing today does not pay attention to how dramatic and unfortunately worse the situation of Poles is. Polish people who don't actually have any help out of nowhere, and the government prides themselves on having fewer reports. There are fewer calls, but that's the same hell. Words are not enough to prevent violence in the family. This calls for concrete action and targeting of programmes and projects to combat violence against women. I wanted to ask you specific questions, and I'm asking you to answer them in writing. How much money has been spent on protecting victims, in particular how much money has been spent on women's and secular organisations, and how much money has been spent on religious organisations, including Caritas? How many convictions have been imposed on the perpetrators of violence in the family, by gender of the victim and the perpetrator, and is it true that the Justice Fund, which was to help (the Bell) the victims of violence, has been... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Monica Falej, the Left Club. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report traditionally presented does not include information on violence against women. They simply do not appear in this report. Even in statistics, there's no gender breakdown. Traditionally, children also have no gender. The seniors in this country aren't involved in violence at all, they don't experience it. Moreover, there is no information on cooperation with non-governmental organisations dealing with violence, especially at local level. There is a detailed cooperation with the Churches, but not with associations and foundations. Therefore, I have the following questions and I ask you to answer them in writing. How many victims of violence are women and how many men? How many victims of child violence are girls, how many are boys? How many victims of violence are seniors? What activities are dedicated to gender and age groups? I would also like detailed information on the financing of NGOs operating in this area. In which local governments there are no anti-violence programmes, what measures have been taken to develop and implement such programmes? And finally. Are you monitoring the so-called bell? textbooks that are published... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u106	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u107	Violence in the family is a shameful subject for many, unfortunately not only for the victims of violence, but even for the parts sitting here. I have a question by analogy with drunk drivers and road pirates: Does public television, to which we direct huge money, apart from propaganda targets for the government, provide for the publicity of cases of violence, suffering, because they are most often women? The suffering of defenseless and innocent children is terrible. Also in order to create in society - just as it happened with drunk drivers - an atmosphere of universal condemnation, ostracism, to dare victims of violence and to dare those who see these situations in their neighbours, in their families, to report, because there is sense. Are such (the bell) actions foreseen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u108	Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 6% Municipalities in Poland have not adopted a legal anti-violence programme. This means that in many places in Poland victims do not have support. Therefore, I have the following questions to the Ministry: Do you monitor these places and place more emphasis on protecting these people? Do you know that this data hasn't changed to this day? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u110	Thank you. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, the Prime Minister spoke here about his desire to protect his family and normality. For the right hand, this protection and this normality are primarily the family in which the father, the mother and the children are. We know that the family itself unfortunately does not guarantee that this is a happy family. Special measures are needed to protect women and children from violence by men in their families. My question will also apply to those municipalities that have not implemented anti-violence programmes. Isn't the map of these municipalities consistent with the map of LGBT-free zones? Lower Silesia? Because I feel like the right wing wants to fight for a happy family, first of all, scaring LGBT as a threat to a normal family. There are certainly other causes of violence than so-called. LGBT ideology. Thank you. I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u112	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u113	My questions relate to the findings of the report. First of all, I wanted to know on what basis did you think that the most effective anti-violence action was a remedial action against the perpetrators? Because it cannot be concluded from this programme, which you describe here, that 1,200 people were trained in 2018 and only 43 people returned to violence. It takes more time and more material to be so authoritative. Of course, action is needed for perpetrators, but this is not the most important action. The second question is what is lacking in the conclusions. Namely, why aren't you suggesting, like Prime Minister Morawiecki in the exposé said, that it can't be that a abused woman and children run away from home? She won't run away when we strengthen the legal instrument (the bell) to isolate the perpetrators... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the Left Club. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, could you at least give us a chance to finish your sentence sometime? Madam President, everyone has the same amount of time. I'd let the marshal finish his sentence. And we're not wasting our time here for anything. If you were in the European Parliament, the vending machine would shut you down. ...that you treat us this way. We're talking about a very serious case. Member, please leave the speakerium and don't bother now. And you cut us in half.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u114	Madam President, allow the next Member to speak. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek. Unfortunately, time is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not a word in this report is devoted to the lives of the victims of violence. It is women with children who run away from their homes and are lucky if they go to homes of a single mother, which should be a temporary solution in Poland and are places of residence for years. The right to housing is a constitutional right. It is the responsibility of the state to ensure the safety of victims of domestic violence. And the state can't even admit that it doesn't care where a mother and several children sleep and live. You will say: municipalities can provide housing for victims of violence. And that's an example of pushing responsibilities. And women who experience violence for years are waiting for their own roof over their heads. Foundations, associations are trying to fill this deficiency, but it's your responsibility, your task. You're the ones with the resources, the tools to help the victims of violence. Why don't you want to use them? Why do you want women and children to live with their oppressors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u116	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u117	I'm listening to this report and I'm wondering, is it real action or is it a game of appearances? No law on economic violence, no rule on the isolation of the perpetrators of violence. Let us remind you that this was a promise from the Prime Minister. There's been a lot of set-ups here, and this one's not even made it in time. It turns out that 6% all municipalities in Poland did not adopt programmes for the protection of victims of violence, among others. Buried, we've all heard of it. That means that in 148 places in Poland, victims cannot count on support. What's the government doing? He's not doing anything. There's no voivodship surveillance. You do not implement the anti-violence convention, but you will not even ensure that the regulations in force in Poland are implemented. You don't care at all. Indeed, if we listen to the report, it seems that the government is going to take action. If we compare this to the real life of Poles, Poles, because it is the most common Women are victims of violence, it turns out that nothing is done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u118	Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing we're talking about violence today. Since yesterday, Poland has been living a book about the heart of a child, a guide that promotes the beating of a child from an early age. At least for these reasons we should have 1.5 minutes today because Poles are interested in violence. [[Applause]] By the way, I will remind you of the words of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, this is about the famous interview for Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, the Journal of the Legal Newspaper, who said that it was necessary to distinguish between what a spanking is and what a beating is. My question is about cross-border violence. In mid-2018 legislation was introduced to help solve this violence in families living in border areas. I mean the border between Poland, the Czech Republic and Germany. Indeed, judgments are quicker, but judges stress that the specialization of lawyers, judicial experts, translators and mediators is important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have the data, the information on how this works? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u120	Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u121	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The support provided by the PiS government to victims of violence is insufficient. The victims of violence are mainly women and children. Women are victims in about 90% cases conducted by the police or courts. Please answer in writing to the questions: Is she still losing her life in Poland as a result of violence of about 500 women a year? Does she experience about 900,000. A polka a year? To what extent has the problem of lasting refuge for victims of violence been solved? How much has the number of Blue Cards assumed increased by eligible entities? In how many centres in Poland can the victim of violence benefit from the help of specialists in child labour, family counseling, legal counseling or psychological counseling? Is there only another type of aid fully available, as usual? I would also like to know how many centres have increased, and how much has the participation of the perpetrators of violence (the Bell) which in most cases are men, in the case of the Blue Card procedure? Thank you, Member. Last question about the latest information: What does the percentage of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u122	Thank you very much, Member. I'm sorry. Thank you. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have in front of me data from 2018 on police action in the case of family violence and on the procedure of Blue Cards. I obtained the following data from the Kielce City Police Command. In 2018, 1359 people, including 1114 women, were affected by violence. 1292 people are suspected to be violent in the family. The conclusions of the police report are absolute. The number of crimes in relation to 2017 has increased by 45 and since 2016.67. Especially noteworthy is the fact that, apart from a few cases of detention, supervision, financial security, none of the perpetrators were referred to a therapeutic facility. No mechanisms have been put in place based on coordinated cooperation between all institutions and services capable of responding to domestic violence such as police, social workers, therapists and educators. The conclusion is: the program is not working. These are not statistics, but living people, suffering children and innocent people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: Why has Poland still not implemented the provisions of the Convention on Prevention and Control... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...violence against women and domestic violence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that victims of violence can find support for the functioning of the system is not your fault. This is happening despite your actions and despite your omissions. This is because of the work of thousands of people in NGOs, social workers and people who really want to help victims of violence who want them to find peace. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill should have been amended a long time ago. The Blue Cards procedure and forms are out of date. But you guys did all this stuff. Hence my question: When do I update the blue card procedure forms? When was the update of the anti-violence law in the family that hasn't been updated in 15 years? When to implement the definition of economic violence? When to implement a change in the definition of rape? When was the isolation of the victim's torturer so that it wasn't the victim who had to run away from home, but the victim was isolated from the victim? And when did you finally change the senseless spending of money from the Justice Fund to some bush and guy foundation (The Bell) rather than real help? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u126	Thank you very much. Write the project, sit down and write. I wrote it, you didn't... Member, please don't discuss it. The time for discussion was at the committee meeting. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the ministry is so concerned about a happy and safe family, why did the number of consultation points and support centres for those affected by violence decrease? Is the Ministry able to assess to what extent these points correspond to real demand? What is the availability of places in 24-hour support centres and crisis intervention centres in rural communities? Why has the number of people using support centres decreased so dramatically when research shows that violence is not decreasing? Why so few groups of therapeutic programs? What's the Ministry planning to do about it? According to the report, some 3400 women, some 1,000 children and only 200 men used them. The number of Blue A cards assumed is systematically decreasing, while violence is not decreasing. Does the Ministry draw any conclusions from this data and intend to take concrete action to change this state of affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u128	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the light of this report, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice how it intends to decide in a few days a competition for NGOs that assist victims with family violence and witness support. In previous years, last year this competition was decided out of 65 notified organisations. The funds were received by 35. For the third time, funding was missed by one of the most well deserved and longest active in the field of helping victims of violence in the family of the organization - the Centre for Women's Rights. The funds have been deprived of organizations such as HeytStop and the Foundation We give the Children Strength. However, most of the organizations that have received this assistance are ecclesiastical organizations or organizations that, although they have the word "children" or "family" in their statutes, have saved their aid to the victims, but in practice they do something different. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Will NGOs actually help this year? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Siarkowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the terminology used in this programme, adopted even during the Civic Platform, is highly ideological and basically stigmatizes the family. However, the problem we are discussing is that this violence is happening in the privacy of the home, and therefore it is happening among people who have a personal relationship, not always of a family nature. It could be concubine relationships, it could be single-sex relationships. However, every time the documents of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy apply the term "family violence." I have a request to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for us to use the appropriate term of domestic violence. Domestic violence is a more appropriate and broader term. I ask that we use this term, which is more precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u132	Mrs Magdalena Łośko, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the actions outlined in the National Programme against Family Violence should stimulate citizens' vigilance in matters of family violence. However, almost every day we learn from the media about new cases of violence against children, but also against women and elderly, sick people. Everything indicates that we still cannot control the violence and aggression in Polish families. The problem seems to be growing dramatically. By referring from the Law and Justice side to the fundamental values of Polish families ruling the problem will not solve. Police statistics show that only within a year is the phenomenon of violence in the family affected by nearly 250,000. persons, not to mention persons who, for various reasons - whether for fear of the oppressor or because of lack of action by third parties - do not benefit from the aid. Domestic violence has been experienced by nearly 4 million women in Poland. Plus, there are book items on the publishing market that promote child-beating under the cloak of religiousism. In view of this problem, does the Ministry see the shortcomings of the measures taken? Is the Ministry considering introducing real support measures for people at risk of violence? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u134	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the data provided in the report, only 142 police units have friendly interrogation rooms. To make matters worse, most of the rooms do not meet the requirements for the performance of the hearing in the manner set out in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 18 December 2013. Does this mean that only in every fourth police unit, the victims of violence have the right to a decent interrogation? Is it just one in four women who are victims of violence who deserve to be questioned under friendly conditions? Are the victims of the oppressors to suffer simply because, in the current legal state, no law obliges the police to create friendly interrogation rooms? Why didn't you take action to include in the Police Act an obligation to create such a peace while ensuring that the state budget did? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u136	Thank you. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been dealing with violence and crisis intervention for 20 years. Effectiveness requires cooperation and comprehensiveness. So I ask: How does the Ministry coordinate the actions of the entire government? Because he's reporting the government's actions. How do the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health work when neither teachers nor doctors are practically filling out the Blue Cards? How do you counteract suicide attempts among children, resulting from trauma, violence? We have a second suicide rate in Europe. How does the Ministry of Justice work, since several hundred women are murdered each year and several thousand children suffer injuries that leave lasting health effects; since it excluded women's expert organisations from subsidising from the Justice Fund, and ensured funding for actions faked and carried out by familiar rabbits; since it boasts of a week's aid to victims of crime, carried out only for a week, by NGO forces and volunteers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u138	Thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think we can all agree that a social worker's home is also family, often the only one. On this occasion, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the violence in the DPS. I personally visited this house in my town and in your hometown, Toruń. From the European Union fund, I was supposed to raise my qualifications. What I saw was simply beyond my imagination. I just wanted to say that I don't agree with it being zero degrees in the bathroom when the elderly and the disabled are bathed. [[Applause]] I also do not agree that meals should be given to such people to the wall, nor that there should be drawing in the dark, because the director of the social services house saves on light, on energy. I have a question for the Minister. Are you going to check the DPS and other... Thank you very much. ...not only in Toruń, in all cities, also private... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u140	Thank you, Member. Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Violence has sex. Although you are so afraid to say it out loud, and your report does not mention gender-based violence, the data contained in it says otherwise. You talk about people, about family, and most of the time it's about violence against women and children. As of 1 January 2014, data collection has been started only in relation to perpetrators of domestic violence. It's about the order to leave the premises occupied with the victim and the restraining order against the victim. New statistics. What do the statistics say? Obligation to refrain from staying in specific environments or places: in 2017 35 cases, against women - three, against men - 31. No contact with specific persons: 762 cases, against women - 21, against men - 741. Prohibited approach to specific persons: 1205 cases, against women - 28, against men - 1177. Order to leave the premises occupied with the victim: 604 cases, against women - 8, against men - 596. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The statistics of the indications in your report clearly show who is the most likely victim... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u142	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One European non-governmental organisation dealing with human rights claims that the lack of access to state funds has led the organisation to reduce the number of staff - I am thinking about non-governmental organisations - to reduce the geographical scope of activity, reduce basic benefits for victims of violence in the family and other forms of gender-based violence, including shelter, guidance and legal assistance. Organisations operating workshops on gender-based violence, the fight against discrimination and sexual health have also been forced to reduce their activities in this area. Specialist support for women and girls victims of violence and education and information on sexual health are unfortunately still highly inadequate in Poland and are well below international and regional standards. I have a question for the Minister: What was the amount of funds allocated to non-governmental organisations involved in combating violence? In 2018, did this size (the bell) change, i.e. Has it increased or decreased? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u144	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the report, the report shows that 6% The municipalities in Poland do not have local anti-violence programmes. This means that almost 150 localities and municipalities in Poland have said their obedience to the Polish state, because how else can we call the situation in which we have laws that impose specific obligations on local authorities, and these local governments treat these regulations as invalid, non-existent. So my question is this: What did you do, but specifically how many voivodeships' interventions were taken, how many substitution orders were issued by the voivods, how many requests were made for the resolution of specific local governments, because this is the legal possibility, if the local government does not implement the rules generally applicable, how many such requests were issued? It seems that our country is strong against the weak, but weak against the strong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u146	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u147	Minister! I have a question about the specific elements of this report. Ms Chorosińska praised the performance of tasks by the voivodships, but the report shows that the Mazowieckie voivodship and Lubuskie voivodship did not produce an annual report on the implementation of the programme against violence in the family and did not update their online databases with information on services for people experiencing violence. So my question - and I ask for a written answer - is: Where does the Ministry feel this is coming from, and what does the Ministry do to prevent such situations in the future? There is also information on how many meetings of interdisciplinary teams and working groups were held, how many families were assisted. This is not compared to the figures in 2017, but I compared it. The number of interdisciplinary teams and working groups is increasing, but the number of meetings of these teams and these groups is decreasing. So my question - and again I ask for a written answer - is: Why is the number of institutions that deal with violence increasing, but the number of meetings (the bell) decreasing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u148	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2018 the then Minister, Mrs Rafalska, visited the so-called. family congress in Budapest, whose name sounds nice, but it is actually a meeting of religious fundamentalists who are trying to influence legislation in Europe and the world. After this visit, she willingly announced that she would present an amendment to the law on anti-violence in the family. This law could be seen a year ago when it entered the Sejm and after a few days it was also withdrawn by you, thanks to the opposition of women's organizations. After a while, it turned out that the experts who advised Mrs. Rafalska are the fundamentalists of the religious organization Ordo Iuris. So my question is, is the ministry still working with the so-called. experts from the Ordo Iuris Foundation? If I don't get an answer today, I'd ask for it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u150	Member Jan Szopiński, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what concrete actions the Polish government has taken towards local governments, which have not implemented the law on anti-violence in the family. On the one hand, Polish self-governments maintain blue lines, on the other hand, phones of trust. I would also like to know what funds the government has allocated to co-financing these activities. The last two cases, namely building apartments for victims of domestic violence. Self-governments have these kinds of activities. What measures are planned in the government? Where can local governments request such assistance in 2020? And one specific question. It was famous for the issue of a call of trust for children and young people, for which there were no state resources, and which in the past years was supported by the outstanding Polish footballer Jakub Błaszczykowski. Does this phone exist in 2020? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u152	Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is undoubtedly the success of the government program is the fact that more and more people who benefit from the assistance of specialised institutions receive this assistance very professionally. Talking to employees shows that improving the situation in families is very important and necessary for women to become independent. 500+, child support provided, higher minimum wage - all this makes women get back on their feet and start to get their own lives together. If there is a favourable self-government, then there is a revelation at all, problems are solved. I would like to point out very clearly that the system is working with the support of various government programmes. On the other hand, the scales of violence against women in Poland and Europe are two different worlds... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. In Poland - 9% , in Europe - 40.50%. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Bravo! We do not want a European model.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u154	Thank you very much, Member. You've run out of time. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Iwona Michalek, will now speak. Although the ladies who have asked questions have mostly left, I understand that you will answer those who remain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that I thank you very much for this discussion today, because very important and valuable comments have come from all sides of this room. And I want to declare that when we're building a new program that we're working on, we're going to take all your votes into account. Allow us to address these comments, these questions in which you wanted to hear the numbers, the dates, in writing, in accordance with your suggestions. However, I would like to comment on some comments now. Namely Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz said what the costs were, about the campaign, she gave an amount of 150,000. per year. I would like to say that spending such measures was adopted in 2014 when the Civic Platform was in power, so I think that you should ask yourself that. However, when it comes to the new centre in Krakow, which was said here that it was not actually created - well, a new one was created, because... I mean, he was transformed from the Caritas facility. In order to equip this center, the transformation of this center the government has allocated 200,000. zł from the state budget, so this is very... Now, it is currently financed by the state budget of 35 thousand. PLN per year. However, I would like to make such comments to you. The lady from my town, Mrs Hartwich, was talking about the DPS. I would like to say this: If you know such a case, please do so in writing. The things you've said are, of course, absolutely unacceptable. These things can't happen. On the other hand, if you know such a case, describe it, explain it in writing and we will respond. I'd like to. Check it out. Check it all out. Of course, of course, my fellow Member. No problem. I'm sure it is. Another Member asked here about the campaign on TV. I would like to say that the campaign in 2018 was shown in Program 2 of Polish Television and in Polsata, because they are such stations that are viewed simply by older people and that is why it was broadcast there. Ms. Agnieszka Chasing said very important things that, of course, we will consider. I would like to say that indicators have been developed for this national programme. You said that there are no indicators, they are - it's about the number of people, the percentage of participation, etc. - but, of course, the Member is right. When drawing up the new programme, we will try to establish indicators so that the effectiveness of the actions can be determined so that we can assess the effectiveness of the actions. Of course we're gonna do it. The question was why interdisciplinary teams do not receive funding for functioning. The operation of interdisciplinary teams is designed to provide local authorities with their own task. Team members, a policeman, a social worker, a educator, always worked within the commune and walked back then... Establishment of these teams in 2011 - that is what I want to stress - it was intended to show that in combating violence we should work together, that only joint action can produce good results here. This action is supported by a cover programme of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy amounting to 3 million a year. There was also a question about housing for victims of violence. The blue card procedure is to ensure that the person experiencing violence does not have to leave the apartment. Of course, it's different. In addition, there is a support system for shelter. There are 36 specialised support centres in Poland - financed by the state budget, as well as by local government crisis intervention centres - 220 of them. So there are things, there are things that we do in this area. In addition, the Act provides legal solutions to ensure that local authorities first provide social housing to victims of such violence. Mrs Piekarska spoke about the fact that there is no 24-hour phone call. Well, there's a 24-hour phone call that works seven days a week. This has been running the Blue Line since 2014 and I would like to say that the budget of the state is allocated 340 000. PLN per year. So that's the phone, I can even give you the phone number. So that these actions are being taken. You also talked a lot about the fact that some municipalities didn't develop... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, yeah. So what I'm saying is, actually, according to art. 6 point 2 of the cited law is not obliged to draw up the programme annually. It is possible to adopt a certain time horizon and carry out tasks over the indicated period, which is, of course, the practice of many municipalities. And what I'm trying to say is, just because someone hasn't developed a program doesn't mean they're not doing it. It's just that local governments are doing this. I'm telling you again. There have been many valid questions about the details. And to all the questions you will get a written answer: whether it is addressed to my department, or to the Ministry of Justice, or to the Ministry of Education, or to health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u156	Thank you very much. That concludes the discussion. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the adoption of a report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Family Violence for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We join a block of questions in the context of current questions. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. The first question is asked by Marek Polak, Ewa Filipiak, Filip Kaczyński, Krzysztof Kozik and Władysław Kurowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr Marek Polak will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u157	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Last week, on January 13, some voivodships began their two-week winter holidays for children and schoolchildren. And very good, because it's a good time to relax, as well as enjoy winter attractions and practice only available during this period of winter sports. But not all parents can personally take care of their children during spring break, especially children of preschool age who require 24/7 care and supervision. This is where the problem arises, which is often an important concern for working parents. That is why I wanted to ask what it looks like to organize preschool classes in both public and non-public kindergartens during winter holidays and whether both categories of entities are obliged to organize on-call periods during spring break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u158	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is responsible. Excuse me, Mr Maciej Kopeć, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of National Education, responds. Sorry, I actually read another entry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this problem that you have spoken about, in accordance with Article. The 94th Education Law of the year in all schools and institutions, i.e. also in kindergartens, begins on 1 September each year and ends on 31 August of the following year. Looking at the following provisions, i.e. the regulation of the Minister of National Education of 28 February 2019, the regulation on the detailed organisation of public schools and public kindergartens... The kindergarten operates throughout the school year, in other words, the kindergarten is a non-profit institution, i.e. One that doesn't apply to holidays or school holidays, so what I understand is an essential part of the answer. In accordance with Article 12 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not bound by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union or of Justice of the European Union or of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union. 1, as I said, the kindergarten operates So these breaks are set by the community of a given kindergarten, while when a break is planned in the kindergarten, the provision of another pre-school education place to the child at that time rests with the municipality authorities, which follows in accordance with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 Educational Laws. In the case of non-public kindergartens, however, the working time is determined by the host body, which is also based on the Education Law, art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3. The selection of a non-public kindergarten, a paid procedure for the implementation of pre-school education and the conclusion of a civil law contract with a non-public kindergarten operator is a voluntary and autonomous action of parents. The provisions of the Education Law do not apply to such civil law contracts, i.e. here in a non-public kindergarten it is governed by the agreement of parents with a kindergarten authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u160	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u161	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, From the information they reach me, during spring break the number of children of preschool groups of different ages is combined, and children are cared for, but teaching tasks are not always carried out, and sometimes classes are limited in time. Personally, I don't see anything wrong with that, if that's what's going on. only during the break period and, of course, if the circumstances allow it. But I would like to ask: Are such practices really happening, and if so, are they acceptable in the light of the rules in force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u162	Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopeć is again responding to the Undersecretary of State. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as pre-school groups are concerned, here we are dealing with a situation where their maximum size is fixed. However, there are, of course, provisions which, in exceptional cases, also allow such measures to be taken - you can imagine situations where you can take care of children from different groups. But you have to remember. that there is also a programme basis in kindergarten, i.e. one should also look at it from the point of view and the basis pursued, and the teacher who takes care of the pre-school unit in question, i.e. he is obliged to do such teaching and educational activities, which will ultimately enable the educational objectives to be achieved. On the other hand, when it comes to control measures, if there is a reported case which would be abuse, in a particular case and in a specific situation, if there is a breach of law, of course it is possible to intervene or intervene the school curator should. Such issues should also be reported to municipalities, host bodies, because kindergarten is the task of its own municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u164	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Anna April, Piotr Uściński and Anita Czerwińska from the Law and Justice Club, a question about a new model of child psychiatry. The first question is asked by Anna April. Mr. Marshal, we were supposed to have a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mental health is a fundamental personal good of a man whose protection belongs to the responsibilities of the state. A thoughtful concern for mental health builds the capital of individuals, families and society, a friendly, efficient system of assistance and support in mental health crises counters personal and family tragedies and great social losses. For years there has been a shortage of places in children's psychiatric hospitals, a shortage of practically all over the country. There are only about 400 of them in Poland for about 400 thousand. children who may need professional help. The need for further reform of psychiatry, with particular emphasis on psychiatry of children, has been highlighted in this context. A visible sign of these reforms is the implementation of the pilot programme of mental health centres, the preparation of the basis for the reconstruction of psychiatric treatment of children and young people and the mobilisation of projects from the European Social Fund. Therefore, I have questions to the Minister: How will the Ministry of Health reorganize child psychiatry? What will be the new model of the three-step division of psychiatric assistance centres for children and young people? When will the implementation of this programme begin? Does this model provide for cooperation with local governments? What financial resources do you envisage for this ambitious programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u166	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u167	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, psychiatric care for children and young people requires urgent intervention and rapid change. We have been preparing for these changes for several years, because these changes are determined to a large extent by various factors, including. I mean psychiatrists, psychologists, psychotherapists, environmental therapists - but also the improvement of this situation is determined by the number of persons who would like to provide these benefits. The psychiatric care system for children and young people, but not only for adults, has been functioning for many, many years in unchanged form. On the other hand, world trends, recommendations from the World Health Organisation or the experience of the European Union countries indicate that this system needs to be redrafted, completely reversed. We've had psychiatric wards in multi-specialized hospitals or psychiatric hospitals so far. Most of the patients who were suffering from mental health problems were hospitalized, where mostly pharmacological methods were used, there was no continuity of care after leaving the hospital. The experiences of the European Union countries or the global recommendations point to a completely different model. And we were just, among other things. Based on these criteria, we have built a three-step model of psychiatric care for children and young people. We also used patterns or experiences of various types of pilots that were carried out in the country, because I would like to remind you that among others. from the budget of the European Union, pilots were financed by the European Union in the country where effectiveness was checked e.g. mental health centres. I'm going back to my new project now. Well, we're building a three-stage system. The first level is the level that should function as close as possible to the child's place of residence, place of residence, place where he learns, in his environment. We assume that the first mental health disorders, mainly emotional disorders, behavioral disorders, can be corrected in clinics without the need for medical intervention. That is why we are building the first level, which has not functioned in Poland so far, and it is well developed in other countries, based on psychological and psychotherapeutic clinics. There will be a four-man team working in these clinics. This team includes a psychologist, two psychotherapists and an environmental therapist. The benefits in these clinics will probably be contracted since February, as all the legal acts that allow the contracting process have already been prepared. A regulation was issued by the Minister of Health on the terms and conditions of health contracts in the area of psychiatry for children and young people, as well as the President's financing order, and the contract procedure for these benefits is about to begin. We assume that in the country there will be contracted benefits in about 300 such clinics, which is about the same as the map of powiats. We would like at least in each district at the first stage of the creation of a new system to operate a psychological-psychotherapeutic clinic where it will be possible to provide benefits without referral. It's very important that you don't need a doctor's referral from anyone. You and your child can go to such a clinic and there will certainly be help there. The financing of these clinics shall be ensured. The Agency for Medical Technology and Tarification estimated the costs of such a clinic at around 500,000. PLN per year, or 0.5 million per clinic. Of course, the final financial terms will be set in the contest mode, but this amount was roughly simulated by the agency. These funds are secured in the budget of the National Health Fund. At the moment, talks are already taking place with the directors of the voivodship branches and competitions will soon be held. Therefore, I would like to appeal to all those who have an impact on the emergence of such counsellors at the level of local authorities, so that they will support us in this process of changing the mental care system for children and would like to activate, for example, local medicinal entities - often the counties are the owners of hospitals and specialist counsellors - so that in their activities they can start a cell that allows them to contract this type of benefit. We want Polish children in the event of health problems They weren't hospitalized. We want to change the approach (the bell), deinstitutionalise this care so that the treatment of the child is conducted in a friendly environment, in its surroundings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club, asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u169	Dear Minister, Thank you so much for this information. You mentioned in your statement the lack of staff. In fact, there is a shortage of doctors. Children's psychiatrists. There's only a few hundred of them all over the country. To the first level counseling room, these 300 clinics you've been talking about, we're gonna need psychologists, psychotherapists, so we're gonna need personnel here. And the supplementary question is this: Will there be any solutions to the programme in the field of training of specialists, doctors, psychologists, therapists, assistants, psychiatry and psychiatry of children's age? 300 clinics across the country times four, so you will need more than 1,000 specialists for these clinics. And that number of child psychiatrists on a national scale is still small. Are there any plans to increase their numbers to target doctors, young doctors, to do this specialization? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u170	Thank you very much. Ms Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Minister of Health, again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I might be able to fill in some information about this new system. I was talking about the first level based on psychopsychotherapeutic counseling. The second level is the level which already partially functions in Poland, but it will be a supplement to this project, i.e. it will be mental health clinics for children and young people, where the doctor will be already, psychiatric wards for children and young people and environmental treatment teams. This is also outpatient care, but it already works under the direction of a doctor, where it can be turned on e.g. pharmacotherapy. Only if deep disorders, i.e. signs of mental illness, are found, the child is ultimately directed to psychiatric wards. As I mentioned, we want psychiatric treatment to take place on an outpatient level according to world trends, and hospitals are intended only for the most serious cases. I would like to set such an example from the countries of the European Union. In Italy, for the whole of Italy, we have 35 beds for psychiatricly treated children and adolescents, because the entire psychiatric treatment is done in the home environment or in clinics. As for staff, we actually have very few doctors, 441 specialists in psychiatry of children and young people. From year to year we increase the number of residences, and the number of people willing to get this specialization is increasing. This is due to the fact that among others. We have increased funding for residents, we are increasing the number of places in medical universities, but in a few years their graduates will be able to decide on a specific specialization. However, once again, the doctor is only starting to function from the second level. This first level is based on psychologists, psychotherapists, environmental therapists. In order to provide this staff, already in 2018 the Minister of Health prepared a draft law - and Parliament adopted it - on the new specialization applicable to health protection, i.e. psychotherapy of children and adolescents. There we defined a detailed way, a way to get to the title of specialist. Of course, we have also given the opportunity to acknowledge the achievements of those who have obtained these titles, and they are functioning in the system. This causes us to grow psychotherapists of children and young people every year. When it comes to training psychologists in this field, many universities in the country train psychologists. I think this is a good time to use their expertise in the system. Regarding environmental therapist - because he is also a member of this team - also last year we defined a qualification framework on the basis of which employees can obtain an environmental therapist certificate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we thought of the shot earlier. I hope that with the support of local authorities, we will be able to implement these changes in psychiatry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u172	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marek Rząsa, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska and Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition - on the collapse of the hospital care system in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. Please, Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u173	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Last Saturday, in the streets of Rzeszow, over a few thousand nurses. They came practically from all over Poland to support their colleagues, union activists from Rzeszow and Przemyśl, who were disciplinedly exempted by the directors from giving your party. It is disgraceful and outrageous that 31 years after the fall of the commune in Poland, the country of the cradle of solidarity, the first free trade union in the communist block, the country of Lech Wałęsa and John Paul II, intimidates, reprisals, and finally releases union activists just because they have the courage to speak loudly about workers' rights and tell the truth about hospital problems. Moreover, Minister, they insist that the regulation on the pay of nurses, signed by Minister Szumowski, should be respected. This is because what some hospital directors do with the PiS is even sabotage towards the Ministry of Health. Paradoxically, then, through your protest, the nurses take care of the good name of the constitutional minister. On Saturday, Vice-Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodship from giving PiS trampled on the dignity of nurses and women, imposing responsibility on them for the debt of hospitals and accusing them of endangering the lives and health of patients. The nurse's profession is very close to the minister, so I think you're feeling what your friends must be feeling right now. He thus showed all contempt for this authority for the hard and responsible work of nurses. In Podkarpacie, entire branches are being liquidated, and some hospitals, because of lack of resources, are even asking dramatically for any donations they can make to them. The number of hospital beds is falling dramatically. Only in my city, Przemyśl, the Minister, in the last 4 years, more than 1,100 beds have been decommissioned. I wanted to ask: Will the Minister of Health keep his word to the nurses and the agreement on their wages be respected by hospital directors? And make sure the money goes to them, to the nurses, not to other purposes? And will the Minister of Health be involved in mediations aimed at restoring to the work redundant nurses, trade union activists? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u174	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, answers the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the situation which is currently occurring in Podkarpackie voivodship, connected with conflict, local conflict between workers and the hospital director, adversely affects the situation not only in Podkarpackie voivodship, but also affects Poland as a whole. I would like to stress that regardless of what political colors we are looking for on the voivodship boards, we are talking to every voivodship board, not just those boards that are from Law and Justice. Many such discussions were conducted with the management boards of other voivodships in order to improve the health situation. Many problems, many of the conflicts that arise, stem not directly from the lack of national solutions, but from misinterpretations, different approaches or local circumstances. Therefore, we support all such situations where the relationship between the employee and the employer is inflamed. Of course, the Minister of Health is constantly monitoring the situation. He's meeting with a voivodship marshal, talking about problems. I, too, personally met with the marshal, the vice marshal. I'm also in contact with the nurses. Because I really am very close to this environment, and I care about resolving these conflicts. Especially since I also have experience as director of the hospital. The point is that every effort must be made to resolve such conflicts on the spot. As regards the issue of disciplinary dismissals, the proceedings are already in the labour court. Consequently, the independent court will decide whether there were indeed legal grounds for such an exemption procedure - and not at all. I'm sure the director of the medical facility will execute that sentence. As regards the points that you raise in your question, I would also like to give specific specific answers, because this question contains a lot of inconsistencies. The issue of closed hospital wards and changing the number of beds. I would like to stress that the number of beds that Mr Przemyśl quoted in the last 4 years has been reduced by 250 rather than 550. I have the data from the register kept by the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, as well as from the Centre for Health Protection Information Systems, where such data is transmitted. As far as the liquidation of the troops is concerned, it's not a matter of... As you say, in recent years, 211 new branches have indeed been removed from the register of 318 branches, but 211 new branches have been registered. This is a natural process - when the branch profile changes, the branch name changes, it is clear from the law that it is necessary to register and then register a new cell. As regards the liquidation of beds in the whole Podkarpackie voivodship, the number of beds in the voivodship decreased by 650. What is important - this is a normal management process when it comes to changing the number of beds. It is important that these beds, which are, are optimally used. Data provided by the Centre of Information Systems show that the use of beds in Podkarpacie is 62%. So even if a number of beds have been removed, this certainly does not limit the availability of health care services. As regards the issue of the transfer of funds to remuneration, as you know perfectly well, these funds are transferred separately to each medical entity, including the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, for the salaries of nurses. This is precisely set out in the Regulation - how these funds should be transferred. Over 340 160 thousand have been registered in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship in the last year. PLN per salary only nurses. The question to be clarified is the matter of handing these funds over to nurses later. Of course we are talking about this, the Minister of Health issued an appropriate interpretation, there were checks. The Director - that is the law, and this is described in the case of the review process - has the right, if he does not accept certain recommendations after the inspection, to appeal to the court and to use such a procedure. It is a pity that this is happening because I think it would be more friendly and beneficial for patients, staff, if these conversations were to continue on an ongoing basis and if there were no such situation, but this is what it looks like right now. I want to assure you that the Minister of Health monitors this situation, supports both nurses and local authorities who are responsible for the conduct of medicinal products. I hope that this situation will be improved soon and that there will be no exacerbations. I know from the Marshal of the voivodship that in the near future there will be another meeting of the Voivodship Council of Social Dialogue, Mr Marshal also invited trade union representatives to the next negotiations on 24 January and declared the far-reaching will of the agreement. I hope that this conflict will soon be resolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u176	Thank you very much. Now an additional question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u177	Minister! You admitted there was a conflict in Podkarpacie. There's a conflict with nurses in Podkarpacie, and unfortunately, despite your conversations, you can't see a happy finale, a happy ending. We want to correct: in Przemyśl the city hospital was wound up for 270 beds and about 250 beds by order of the director of the hospital. So I would ask that the data be reliable. Voivodship Hospital - for us the scandal is that in the voivodship hospital nurses are fired, members of trade unions, without the consent of unions. That's what's causing the conflict. These 5 years: the hospital network law - fiasco, queues increased, hospital debts increased, according to the forecast increases hospital losses, Podkarpackie voivodship and district hospitals are in debt, forecast losses. Their directors, as confirmed by the reports of the NIK and the Regional Auditorium, spend money uneconomically, unreliablely. There is a lack of supervision of hospitals by the Marshal's office, the debt of hospitals in Poland is increasing and you simply do not control it. And that's what's important. My predecessors in Law and Justice also talked about the problems of child psychiatry. She said that the last five years have been a fiasco for the PiS government's health management.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u178	Thank you, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I will now go to the specific data you are asking about. Information from the register of medical entities provided by the Centre of Information Systems for Health Protection and Podkarpackie Voivodeship: the number of beds in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship as at 1 January 2015 - in the whole voivodship, not in Przemyśl, I am talking about the whole voivodship - was 9266 and on 31 December 2019 9923, i.e. in the Podkarpackie Voivodship there was an increase in the number of beds. Such were the decisions of local governments, not only of the local government, but also of local governments, and they just caused the number of beds to increase. In the case of Przemyśl - also data from this source, which I quoted - in 2016 the number of beds was 103 and at the end of 2019 750. 1103, I think. 1103, Minister. These are the data from the register kept by the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. That's the data from the registry. As regards debt issues. Of course, you remember very well, we have already talked about this many times here, about the increase in health expenditure. In the last 4 years there has been a significant increase, by more than 30%, from 74 billion in 2014 to 106 billion this year. This increase occurred also in Podkarpackie voivodship, where expenditure on health care, also on hospitals, is significantly increasing. As far as debt is concerned, it is indeed debt at the end of the third quarter of the year. It was PLN 13.6 billion, but given the increase in expenditure on health care, the relationship between increased expenditure and commitments is much more favourable than it has been in previous years. By guaranteeing an increase in health expenditure of up to 6% gross domestic product in subsequent years will also increase funding. I would like to stress that 80% the liabilities payable to all hospitals generate 6% Hospitals, 74 units. 50% the liabilities payable to all hospitals account for only 2% These units. 73% hospitals are not in debt, so this is not a common phenomenon, as you say. There's a group of hospitals that haven't done well for many, many years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is often largely due to overinvestment and burdens that are independent of the current financing of health services.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u180	Thank you, Minister. Another question on the restructuring of PBS bank is asked by MEPs: Krzysztof Gawkowski, Katarzyna Kretkowska, Karolina Pawliczak, Hanna Gill-Piątek, Anita Sowińska, Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Maciej Gdula, Tomasz Trela, Krzysztof Śmisek, Robert Obaz, Paweł Krutul, Katarzyna Ueberhan, Dariusz Wieczorek, Adrian Zandberg, Robert Kwiatkowski, Wiesław Buż, Magdalena Bejat, Katarzyna Kotula, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic and Andrzej Rozenek. Everyone from the Left Club. The first question is asked by Mr Wiesław Bug. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For several days Podkarpacie and Poland have been commenting on the restructuring of Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank with its seat in Sanoku. The Financial Supervision Commission and the Banking Guarantee Fund have applied a precursor, little known restructuring method. Please present this method to the High House and explain what its location is in the Banking Law, as there is no pattern for saving banking by such a restructuring path. The Bank of PBS has been under the strict supervision of KNF since 2016 and has implemented an approved resolution programme for the years 2016 to 2020. From the statement of the suspended supervisory board, we know that the financial result of PBS indicated that the recovery process was going well and that banking activities could be carried out continuously. The actions taken are chaotic and have caused many irreversible damage to PBS, its customers and its employees. We know that the resources of citizens and small businesses are safe, but 34 hospital authorities, hospitals and larger entrepreneurs can lose some of their resources. So most of all, people will get hurt. Does the new BFG have a banking licence? Has the BFG decision on compulsory restructuring been passed on to all members and bondholders whose legal interests were infringed? Why was the restructuring carried out at this point, since PBS had been fulfilling KNF's orders for more than 4 years and followed its recommendations? What was the reason for such determined action? Does the company that carried out the study on the economic condition of PBS have the authority to properly assess the assets and liabilities of the bank in such an important case? Why didn't KNF warn the bank's customers about the consequences of its bad economic situation, since she had been well aware of this situation for a long time? Could it not be possible to increase the level of the recapitalisation (the bell) and to grant a long-term restructuring loan so as to ensure the continued operation of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Skiba corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the situation of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok is serious. It follows from a series of actions that took place in previous years by the bank's authorities and related to its management, which led to the situation that took place. The question was, what mechanism was used. Generally, there are currently two basic ways of dealing with a bank in Poland, to which there is a legitimate belief that it is in danger of bankruptcy. The first standard mechanism is simply to declare the entity bankrupt. The second mechanism is provided for in the implemented European law, i.e. the BRRD Directive. There is a compulsory restructuring mechanism which is applied to entities characterised by the fact that their operation is indeed related to the public interest. Thus, in cases where such entities are involved, it has already been envisaged to use the mechanism of forced restructuring for them. These are the two roads, two situations that can happen to any bank in Poland. In fact, if we ask about a particular bank today... The Bank Guarantee Funds identify specific paths for each bank. If we're dealing with a small entity, it's usually a bankruptcy. If we're dealing with public interest, which is usually... This is the most common, simple way - but it is not an exclusive distinction - to assess the nature of the contribution of local governments, the size or the impact on the stability of the financial sector. Then the solution adopted isn't bankruptcy, it's forced restructuring. Therefore, the mechanism envisaged in such situations is described in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. This law was adopted in 2016 - it was an implementation. The Act - such outline of the project - was prepared before November 2015, just after the elections. In 2016, after minor corrections, the Act was adopted. It was one of the first laws that were adopted by the Sejm of the previous term of office. The Bank Guarantee Fund Act provides for the entire mechanism of action related to compulsory restructuring. This law in Article. 101 states that three essential conditions are necessary in order for the compulsory restructuring procedure to be initiated. First, the bank must be threatened by bankruptcy, i.e. In general, the capital of this bank must indicate bankruptcy. There is a discussion of the moment when the bankruptcy takes place, but in general an estimate has been made in the case of this bank which indicates that the capital is negative, i.e. the assets of the bank do not allow the guarantee to be secured. Therefore, the Commission for Financial Supervision - and this is clear - informed the Bank Guarantee Fund that the bank is threatened with bankruptcy. Therefore, the information was derived from the estimation and from the data collected. In the next step, the Financial Supervision Commission took note of this information and communicated, confirmed that the bank was threatened with bankruptcy. So this is the first of three important reasons. The second step raises the question - this is provided by the law - whether bankruptcy is the only way, whether there are other ways: supervisory or other actions that can protect the bank from bankruptcy. KNF informed in its letter that there were no indications that it was possible to take supervisory action or act by a bank that would remove the risk of bankruptcy in good time. Thus, first the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission, then the Bank Guarantee Fund verified this. Both institutions took note of the fact that there was no other way than the road involved in forced restructuring. The next step - and this is the distinction between bankruptcy and forced restructuring - is to ask about the public interest. As part of the identification, the basic question is whether to make the bank fail, and then all the equity measures, the bonds that the bank issued, all the funds that are not guaranteed and the amount of 100,000 is guaranteed. EUR expressed in PLN, i.e. more than 400 thousand. zł, which every company and every entrepreneur - but no longer a local government - have guaranteed... In general, in this scenario of bankruptcy as envisaged, the bank falls, as was the case with SK Bank in Wołomin... And the skoks. ...and in this case all self-government funds are lost, all over-guarantee funds are lost, all funds over 100,000. the euro in a given bank is in the succession which remains after that bank. In general, this is usually a situation where it is very difficult to recover anything from bankruptcy. Therefore, the identification, the decision of the BFG was that there is a public interest, the means of self-government should be protected, measures of over-guarantees, persons and micro-enterprises should be protected, and it was therefore decided that in this situation forced restructuring is the best, because it is better to protect 53% means of self-government and protect all funds of over-guarantees (the bell), i.e. micro-companies, than lead to bankruptcy. This is the basis of the BFG's activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u184	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked again by Mr Wiesław Buj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u185	Thank you very much. A few questions were very detailed and you didn't answer them. Therefore, is the Minister of Finance or perhaps the Prime Minister himself taking action to save this bank without harming and exposing customers, local governments and economic operators to losses or bankruptcy? It's not the bank that's gonna lose people. It's not the bank that's gonna lose them. It's not the bank that's gonna lose them. It's not the bank that's gonna lose them. We therefore demand that the government find resources to save local governments, hospitals and entrepreneurs. The situation in which these entities will pay for the rescue of the bank, which was under the special supervision of the KNF, cannot be allowed - I stress: under the special supervision of the KNF - for several years now. This is also demonstrated by the failure of supervision and the liability for damages should be assumed by KNF. We therefore demand that all financial documents which have had an impact on the restructuring decision (the bell) and the operation of KNF and PBS since 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Skiba is again responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not have time to answer a few questions. Shortcut. Of course, there's a new entity's banking license. All information relating to the compulsory restructuring procedure is covered by secrecy and therefore there is no legal possibility of informing anyone of these actions, of any plans before the start of the compulsory restructuring procedure. Therefore, the fact that anyone was not informed: the authorities of the bank, the persons who are the shareholders of the bank or the customers are natural results from the legal provisions of the law. The compulsory restructuring procedure does not allow the public to be informed that such a decision will be taken. There was a question about actions related to the support of local governments. Indeed, in recent times we are aware that, in fact, the measures that have been taken, i.e. forced restructuring, are primarily justified by the rescue of local authorities. Because an alternative to which institutions so-called. Security networks, KNF, BFG, found themselves, that is the choice: either to let the bank threaten to fail, or to lead to forced restructuring and protect those 53% Fifty-six percent of the resources. This solution is simply better, so decisions were made based on this alternative. With regard to today's situation, when part of the funds have been decommitted, it is really important to support the local authorities that have experienced this situation. The four basic steps that have already been taken are therefore the following. Firstly, on 23 January the Ministry of Finance will pay educational and balancing subsidies to the local government units in the amount of almost 76 million PLN, intended primarily for the functioning of schools, expenditure related to the salaries of teachers. The second element: The Ministry of Finance is working on the possibility of paying another instalment of subsidies on accelerated dates, thus ensuring the safety of the functioning of local government units. First of all, the implementation of the 500+ programme is to be carried out without interference, so this issue is particularly important in terms of securing the programme. Thirdly, and this is also important, support from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The bank's representatives are already meeting with local government officials. The Bank will present a range of financial mechanisms on preferential terms that will provide them with liquidity. By Friday, i.e. by tomorrow, the local authorities are also to meet with the voivode, with whom we, i.e. representatives of the bank and the Ministry of Finance, we are in constant contact to assess the full losses associated with this case. The idea is to further reflect on the next steps that we can take to support (the bell) the local government unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u188	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Mieczysław Kasprzak and Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish on the same matter. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The fact that the question is repeated shows how important it is for the Podkarpackie community, for local governments. This decision on the forced restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank was a really big surprise, as the Minister spoke about here, and it brings great danger and great damage. Today, the most disadvantaged are local governments. The Minister was talking about some proposals, but it's not exactly like that. But my question is: Didn't KNF know that there was such a threat before? Because KNF worked with the board of directors. This resolution in Podkarpackie Bank Cooperative was carried out on an ongoing basis. Some recommendations were made this year, all the bank's activities were consulted with KNF and suddenly: boom! Turns out the bank is inefficient, he's in danger of bankruptcy. Another thing. This year, as far as I know, there have been tenders. Self-governments participated in service tenders. Couldn't we have told the local authorities not to participate in these tenders and not to strain their condition, not to lose themselves? Because today, when we talk about local governments, we think about citizens. Those who paid taxes there. Self-government is the people. Donation subsidy. The State declares that it will compensate the subsidy, pay the funds. But there was money in those banks, Minister. It's about millions of dollars. Hospitals lost money, local governments... [[♪ The bell ♪]] A few million, four-five million or six-seven million for such a small local government, and there were 45 local governments. That's a lot of money. I ask: Will this money be paid?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u190	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, again responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the Financial Supervision Authority is concerned, at the time when the assessment was made, that negative capital, which is the basis for establishing that the bank is in danger of bankruptcy, the Financial Supervision Authority confirmed that there were no indications that the supervisory or bank's possible actions in this case would in good time remove the risk of bankruptcy. In fact, it is confirmed in the committee's documentation, as part of the exchange of letters related to the matter, that the Financial Supervision Commission as the competent supervisory authority of all banks in Poland, which are subject to the Financial Supervision Commission, concluded that all other possibilities were exhausted. Of course, this will certainly be a topic for discussion, which may appear, as Mrs Skowrońska said, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, but generally the Financial Supervision Committee has made it clear that there are no other options for its supervisory activities to protect this bank from bankruptcy. This is clearly stated in writing. Therefore, of course, there is always a question, and I understand what to do... And this is an extremely legal issue, because we have a run-in procedure that's covered by secrecy. It is a secret to decide that the bank has been subject to compulsory restructuring. There is no way to tell this to customers, citizens, because it would be a violation of a legally protected secret, which would simply be punishable by imprisonment for breaching professional secrecy. Therefore, it is not possible to protect customers, to reveal that this bank is a problem. This was indeed the case in this case. As long as the bank... Please note that as regards those tenders which were announced by local authorities, at that time the bank was convinced that it was functioning well and therefore participated in the tenders. The local government decided to serve this bank. This is not the fault of many self-governments, which the Public Procurement Act limits to this extent. This is actually a real problem and at the same time it's kind of a clue. The point is not to be convicted, I mean. in order to be able to anticipate different situations in the context of decisions taken by the local government. But you can also say that it is hard to blame self-government. Please note, even if there was even such information that a bank had a problem, it is clearly stated in the Public Procurement Act that the local government cannot simply set up an account in another bank overnight. This is also a legal framework which, of course, needs to be analysed in terms of the functioning of the local government and the rigour of the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, there are indeed these problems. We know how the Public Procurement Act works. She, and this is also a problem, operates within the scope of the European legal framework. The point is, it's not our idea, so to speak. All these rigors aren't national. This is certainly a problem. As far as local authorities are concerned, what I can say, confirm, is that I will try within the framework of the legal framework, within the framework of what is the law in Poland, analyze all possibilities related to the support of local governments, liquidity, provision of funds, early payment of funds that are simply due to local governments, within the framework of the Ministry of Finance's activities, so that they can have regular contact and respond regularly to the information that the local government will present, because there was indeed a lot of these accounts. If we have a specific local government unit, it's not just one account in a particular bank, but it's often this. Also the school bill, the hospital, very often these are the accounts of other units that are within this local government. For this reason, indeed, those amounts that are publicly reported consist of this sum of different accounts and there are quite a lot of those accounts, there are several hundred that are just, as I know, including the bank. Therefore, there may be dozens, more than 30, but actually there are much more accounts. Friday is the day that, as far as I know, your voivode has arranged for another meeting. Self-governments will identify the losses on each account. This resolution procedure - it is worth remembering this - is that if these funds from local governments were not enough, because it is necessary to redeem value on the basis of an estimated loss, if these funds from local governments were not, another category, a group of entities to whom this would have been surrendered in part or in full, there would have been overgwarants, i.e. small companies that place their funds there. It's there, so to speak. It's a mechanism. If these measures had not been available, there would have been an obligation to redeem a specific amount regardless of how much funds the local authorities have in their accounts, and the next step would have been to cancel out small companies, taking into account, of course, this limit of 100,000. The euro, because here the guarantee is complete. Therefore, this procedure and some of the resources of the local government were saved and the funds of all the small companies that are located there were more than 100,000. The euro of small enterprises (the bell), micro-enterprises were thus protected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak again asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u193	I don't know why you're applauding me. After all, local governments lose 43%. The funds you mentioned here, on the accounts, Minister. Losing? They're losing. They're losing what was on the accounts. We're talking about the future situation that you're declaring you're gonna transfer the subsidy before you do, and you're not gonna let it get to payment congestion. The problem with the functioning of the local government is not about payment congestion, because it is already the bankruptcy of the local government, while there are commitments, there are tenders settled, there are EU expenditures, there are commitments to these funds, there are collected money for municipal services, etc., etc. It's all gone, 43%. The funds are gone. And this is a drama for local governments that are not in the best financial position. I understand here the efforts and the powerlessness of the law, because what the Minister said is also powerlessness. The law on public procurement itself, the financial system itself and practically self-government stands against the wall and today loses its resources.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Skiba again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we are dealing with the problems of local governments. It's worth remembering. Surely the intention of the government is to do everything possible in this situation to support local governments to find all the solutions that the law allows. Nobody cares about these problems of the local government creating some kind of domino effect, that we are dealing with later problems with the implementation of specific policies related to 500+, policies that are simply implemented by local governments on behalf of their residents, but also with the support of the government. Therefore, there is a full declaration that, as far as possible, these steps that I have presented will already be taken, plus there is still an analysis in the context of a conversation with local governments to see, learn, hear what are the problems of local governments. Here is a very good activity, the activity of your voivodeship, which regularly meets with local governments, but, of course, from this perspective we can talk about the determination to support local authorities in this situation. Second thing. It is worth remembering that we operate within the limits of the law. Here, of course, the Member has rightly said so. Situations that have taken place are not situations in which someone wanted to do something unfavorable to local governments. It was a choice between bad and worse, wasn't it? The situation in which BFG and KNF are both present is a situation where a less bad solution was chosen from two solutions that are not the best. I'm sure none of us would want to be in a situation where they have to make the decisions to cancel out just 43%. funds, knowing that the alternative is to cancel 100% on accounts the resources of local governments. In fact, it is difficult in a convenient, easy way to explain this matter to local governments, because we know that each of these self-governments is actually obliged to run a lot of different cases and certainly the situation in which local governments find themselves is incredibly difficult. Therefore, what is important from the government is full support, full awareness that we are dealing with a situation that should be resolved together. I know the local authorities are talking to your voivod. In this respect it is - once again I confirm - a full declaration that the government will not be passive in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u196	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. The question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Grzegorz Lorek and Zbigniew Dolat from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and it concerns the fight against African swine fever. The first question is asked by two Members - Andrzej Gawron and Grzegorz Lorek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Practically every meeting with farmers raises the issue of African swine fever. Farmers want to know more about the government's actions on this matter. Some farmers have set themselves completely on pig farming, indebting the farm, sometimes taking a big loan, and now they have concerns about their future. In the context of these discussions, there is always a theme of reducing wild boars or finding dead boars and disposals. Unfortunately, the problem arose in 2014, it was a small fire and then it didn't work quickly, like for example. in the Czech Republic, where these bonfires were eliminated through the sanitary zone, the wild boars were shot away. Now we have a much worse problem, a more difficult problem, because there are more of these fires. I would ask for detailed information on what action is being taken on this issue - reduction of boars, bioinsurance. You may yet have an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u198	The fight against African swine fever is a multi-range task. One possibility to carry the plague is the transport of pigs. Denmark, as one of the first countries, has undertaken a procedure for disinfection of trucks at the border of its country. Each manure-dirty car does not allow all transport into Denmark. Minister, is the Ministry of Agriculture considering introducing a similar procedure at the borders of our country? This is very important due to the transfer of pathogens and this would reduce the flow of this disease between borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen have asked questions when we will all receive them, because this is a national, national task, especially required of the government to implement it. We are on the eve of the situation, we are several dozen hours away from it, in which we will have multiple possibilities to act on basically all levels of the fight against ASF, with a particular emphasis on the necessity in this section, for which the European Union - and the common experience, our already several years old, and therefore daily - indicates that the primary task is to reduce the population of boars. I am talking and thinking, of course, about a law that we can already call the Law of 20 December 2019 to amend certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. How does it bring a breakthrough? In that it describes and creates new institutions, i.e. new opportunities, in the form of wild boar shot off in a specific area, by order of the voivode, at the request of a voivodship veterinarian, by means of a regulation, on the basis of animal health regulations and the fight against infectious diseases. It introduces an institution that has not yet been sanctioned, with a task such as participation in hunting and sanitation. In one version and with one task, an ad hoc task force may be formed, because that is what it is legally called, with the powers to hunt police officers, border guards officers, state fire marshals or, in another variant, soldiers. This permit shall be made available to the voivode, at his request, by the appropriate minister, either the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, or the Minister of National Defence. This is where it's decided that a medical order is a voivodeship order. I am specifically talking about such specifics, because they illustrate just a breakthrough, other, excellent, more possibilities. The regulation of the voivodship shall be issued at the request of a voivodship veterinarian. He must motivate this decision as to the necessity of such a regulation, including the establishment of the area covered by the firing, the number of boars and other parameters of such firing, such a reduction. It is also recommended that this type of decision, the start of administrative procedures, be preceded by a discussion at the meeting of the voivodship crisis management team, which, as you know, is subject to the voivodship. And then the voivodeship's motion, as I have already mentioned, is addressed to the appropriate minister - national defence or home affairs and administration. There are, of course, certain ways in which task forces work. Where they are multi-formative, i.e. they consist of police officers, State Fire and Border Guard officers, they shall be commanded by an officer designated by the commander at the appropriate level, that is, the area for which the specific commander, the specific organizational unit of the Police take responsibility. In the case of the army, this officer shall be designated by the appropriate commander appropriate to the place of operation. There's a few more things you could say. I think that's the chance you're gonna give me for extra questions. On the other hand, on the issues raised in the second Member's question, I would like to say that in the case of bio-insurance, this law also highlights the role of bio-insurance in these activities, i.e. with regard to hunters. I'm gonna go over some specific questions. It is that we have concrete possibilities at such borders that are real borders. There are mats everywhere - at borders with Russia, Ukraine, Belarus. In agreement with the KAS, with the National Tax Administration, under our proper emphasis on veterinary services... We demand very effective control of the transport of food, let's call it home processed ways. And it's very effective. I'm sure it illustrates the problem, too. Only last year and only in relation to the Podkarpackie voivodship at these borders, which were burdened with round trips, 38 t of such samples of products and other such food confections (the bell), which may potentially contain, carry such dangers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u201	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zbigniew Dolata now asks an additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u202	Thank you very much, Marshal. I also thank the Minister for these explanations. I would just like to ask how these actions of the Polish government are assessed internationally, by the EU institutions, by EFSA, by the European Commission, maybe also by the governments of the individual countries concerned by the ASF problem. I ask you, Minister, for a possible answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u203	Thank you kindly. Contrary to what is heard from opposition circles, from circles of environmentalists, people who are unkind of effective government action, simply because they are effective, we have full compliance with the methods of fighting ASF in Poland, especially with regard to this method most effective and recommended as the most important. Here we are dealing with a situation where we are carrying out such a triad of consistent actions in relation to the location of these actions in a hierarchical order. The European Commission, the EFSA, which gives judgments and recommendations in the fields of science and values, scientific recommendations, has ruled, we are completely applying this, that the most important way in the current conditions, after recognising all of this, is to reduce the population of wild boars. The second place is to eliminate dead, dead boars. There's bio-insurance on the third. Except all these three actions in terms of optimity, the need to do in these three areas of everything that can be done, are equal to each other. However, there is a hierarchy in the impact assessment of the action aimed at eliminating ASF in a specific area as soon as possible. It is absolutely clear that the reduction of the wild boar population is the most important action. We accumulate in this bill all positive experiences, all the effective experiences of the four countries that have achieved success in fighting ASF, preventively. This was done by Germany and France by shooting off or reducing the population of boars of well over 1 million in each country. There's no ASF out there right now, and I hope there's no ASF out there because the ASF out there wouldn't have anything to meet with. There is no material that was ASF reproduced. Of course, we also consume these successes, which were the participation of the Czechs, often mentioned, and the Belgians. They in a limited area, fenced off everything that was related to ASF. We have now done the same with the Lubuskie voivodship. Lightning, within 3 days, there was a fence, a very strong fence (The Bell), at least 36 km of fence, where almost everything that was there had already been removed. These tasks, which the law allows to carry out effectively, are such activation of all positive experiences, most importantly, effective, what the Czechs, Belgians, Germany and the French have experienced before us. This bill makes it perfectly possible to follow their footsteps effectively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Aleksander Mishalski, Mirosław Suchoń and Katarzyna Lubnauer from the Civic Coalition ask about possible abuses in the disposal of funds from the CBA operational fund. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! For the past few days, information has been emerging in the media area about the fraud of operational funds at the Central Anti-corruption Office. This is another issue of the PiS government revealed by the media, another abuse. According to reports from the office's cash register, it was supposed to disappear from PLN 5 million to PLN 15 million. This appropriation was intended to cover covert operations of the Central Anti-corruption Office and was intended to be carried out by the official responsible for clearing this fund. As the Minister of Justice stated at the conference, proceedings are under way in this case. On the other hand, it is significant that just during the week in which the Parliamentary Committee on Special Services debated the CBA budget, two directors of key organisational units, i.e. the Head of Finance and the Head of Internal Security, were released from the office. We continue to learn from these reports that Mr Ernest Beid's head of CBA, in the light of these findings, was to resign to the special services coordinator of Minister Mariusz Kaminski - but this resignation was to be rejected - although on 11 July 2019 only half a year ago, Mr Ernest Beida, CBA's chief, argued that the alleged loss was the result of a misunderstanding. In view of this chaos that exists in the field of special services - we all realise that it is very negative for confidence in this area of functioning of the State, for the possibility of properly carrying out the tasks entrusted by law - please answer the questions: First, has any amount of funds been lost in the CBA cashier? Secondly, why were the directors of the Finance and Security Department (the Bell) fired? Is it true that Mr. Beida, CBA's boss, tried to resign from his duties? Who is responsible if these measures have actually been embezzled? If the CBA has been embezzled, what action will you take to avoid similar situations in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u206	Thank you. Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to refer to it. I also read the media publications that appeared, and if we can talk about any chaos, it's not chaos in the services, it's informational chaos - just to be clear. But I understand the interest in the subject of these publications and I wanted to reassure you. In connection with these media publications and the interest that emerged, CBA's head, Mr Ernest Bejda, as far as I know, has submitted comprehensive written information to the Service Committee in a classified form. I wanted to stress that in a classified form, because this is the place where this type of information should be adopted and where all matters relating to the services are dealt with. It's a committee with representatives of all the clubs, including the club where you're sitting, and I think even the chairman of the party where you're in. He received from Mr. Bejda in my assessment a comprehensive information on this media noise that appeared. I would like to emphasise one more thing, because this is the result of the communication that gave the office: the CBA has not lost any financial resources. [[Applause]] That is all I can say on this matter, because of course we are in a public hearing, and the information on this subject, I stress, Minister Beida has provided in secret form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u208	Thank you very much. The additional question is also asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, It's hard to consider the information you've provided, especially since it doesn't actually explain anything. It is also difficult to assess the information that you have provided, or rather the lack of information and the reference to the secret of the services, other than as an attempt to avoid answering this question and possibly conceal the facts related to these irregularities, especially since our questions concerned things that are public and accessible. As for Mr. Bejda's resignation, it is a fact present in public space. Therefore, it is probably not a secret whether or not this resignation has taken place. Secondly, if two key vertical directors have left, this is also a fact (the Bell) in public space. We expect these explanations to be presented to the House because this is a very important area for the functioning of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Wąsik again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Don't get me to do anything that's against the law. I cannot give any classified information in plenary, under conditions of transparency. We're not talking about classified, Minister. If the information which Minister Beida has provided to the Service Commission is classified, it shall be classified. The author of this information shall decide on the secret clause. The information I am aware of shows that Minister Bejda has not resigned, but I would like to remind you that this is a term of office for 4 years. No longer than two terms can perform this function. That's all I can tell you, and that's the information that's in the Central Corruption Bureau Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Marek Matuszewski, Grzegorz Matusiak and Barbara Bartus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask questions about financial resources for the Łódź voivodship for restoring tram lines. Mr Matuszewski is the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The inhabitants of Zgierz and Konstantinów Łódzki are pleased that thanks to the support of the Government of Law and Justice and the Management Board of the Łódź Voivodeship, funds were obtained for the modernisation of tram line 45 to Zgierz and tram line 43 to Konstantynów Łódzkie. Restoring trams is extremely important for the local community, because smaller towns of the Łódź agglomeration are connected to Łódź, which allows for quick and efficient transport. to work, schools and universities. The tram is an eco-friendly means of transport. This is an important aspect of clean air these days. Minister! I would like to ask if, as part of the new EU perspective, we can count on funds to restore trams on line 46: Łódź - Ozorków and line 43B: Łódź - Lutomiersk? Also the tram line 44 between Łódź and Aleksandrów Łódź could be reactivated. A large part of the population demands this. Then the traffic between Łódź and Aleksandrów Łódź would finally be forgotten. The trams, especially the one to Lutomiersk, but also the one to Ozorkow, also served as tourist and landscape attractions. Even from England, tourists came to see them. Tram infrastructure, rails, traction, tram, without significant renovations can last up to 40 years. The tram is ecological and does not cause traffic, so you have to bet on the trams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u214	Thank you very much. He answers the question of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Grzegorz Puda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! You are, in fact, well known for your every concern for your district, just like every member of the House. You sought to restore the tram to Zgierz, Konstantinów Łódzkie. And I think that just now this question comes out as if the need to continue this subject, for which I thank you very much. Every question on the local issue is very important to us, because in fact EU funds serve residents not only central part of Poland, but also towns outside the capital. In answer to this question, there are two aspects to be said. The first aspect is how we can inform you of what is happening in the negotiations with the European Union, and the second one is more local and I think I will start with it. It's based on art. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (3) (a) The Management Board of the Łódzkie Voivodship has the resources of the state budget for part of the national contribution to projects carried out under the Regional Operational Programme of the Łódzkie Voivodship for the years 2014-2020, other than revitalization projects referred to in Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (3) (a) a The territorial contract for the Łódź voivodship, and other than public university projects, scientific units implemented by these entities under investment priority 1a or investment priority 10a. Speaking in a very simplified language, here really the local government, or more specifically, the local government of the Łódź region, has the opportunity to allocate such funds to the investment you were talking about. The Management Board of the Łódzkie Voivodship has autonomously these measures, which is quite important, and determines for which projects carried out under the Regional Operational Programme of the Łódzkie Voivodship intends to allocate funds from the state budget referred to above, and then requests permission from the Ministry. We are the Ministry responsible for regional development and it so happens that the Minister responsible for regional development takes the decision only at the request of the Management Board of the Łódź Voivodship. According to the information we have, as at 20 January 2020, the Management Board of the Łódź Voivodship has the resources from the state budget referred to above, amounting to about PLN 48 million. These measures may be contracted after prior approval of the Minister responsible for regional development has been obtained. At the same time, at this point it is worth to say that the Management Board of the Łódź Voivodship, recognising the high needs of low-carbon urban transport, carried out in the framework of the mid-term review of the relocation of RPO funds for action 3.1.: Low-carbon urban transport. The total amount of appropriations increased to this measure is now more than EUR 14 million. Now changes to the RP are subject to the European Commission's acceptance process, the decision of which should take place at the beginning of 2020. In conclusion and in response to the question of the Member, I would like to inform you that if, after the European Commission has accepted the amendment to the RPO, the Management Board of the Łódź Region decides to implement the tram investments requested by the Member State, and asks our Ministry in the context of the state budget, this agreement will be given. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u216	Thank you, Minister. Additional question - Mr Marek Matuszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u217	Minister! The tram line 46 from Łódź to Ozorkow was the longest tram line in Poland - more than 16 km long - and the second in Europe. In 2022, we would have celebrated the 100th anniversary of this line. Due to the length of the line 46 its modernization is over PLN 200 million. Also the tram line to Lutomierska is also a significant length, and therefore a large cost. Due to the significant costs of modernising these two tram lines, local authorities may not be able to afford the entire financial contribution which lies on their side. Will the Ministry consider this so that appropriate instruments can be used for financial contributions and that local authorities can afford financial participation in these tram projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u218	Thank you, sir. Minister! We will be curious to hear whether the Minister will consider the proposal of the Member. Fingers crossed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this proposal, as many other proposals that affect us, will also be considered. As far as the answer to the second part of this question is concerned, I think that the first part of the speech has largely exhausted the subject, but it is still worth adding information on how much money we can talk about right now. Well, we're on the eve of a new financial perspective, 2021 and 2027, and we're really preparing for this new perspective today. Although information on the volume of funds will, of course, be crucial in the decisions, it will certainly be a matter of support for the development of public transport, including those tram lines that you are clearly talking about, which will be one of the priority ones on which the proposal will affect us. It is also worth pointing out in this point that the most important conditions that will be taken into account when programming a new perspective in this area are new, we assume, a smaller volume of European Union funds, a lower level of investment funding. Talks are going on, it's really hard to talk about any numbers or numbers. And in the case of investments in urban transport, I have to say that zero-carbon, greener, greener solutions play an important role and the planned cooperation between municipalities in existing functional solutions. Most of the time, we want to supplement the offer that the municipalities are already proposing today. At the moment, the work of the working group within our Ministry for the preparation of the intervention of the new financial perspective of the European Union for the period 2021 to 2027 is also discussed in the framework of the allocation of funds between the operational programmes managed by the programme and by the national and regional programmes to prevent double funding. It is quite important from the point of view that we know that these measures will be passed on in a slightly different way than before. In the case of urban transport, it is proposed that the breakdown of interventions be based on the size of cities and their location. However, really crucial information to take final solutions will be the volume of resources allocated to this direction of intervention. So that, in replying to the Member once again, if such a proposal is affected, of course, like many other proposals, we will also look at it and we will be able to respond after we know what volume of these funds will remain for this kind of solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr President, good news for you. The Minister will consider your proposal and think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, Arkadiusz Marchewka, Artur Łącki and Sławomir Nitras, representing the Civic Coalition, will ask a question about the critical situation of ST3 Offshore in the context of the company's application for bankruptcy. This question will be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf he will answer - under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers - the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts, Minister Zbigniew Gryglas, whom we warmly welcome. I am also personally interested in this discussion, because the same question - when I was driving last month - was asked by Dariusz Wieczorek. I wonder if anything's changed in a month. We'll find out. There you go, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. You have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u221	Thank you kindly, Marshal. I would add that last week, last Friday, also at the meeting of the West Pomeranian Parliamentary Group, we discussed together this very pressing problem for the Szczecin economy and the whole Western Pomerania. Minister! The situation of ST3 Offshore is critical. You could say that the company is standing over the abyss. It is an entity that was a symbol of the modern industry of Western Pomerania, an entity that was supposed to carry out construction activities for offshore wind farms. In 2017, through the MARS fund, the State took over a majority stake in this company, assuming and announcing an improvement in the situation, its activities, because it was already in quite difficult condition. Last year, before the parliamentary elections, the involvement of the Industrial Development Agency was also announced in a difficult situation, paying almost PLN 40 million to the deposit, which would allow the creditors to repay, among others. private companies that cooperated with ST3. Just after the new year, this arrangement between creditors and the company was cancelled because the Industrial Development Agency withdrew money from the deposit. We are after a very difficult meeting - which took place last Friday - in terms of conclusions, because the crew representatives are talking about a very bad situation. I know that the company has no money to pay out for January, no money to repay creditors and no money to operate on the day-to-day (The bell). There are now more than 300 people working there, so the basic question is: Who decided to take over most of the shares in the company by the State Treasury and on the basis of what analyses? That's one thing. Second: Why did the Industrial Development Agency withdraw from this decision and from those actions which it announced almost a year ago, and on what basis did it decide to enter the project at all? And the last question is, what is the scenario of the continued operation of ST3 anyway, Minister? Does the owner, or Treasury, foresee the bankruptcy of the company with its liquidation and sale of the entire assets? Do you have an idea of rebuilding and restructuring this company, and what will be the nearest future for it? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u222	Thank you very much. Minister. At the same time, I inform Mr Łącki that I am taking half a minute from your additional question because you added a minute. There you go. Such an important matter, Mr. Marshal, you yourself admitted it. Couldn't you take Mr. Nitras away if he's not here? Sir, honesty must be everywhere no matter what the party colors are. Minister, your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As the marshal mentioned, a month ago I spoke in detail about the causes of this very complex and difficult situation in ST3. Let me remind you, at the time I emphasized that these reasons are really at the beginning of this company's existence. Let me remind you once again that the investment cost initially planned for about 50 million has been doubled. From the outset, the first contracts that were concluded by the company have suffered enormous losses. One most important contract with a foreign entity - about EUR 10 million. During this period, the management of the company was mainly influenced by a foreign entity which had an 80% share of the company's share capital. You ask why the industry development agency and state entities have decided to assume responsibility for the company. It is precisely in the sense of responsibility for the crew, for a project that gives great hopes for the development of the region over a period of several years, for the development of this activity as well, but we must wait until then. This investment boom, which we expect on the Polish Baltic Sea, and we want our companies to participate as much as possible in it, will be waiting for us in a few years. It is about 2024, perhaps the end of 2023, if everything goes well in this regard. Why did the industry development agency withdraw from this process? The Agency must also ensure that public investment is rational. This is our public money. In the absence of consensus in the case of the real programme proposed by the Agency, it presented to the creditors and the court, there was no other way out of this plan. In addition, an important element was that the private investor test failed. We know that State Treasury companies have their hands tied when it comes to granting public aid. They have to conduct a private investor test. In short, these measures must be rationally spent. What scenario do we anticipate for this entity? We do not give up the thought of using this valuable property, which is located in this precious location, the skills of our employees, which are extremely important to us. This concept, which I was also talking about a month ago, is still valid. It's about leasing property and continuing business. There are two contracts that give hope for a transition to this difficult stage and a continuation of activity. How did the formal state change during this month? Mr. Marshal, your fellow Members, this situation has changed little. We have a decision by the court to set a trial date for a request to cancel the restructuring procedure on 25 February. It's quite a long time, given such a complicated situation, but we have no influence on the court's decision. The Court of First Instance called on the Management Board to remedy the deficiencies. This main element, the main lack, is the presentation of the valuation of the company's real estate by a comparative method. This is the state of affairs today. Once again, I would like to stress: the intention of the government is to keep these jobs and continue our activities so that, as part of the big investment project on the Polish Baltic, we can involve national companies as closely as possible, so that they are suppliers of products and provide services for offshore wind energy. Thank you. Are we gonna sell the company?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u224	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki. Because the Minister has cut back on time, give it to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A little bit of that answer is to say a little bit, not very satisfying, because then you don't know what it is now. I would just like to remind the Minister that there are more than 320 people working there right now. And now the crew knows he won't get his salary for January. About PLN 50 million is the company's debt to 400 creditors. These are small and medium-sized enterprises from Poland, mainly from the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. Remember, too, that at least half of these employees, half of these creditors, looking at the statistics, are your voters. Minister! State-owned company ST Thank you, sir. This is a tragedy, Minister. There's no answer: we're gonna do something. Now I ask you to answer whether this money will be given to the crew, or whether this money will be returned to the creditors.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u226	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! Membership! I explained in detail the reasons for this situation. It is not the state entities that are responsible for the errors in the management of this entity. Then why did you buy it? It is not the state-owned companies who are responsible for the management costs, which amounted to millions of zlotys. You bought this four years ago. This country, in fact, has led to a situation where this company was wrongly constructed on a very bad basis. The Polish state, although it invested a lot of money in this entity, had no control over it. Why did you invest? What about the crew? Once again, I stress: the government's intention is to protect jobs, it is to lease and continue this activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] When? How much?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u228	Thank you very much. I wouldn't dare sum anything up as a vice marshal, but nothing has changed in a month. And nothing's gonna change. Nothing. Zero. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Mr Jarosław Gonciarz, Mr Jerzy Polaczek and Mr Jarosław Krajewski, representing the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, wanted to ask a question about the safety of pedestrian transitions. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr Rafał Weber, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Infrastructure. Let's start with the question. We share time. We begin with Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The duration of the day changes with the time of year. And so during the winter there are more accidents on roads for a trivial reason: when you return home after working outside it is simply dark. First of all, we have to take care of pedestrians. Today, many questions about citizens' budgets are about increasing road safety and increasing pedestrian safety. The inhabitants themselves are looking for this element of accident prevention. Most pedestrian accidents occur after dark. Most of the time there's just no proper lighting on the crossings. Appropriate signage of transitions and proper lighting gives drivers the chance to see the person passing and react in the right way and in the right time. Nothing can replace the driver's caution, but it is not always the driver's fault in such cases. Are there projects to increase safety at pedestrian crossings and what are these projects? What public budget will be used to increase pedestrian safety? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I also wanted to ask if there are projects to support the pedestrian safety uniforms and what are the projects and are there government prevention programmes to increase pedestrian safety? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u232	I'd like to invite the Minister. And welcome, by the way, hi.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u233	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Thank you very much for raising the safety issue, especially in the context of the safety of vulnerable road users, because the more we discuss it, the more we talk about road safety issues, the more public awareness and the greater understanding of the subject and in our assessment of compliance with the law, and that is what we care most about. As regards questions directly related to pedestrian crossings and pedestrian safety, I must stress that this is a topic which is particularly important for the Ministry of Infrastructure and for many years we have been taking intensive action to reduce the number of tragic road events. I may even allow myself some summary of the investment activities that have been carried out during the last period, this last term by the Government of Law and Justice, by the Ministry of Infrastructure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, from November 2015 to January 2020 we have signed a total of over 890 programmes of investment for road tasks on the existing network of national roads. These are tasks carried out by the state budget worth more than PLN 14 billion. These are different types of tasks, ranging from comprehensive changes to safety and bypasses, through point tasks, including emergency tasks, such as securing strokes or improving dehydration. Within the framework of the above actions and targets focused on improving safety at a given location, and not on the whole road, there are currently more than 450 projects worth more than PLN 1 billion. As part of these tasks we carry out reconstruction of intersections, construction of left-hand turners, construction of roundabouts, construction of pavements, cycling paths, walking-bike paths, construction of bus bays, lighting of walkways, construction of bridges, assembly of road signs. After all, this is all the work of creating a secure infrastructure that allows for a sense of safety, especially for vulnerable road users. I would like to assure you that these investment tasks will also be carried out in this term of office. We are in the process of preparing the project, the "Safe Infrastructure" programme, which will be dedicated specifically to this. It's about lighting the walkways, i.e. those places that are a potential threat to pedestrians. As regards the next questions that have been raised, cooperation with local authorities, cooperation with the police. Of course, these actions are being implemented all the time... I'm sorry. As far as cooperation with local authorities is concerned, we also want this infrastructure to be built on municipal and district roads. The Self-Government Road Fund is the ideal tool that is used to strengthen road infrastructure, also in the context of pavement construction, walking-bike paths, roundabouts and other elements of the BRD. I know that these tasks receive the highest scores in committees that operate at voivodships, voivodships, and then receive funding under the Self-Government Road Fund. So their task has more road safety-related elements, the greater the opportunity to obtain financial support from the Roads Fund. As regards cooperation with the police or the impact of the police or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration on improving the safety of pedestrian transitions, I would like to stress, about the program which is run by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. A programme to reduce crime and anti-social behaviour together with safe behaviour. Władysław Stasiak. The programme in 2017 included funding for 31 projects. PLN 1.5 million has been allocated for this purpose. By the end of 2017, 160 pedestrian crossings were modernised. In 2018 47 projects were co-financed, under which 143 pedestrian transitions were modernised and for this purpose 3 million PLN were allocated in 2018. As far as 2019 is concerned, 47 projects have been co-financed and 145 pedestrian transitions have been modernised and another PLN 3 million have been allocated to these projects. So that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration under the programme is safer together with them. Władysław Stasiak, the Minister's name, is also carrying out projects to improve road safety. I will also mention our legislative action. Those that have already been taken concern zipper rides and the creation of a corridor of life, so that the servants can get to the wounded more quickly, to those who need help. But it is also about these legislative actions in the near future, i.e. those concerning priority for pedestrians, the unification of speed (the bell) at night to that speed, which is valid between hours. 5 a.m. 23 in a built-up area and the retention of a driving licence to those who exceed the permitted speed by more than 50 km/h in an unbuilt area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have an additional question: Are there projects for pedestrian crossings addressed to the youngest ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u236	Here's the second question, sir, because you have a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u237	Maybe I'll ask you to support the government by the Ministry. Local governments are starting to implement their programmes, such as the Safe Cities Programme, which aims to identify areas of the city that require increased security. These programs are also supported by city road management, City Guard, Police. And here I wanted to ask the Ministry for support for local governments in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u238	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u239	This support can be provided under the Self-Government Road Fund. Local governments are responsible for the organisation of road traffic which they supervise, i.e. municipalities are responsible for municipal roads, powiats for district roads, voivodships for voivodship lines, and can implement such tools, implement such investments that contribute to road safety. On the basis of the Road Road Fund, municipalities and powiats can obtain funding for these road safety tasks. Such tasks are welcome. As I said, they are evaluated above in this hierarchy, which is created by a committee in voivodships, and they can simply obtain, have a better chance of obtaining financial support under the Fund for Roads of Local Government, and competition is still very large, even though the funds under this programme are far more than before. The need of self-government is also very much. It is not every need that we are able to satisfy, so the better the project, the more leaning on road safety, the more likely it is to be financed. Of course, educational activities aimed at the youngest are also carried out. Special activity here shows inspections of road transport. Our inspectors in all branches do not avoid meetings in schools, do not avoid meetings in kindergartens, conduct educational activities with the youngest. That's what I call it. learning through fun, i.e. such inculcation of correct attitudes from the very beginning, since youth signaling correct behaviour for both pedestrians and for those who are going to ride bicycles in the future, and such people in Poland are getting more and more. I will also mention only the action which is addressed to seniors, i.e. people over 60 years old. This activity is subject to the National Road Safety Council. We have Secretary Konrad Romik, the Director, with whom I would like to thank all the council staff, all the members of the board and all those who care about road safety on a daily basis. It is extremely important to us. The number of road accidents has been decreasing for many years, the number of injuries has decreased. We hope that there will also be a fall in the victims from this year, because here, I admit, we have been holding back the downward trend for 2 years, but I hope that these legislative and investment actions, which we will implement in 2020, will contribute to the fact that the victims of accidents on Polish roads will be even less. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u240	Thank you, Minister. Stay with us, or the next question will be for you, too. Members of Jerzy Bielecki, Tomasz Zieliński, Sławomir Skwarek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the progress of the construction of express roads S19 Rzeszów - Lublin - Białystok, S17 Sands - Hrebenne, S12 Sands - Dorohusk and the A2 motorway. This is a question to the Minister of Infrastructure, on whose behalf Minister Rafał Weber will speak, as we already know in the previous part. Please, Mr Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, information appeared in the press that the construction of express roads located in Lublin Voivodeship was threatened: S19 Rzeszów - Lublin - Białystok, S17 Sands - Hrebenne, S12 Sands - Dorohusk, A2 motorway Siedlce - Kukuryki. The media reports show that due to the lack of sufficient financial resources or the problem with contractors, the deadlines for the construction of these sections may be significantly delayed in relation to the national road and motorway construction programme for the years 2014 and 202023. The question therefore arises: Is the planned implementation of the above mentioned. Is the episodes in any way at risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u242	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In April 2019 three tenders were decided for the development of the concept of construction of the S17 expressway on the Piaski-Hrebenne route with the second thread of the Tomaszów Lubelski ring road for a length of approx. 120 km. I will stress that the construction of the S17 road is one of the most important investments in the Lublin Voivodeship, and for its southern part - one of the main conditions for the proper development of the region and attracting potential investors. I therefore ask the following questions: Is the planned deadline for the development of this concept and the announcement of the tender in the form of a design and construction procedure not threatened? Does the planned concept include an increase in the number of access belts to the Hrebenne border crossing point and the border crossing point itself? Because today we have the so-called. Narrow throat, queues sometimes stretch for several kilometers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u244	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! High Izbo! The title of this question itself shows how much is happening on Polish roads, especially in south-eastern Poland, but also north-eastern Poland. We are talking here about the construction of the Via Carpatia route, which is a strategic project. It can be said that for the Government of Law and Justice it is a flagship road project. We are talking about the S17 expressway from Sands to Hrebenny, and I remind you that the S17 expressway from Lublin to Kołbiela is already available to users. Getting from the capital of Lublin to the capital of our country is already much faster and easier. We are also talking about the expressway on the section S12 Sand - Dorohusk and the section of the eastern A2 motorway. So that the question itself shows the scale of the measures that have been involved in these investment projects. Excuse me, I got the wrong card. Minister! We will wait a while, although I think the Members asking questions thought you had everything in your head. But no, they're smiling, so everything's okay. We'll give you plenty of time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Excuse me, I took another card. Don't get stressed. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thus, with regard to the S19, the whole road is budgeted and this decision was taken in July 2017 with an increase in the limit relating to the national road construction programme. Until then, only the section between Rzeszow and Lublin was budgeted. On the other hand, from July 2017 the section between Lublin and Białystok and the south was also budgeted - between Rzeszow and the border of the province in Barwinek. As regards S19 in the Podlaskie voivodship, all sections of this road are currently at an early stage, such as preparatory work on obtaining the necessary administrative decisions and opinions required by law. As a result, environmental conditions for the Knyszyn - Dobrzyniewo - Białystok West and Białystok West - Ploski section were decided. Applications for such decisions were also submitted for sections of the state border - Sokółka and Ploski - Chlebczyn. These decisions are expected to be obtained within the coming months. On the other hand, with regard to the section between Sokółka and Białystok, environmental decisions are planned for the third quarter of 2020. As far as the area of Lublin Voivodeship is concerned, preparatory work is ongoing in the case of parts of sections. It is about this part from Lublin to the border with the Mazowieckie voivodship. In turn part from Lublin to Janowski Forests is at the stage of implementation by performers, and in preparation there are sections from the border of the voivodship by Lubartów to Lublin. As a result of the previous actions, a decision on environmental conditions for the section from the border of the voivodship to Lubartów was obtained. Also with regard to the section between Lubartow and Lublin, a decision on environmental conditions was obtained. With regard to the sections between Lublin and the border of Podkarpackie Voivodship, there are six stages of implementation. They're in the groundwork phase. We have information that despite the winter period, i.e. that there is a possibility of a contractual break which could last from 15 December to 15 March, the contractors are still in the building area, carrying out their work, which is where nothing bad happens. The completion of this section, i.e. from the border of Lublin Voivodships from Podkarpackie to Lublin, is expected to take place in the third quarter of 2021. So that this media information, which Mr Bielecki referred to, has absolutely no confirmation in the facts, does not have any confirmation in the actual state of play of these tasks. They are implemented according to schedule, as planned, we do not have disturbing information related to contractors. As far as Podkarpackie Voivodeship is concerned, all six sections from Rzeszow to the border with Lublin Voivodeship are also in the implementation phase. There are already two land works, while the other four are waiting for the investment decision to be made, i.e. the so-called. ZRID. As far as the S12 and S17 expressways are concerned, as I said, the budgeting was set out in 2017, the preparatory work on the development of the documentation (the Bell) and the necessary administrative decisions are currently underway. As a result, a decision was obtained on environmental conditions for the entire S12 expressway and for most of the S17 expressway, here the exception are two sections of this route, Łopiennik - Krasnystaw and Sitaniec - Zamość, for which new environmental decisions will be obtained. The announcement of tender procedures for the selection of contractors of these particular sections S12 and S17 is currently envisaged at the end of the future, i.e. 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u246	Thank you, Minister. You'll see if you can find out after an additional question. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, please, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm just gonna go over some of my colleagues' questions. Please provide information on the date of placing into service the so-called. Lubelska node connecting A2 with the S17 built on this section. The second part of my question concerns investment progress on the next four sections from the Lublin junction to the state border. It is a total of 147 km of the proposed East-West motorway, Highway of Liberty. For residents of Eastern Poland it is the aorta of life, for people travelling to and from Warsaw, but above all for the depths of transport companies, such as my district of Łukow. And that is why I am surprised by the lack of a direct node, the name of it: Łukowski, connecting A2 with the national road No 63 Łuków - Siedlce. Please state the reasons for the absence of such a node in writing (the bell), but I remain with faith and hope that this can be changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u248	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u249	In the case of sections of the A2 motorway from Warsaw to the eastern border of the state, I inform you that the financial limit of the National Road Construction Programme, which was agreed in 2015, i.e. for the previous power, was insufficient to carry out all these tasks. As I mentioned, in 2017, this limit was increased, but it does not cover the entire missing section, i.e. from Warsaw to the border of the voivodship. At the moment we have provided funding for the implementation of the section between Minsk Mazowiecki and Biała Podlaska, we have launched tenders for the implementation of the section between Ryczłek and Siedlce - tender procedures are currently being settled for this section. Literally on January 10 we met the performers for all stages of implementation between Minsk Mazowiecki and Siedlce, and on January 20, literally a few days ago, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways indicated the most advantageous offer for one of the sections between Kałuszyn node and Groszka node - this section is 12 km long. In addition, there are sections of Lubelska without a junction to Konik with a junction and Konik without a junction to Minsk Mazowiecki. In 2020, i.e. this year, the above sections are planned to be put into service. As far as the remaining sections of the A2 motorway are concerned, an environmental decision has been obtained and work is currently underway on the development of technical documentation. We have signed agreements with design documentation contractors for all sections to the state border. As far as the last episode, the White Podlaska section, the border with Belarus, is a section which at the moment does not have financial assurance, but we want the entire motorway programme, including this section, to be completed by 2025, i.e. the completion of the work would take place in 2025. I believe that once we have received the complete preparatory documentation, when we are ready to announce the tender for the Project and build, the funds will be allocated and such a tender will be carried out. We want the entire motorway program, including the A2 motorway in its entirety, to end in 2025, so that this network of high-speed roads becomes coherent and complete. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u250	Thank you very much. Minister, judging by the faces of the Members asking, you have satisfied them with their answers, so that I am pleased. Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm the information on the programme will be considered: the Small ZUS Plus, the package of friendly law and other facilitations for entrepreneurs, about which the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice brought the presentation. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers may be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. And I promise you, next time I'll learn all these formulas by heart. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The strongest economies of the world and the happiest societies have built their prosperity thanks to a high-quality partnership on the lines of public administration - entrepreneurs. On the basis of this partnership, the Government of Law and Justice has made a number of pro-entrepreneurial changes, both of a fundamental nature - by changing the fundamentals of the business system - as well as of a cross-cutting nature, addressing specific problems raised by entrepreneurs. By creating a new law that is friendly and systematically resolving the problems raised, the government shows that it is the partnership and its quality that is at the heart of the changes being made. The business constitution, which has been in force since April 2018, is the most serious reform in this field since 1989. It provides for adequate institutional protection for entrepreneurs, the appointment of a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Adam Abramowicz is in charge of this function. The Ombudsman shall act in matters relating to small and medium-sized enterprises, intervening in cases relating to them in courts and offices. Among the facilitations for entrepreneurs is the law - a zone in each municipality, enabling small local entrepreneurs to obtain income tax exemptions in the case of their investments. The programme has great interest, up to 80% investment support decisions are being issued to the small and medium-sized enterprises. Business Constitution has been developed, among others. Packages: 100 changes for companies, a package of small and medium-sized enterprises, a package of friendly law, solutions to tackle payment congestion and a small ZUS, and soon, in a few days, a small ZUS plus. New solutions, beneficial for entrepreneurs, come into force gradually from 1 January this year. The extended relief for paying ZUS will come into force from 1 February. This is another response from the Government of Law and Justice to the expectations of business people who can expand the range of entrepreneurs who will be able to pay lower contributions, as so far provided by the small Social Security Office, implemented since January 2019. The extension of the relief will benefit up to 320 thousand. smaller enterprises. Among the facilities dedicated to entrepreneurs is a package of friendly law. It shall consist of the right to make a mistake, i.e. the withdrawal by the authority of a penalty or a mandate to beginners. It's a particularly important record for this group. It is estimated that up to 300,000 will benefit from the right to make a mistake. entrepreneurs each year. And since 1 January, the expansion of the status of a small taxpayer has also been implemented. More entities can choose the quarterly payment of advances on PIT and CIT and use so-called. one-off depreciation, up to 50,000. Euros. The important solution is to reduce payment congestion, including the introduction of so-called "payment congestion." relief for bad debts in PIT and CIT. Today's facilitations are addressed to a wide range of consumers and have an impact on hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. They are the implementation of demands made by the world of business over recent years. They are the result of government cooperation and prove the appropriateness of cooperation and consistent setting of far-reaching objectives. They are due to the full awareness and huge role played by business people in our country. Without their participation it is impossible to further develop the economy, and consequently to strengthen Poland's position in Europe and in the world. The changes introduced are only part of a broader government strategy, consistently implemented since 2015. The measures taken so far indicate that the Ministry of Development is aware of the need to update the rules for the modern economic situation and seeks to amend them in order to improve the legal and institutional system in which entrepreneurs can feel safe and peaceful to develop their business. I kindly ask the Minister to present the practical side currently entering into force of the facilitations for entrepreneurs, their anticipated consequences and plans to support small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u252	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Mark Nieblużak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I'm gonna start with this... I will, of course, answer the questions as requested by the Member, but I would like to start with information not strictly on regulatory projects, but on data from the Polish economy. I mean. I would like to say, as if in support of or to highlight the situation in the Polish economy at present, that it is worth to realise that if we compare the average annual growth of Polish GDP between 2016 and 2019 with this in the period 2008 to 2015, we see the fundamental difference in plus. We have an average annual GDP growth of 4.3% over the period 2016-2019, which was on average over 1 percentage point lower. Last year we also close with more than 4%. These results would, of course, not be possible without Polish entrepreneurs. You must always be aware that this is, of course, their success. On the other hand, the role of the State is certainly to try to create a legal framework in which entrepreneurs operate and which is as friendly as possible to them. This is the aim of the changes that you have already had the opportunity to talk about. I have a task to clarify a few things, also to tell you about the next plans, as you wished. If we are talking about the concrete benefits of these projects that have been accepted in the last term of office, in the last term, I think it is worth giving even a few of these data. Let's start with the fact that just one of the basic solutions from the business constitution, i.e. from the so-called. the start-up allowance - i.e. the exemption from social security contributions for the first 6 months of business activity - by the end of November 2019 335 thousand benefited. Polish entrepreneurs setting up business. A similar number will benefit from a small ZUS plus which comes into force in a few days. The current solution concerning the small ZUS plus, which is already in force, was also in force last year, uses a hundred and tens of thousands, i.e. here also this facilitation, this relief for entrepreneurs in the field of social security we extend more than twice if you look at the number of Polish entrepreneurs who can use it. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that thanks to the SME package mentioned by the Member for the first time in Polish law, Polish family businesses have been given the opportunity to treat their spouse's work - as you know, in family companies it is precisely this way that a spouse is very often involved in distributing, cooperating and contributing to the company - they have been given the opportunity to include the labour costs of the spouse and the minor child in tax costs. It wasn't a tax expense before. It seems to me that this is such a bright example, as in total, a point change in tax law removes a clause that was evidently anti when it comes to family businesses, and instead we get a solution that serves them in some way. We also abolished the obligation for more than 1 million Polish companies to conduct periodic health and safety training. I assume that most countries have had the pleasure of going through periodic health and safety training, and you are aware of how these trainings most often looked in practice. I think it is boldly possible to define them as unnecessary and excessive administrative burdens. Of course, we are talking here about the least-accidental industries. Trade unions didn't agree with that. But not all of them, my fellow Member. Now we are returning to a few more data on those solutions that we have been able to adopt. We've already got 15 grand at CEIDG. requests for the establishment of succession managers. What's this? This is precisely the solution that allows Polish family companies to survive longer than their founders. This is a big challenge. We estimate that a few dozen percent of family businesses will face the challenge of a generation change in the next few years. So far, the law hasn't been ready for this. Only the Succession Act has enabled, created legal infrastructure that allows a company, a one-man business activity to survive the death of its founder, a transition over a temporary period in which it is managed by a successful manager, until the heirs decide what to do with the company, whether they want to carry it out or can sell it or maybe something else. That wasn't possible before. I would like to say a few more words at this point about our further plans for this area that we are talking about here. The first thing is the plan has already been realized, but it comes into force in a few days, and I don't think there's much to remind you of. On February 1, a small ZUS plus, i.e. the possibility of preferential contributions, entitlement to preferential social security contributions for several hundred thousand smallest Polish entrepreneurs will start. They will have a whole month, all of February, to declare themselves to choose this way of accounting. Of course, we encourage all those who are entitled to do so. As far as our next plans are concerned, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz has also announced several times that we are working on a package of facilitations to increase incentives, above all tax incentives, to invest in machinery, robots, automation, programs and to facilitate the departure from the company's development based solely on low wage costs. This is also necessary, given that in recent months we have the unemployment rate, which has reached historical minima in the history of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, we simply need to gradually, in line with the Responsible Development Strategy, to turn our economy into a new path. This is what this package will serve. I do not want to enter the Minister of Finance's shoes, but the Prime Minister in his exposé also announced a solution on which the Ministry of Finance is working at the moment, i.e. the Estonian tax billing model, which will also largely produce the result of encouraging companies to invest, so that the money will not be taken out or taken out of the company for consumption, but will remain in it to serve its further development. Of course, we will also be very much in favour of this project. I would also like to conclude by pointing out that this, let's call it, project: succession or this group of pro solutions, as far as family businesses are concerned, we will continue. We really want Polish family businesses to grow so that small ones become medium and medium ones become big. We are very interested in the accumulation of Polish capital. That's why we're working on a solution that we call a family foundation. It is modelled on solutions that already exist in other countries. We are already at such a stage that at the end of last term we consulted such a green book, which presented on the one hand how this solution works in other countries, and on the other hand possible, let's say, directions in which to go in Polish legal realities. We have a very good response. We have already published a report on these consultations on the Green Paper. The next step will be the drafting of a bill, which, of course, will also be widely consulted. And the thing I'd like to say at the very end. Always very wide. We consulted the market on all of the projects we have been talking about here, covered by the business constitution, the SME package, the law-friendly package, the succession projects. Of course, the Member is right, not always everyone agrees with us. But wherever possible, we gained positive positions from the RDS, the Joint Government Commission and the Territorial Government. We're consulting our projects. We have such a base of over 300 entities, trade organizations, nationwide organizations. We want to listen to the voice of Polish entrepreneurs. All these projects have been implemented in this way, which is why I declare that we will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u254	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that 24 ladies and gentlemen of Members have come to the discussion. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I ask Mrs Anna April from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today we can talk about a small ZUS plus, but I would like to return to a very important law, which came in November 2018, about the successful management. This is a very important act because until 2018 we have heard very often as Members about the huge turbulences that families had when in the family the owner of the company, the entrepreneur simply died. It turned out that from hour to hour, one could say that there was no legal action to be taken until the end of the succession process. Often this inheritance process was burdened with great family conflicts, which led the company to cease to exist. On the other hand, commitments were very often made to both counterparties and employees. It gave rise to great problems for the family. I am very pleased that this law, which was a powerful law, entered into force, as I said, in November 2018. She has changed many laws both in the field of labour law and social security as well as in civil, commercial and administrative law or in the field of tax law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As I was able to find such data in November 2019 - only 10 400 managers were included in the central register in more than 2 million companies - I have a detailed question regarding further facilitations with regard to this Successive Management Act, e.g. the date on which the family foundation will be established. Member, we're done here. Is there any idea of a temporary representative in respect of this particular law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Madam Rapporteur! Partnership, quality, packages, pluses, constitutions - words, words, words. You're bragging about how good it is. Then why is it so bad? This is confirmed not only by Polish entrepreneurs, but by important international rankings. As an example, I will give here only one of the most important, i.e. Doing Business, where we've been falling for three years. In 2017, we were in the 27th place, and now, in times of great economic prosperity, we are in the 40th place. Minister! Actually, I should have asked Minister Emilewicz because she raised my blood pressure today, bragging on TV this morning, but she's been bragging for a long time. In rankings there is an objective and realistic assessment of the conditions of doing business in Poland against the background of other countries, 190 countries. Why did this happen? First of all, I will tell you that PiS has made legal chaos for Polish entrepreneurs and destabilised the business environment. Examples? There you go. Firstly, attempts to introduce a commercial tax and then other taxes. Withdrawal and introduction of tax danins. You've brought them in over 40. The result? A drop in the investment rate to 30 years ago. Secondly, different interpretations of the rules depended on officials. And the question to the rulers is, do you control it? If you introduce laws to make it easier, do you translate it into the practice of public administration? The answer is negative. Thirdly, the tax wedge, which is the difference between the amount paid by the employee and the cost paid by the employer. These are all the fees, the ZUS and the taxes. This wedge in Poland is still the largest or one of the largest of all OECD countries. These are the real reasons for the deteriorating conditions of doing business in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to give you a few examples from last year, 2019, Mr. Marshal. Time's up, time's up. But there's no time. PIT from employees changed three times. Once again, you've lowered your credit cards from cars. You introduced a 10% higher ZUS contribution for most entrepreneurs. Mrs... There are rising energy prices and inflation, and these are fundamental determinants of doing business in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u258	Thank you very much. I'm impressed with your time struggle, but I remind you it's two minutes. Minister, Mr. Marshal... Mr. Minister will be in the future when we get to power. I invite Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Member of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is good that the government is looking for mechanisms and solutions that make it easier for young people to do this at the beginning of their business - thanks to them they can be competitive - and enable them to pay smaller contributions to the Social Security Office. Of course, on the start, as I said, these good solutions, I would like to ask, however, what impact they will have on the level of pensions for entrepreneurs later. Secondly, just now, the Member spoke of the fact that this year, i.e. in 2020, significantly - almost 10% - increases the contribution to the ZUS for the basic group of entrepreneurs who are self-employed - increases by PLN 114 51 exactly. Over the decade, according to the media, the premium on ZUS has increased by almost 58%. I have a question about paying that contribution. What is the state's backlog today? How does the system process work when it comes to entrepreneurs who take steps to get out of a difficult situation? It's about outstanding contributions to the Social Security Office. The last point - the use of the IT system. There's a relationship between an entrepreneur as a payer and a ZUS. Couldn't some things be improved? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u260	Thank you, sir. Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u261	Independent, yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said the government's job was to create a legal framework for business-friendly companies. That's very happy, but, Minister, that's the password. Of course, there is the first swallow you have said about, i.e. the introduction of a small ZUS plus for entrepreneurs who in the previous year, i.e. in 2019 have achieved revenues of not more than 120 thousand. You said 335,000. entrepreneurs will be covered by the small ZUS. I'd like to ask what entrepreneurs they are, you know, 120,000. processing within 60 days - there is still a minimum... Now imagine an entrepreneur who makes products and has to buy goods. It often happens that 60% the value of the product is the value of the commodity, the rest is labor. How can entrepreneurs who work honestly, one person, get into this ZUS? Therefore, my question is: Do you foresee that this amount may be exceeded or increased? As you remember, during the process on the project, this issue was discussed very strongly. I would like to give you two more examples. I know my buddy's gonna talk about the waste database. I will not refer to this again, but I would like to mention VAT settlement. The Minister said he wouldn't walk into the finance minister's shoes. Ladies and gentlemen, if the trader has a refund of more than 30,000 VAT, he will have control. Such control shall take between 3 and 6 months. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? The money that an entrepreneur could invest is blocked. I know an entrepreneur who trades a million-dollar VAT. Practically over PLN 2 million is borrowed throughout the year. Is there anything we can do to get entrepreneurs to turn this money around? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u262	Thank you very much. I think we should. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't? I don't think he's here. Too bad PiS isn't here. What do you mean, gone? Here we are. Is it? You're welcome. Law and Justice is. I'm sorry, I was wrong. I just wanted to smile at you. It wasn't mean. The Member has not arrived because she has other responsibilities. The Member has not arrived because she has other responsibilities. I'm sorry if I was misunderstood. Maria Małgorzata Janyska from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. There it is. And I'm waving a warm hand to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You're talking about a little ZUS, a little ZUS plus, but you're forgetting about this real ZUS, which affects the largest number of entrepreneurs. My previous speaker has already mentioned this. Let me just add that for these entrepreneurs this year the ZUS has been the highest in years - the percentage increase in contributions has been the highest in 8 years and the amount has been the highest in 11 years. This would be worth paying attention to, not just to provide information on the day. Ladies and gentlemen, this package is a friendly law. What do entrepreneurs expect from this package? They expect that the law will be stable and predictable, that it will be consulted, that it will be created in dialogue with them and will not be pushed into one night or three days with parliamentary projects that no one can influence. This will ensure the stability of their activities. That's why... Just to reach out to research that is done every year, in which entrepreneurs say that it is these elements that I have mentioned that affect the fact that they do not make investment and development decisions. This is your fault because you Members accept these projects and implement them, not really interested in what is behind them. Entrepreneurs also wonder why you impose additional burdens on them, which you call tributes. In fact, they're taxes. There are dozens of them. Why are you restricting your business activity? This is an example: a pharmacy for a pharmacist. I don't know if you know - you probably know - how many drugstores have been closed. Over $1,000. This was due to the fact that they could not carry out their activities. You have also closed the way for young pharmaceutical graduates who, for geographical reasons included in this Act, cannot open a new point. You closed the possibility of developing (the bell) to commercial establishments - on Sunday, etc. But what else do they pay attention to? You have no strategy, no labour market policy. There are no hands to work, and at the same time those who work, entrepreneurs are so burdened with labour costs that generally in companies wages are flattened and they have a problem with how to deal with it. Also, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, you have no strategy... Mrs... ...as far as tax policy is concerned, because you're going to be a little relieved here, but you're gonna do a little extra on another business. There is no uniform tax policy. Mr. Marshal, time. Don't worry about it sometimes. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal. Madame applicant, you better examine these very things I am talking about... Member, everyone has two minutes. Member, but please... ...plus the actual relationship with the entrepreneurs, because you say the messages of the day... Time. ...and the reasons of the bill. I'd advise you not to do that, but to go to the entrepreneurs... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Okay, I'd be happy to say this, but give me a chance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Look, if we try... Love? ...though for 15 minutes not to argue. Exactly. It's impossible. But we like each other. I know we like each other, but... Then watch your time, Marshal. Ma'am, I'm gonna watch my time with the Platform as with the Law and Justice and the Left, because I'm trying to be reasonable about all of this. Mr Marek Polak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u265	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! An anti-zator act that eliminates the sound and chronic problem of late payments, the right to mistake for beginners, a small ZUS plus and invoices with statutory limited payment time - these are only a few, long-awaited, far-reaching and friendly business solutions, especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I think that the creditor's right to reduce the tax base by the amount of the claim may also be important, while the debtor's obligation to raise the tax base by the amount outstanding. The expected solution is also expected to facilitate the succession of businesses, especially family businesses, so as to avoid conflicts between heirs. But I do know that it's not only that the resort plans to make it easier. Hence my question: What other positive solutions can entrepreneurs still hope for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A friendly law for entrepreneurs. The package, its name actually sounds like a grim joke. I do not want to talk about the normative issues, the tax rules that some people have already talked about here, because when we talk about this friendship of law, it is actually the most important thing about how these taxes are to be paid, and these issues are regulated by the Tax Order - Tax Order, which clearly favours tax authorities in relations with the taxpayer. Not much, we're dealing with a notorious abuse of this advantage. This is due to the volatility of the rules, their complexity, but also to the natural legislation without any consultation. In 2015, the new Tax Order was ready. The starting point for its construction was the assumption that the taxpayer wanted to be honest with its obligations and does not seek to violate the law, and the State should actually facilitate and guarantee its security. This new ordination was intended to include solutions such as the right to information and legal protection, if they comply with this information. There was to be the right to consult, to consult with the consultation protocol, which would also give the basis for legal protection, whether, at last, the right to agree with the tax officer and the real right to challenge decisions. You've decided to say goodbye to all of this. In 2018, the Commission (the bell) of the General Tax Law Codification prepared a new Tax Order, with those solutions I was just talking about. For over a year, you had her, you had her, and you didn't finish working on her. It doesn't look like you're gonna want to restart it today either. This is the truth, this is how you approach the rights of the taxpayer in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u268	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Gonciusz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! From 1 February, new rules are to enter. a small ZUS, i.e. Little ZUS plus. A small ZUS plus has to reduce contributions to those who already benefit from a small ZUS, as well as expand the group of entrepreneurs who will be able to pay lower contributions. My question: What resulted from the transformation of the small ZUS into a small ZUS plus? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u270	Congratulations, sir. You helped me out a little bit because I need to cut back a little bit. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u271	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Business control is one of the most sensitive points in business dealings with public administration. Please say: Have procedures changed in this respect, and in what way have they changed in favour of entrepreneurs and the effects of these controls? Please also answer the question: What should be the role of inspections? And if you can still answer the question: How does the Ministry intend to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to invest or produce innovative products? Because this is indeed an opportunity to improve the competitiveness of our economy, as well as businesses themselves. If you could give some examples of incentives for our small and medium-sized enterprises to increase their interest in innovation, innovative technologies, products, services, etc. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u272	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that PiS talks a lot about lowering the ZUS, and the ZUS as it grew, so it grows. That's 10%. which has already been discussed several times from the speaker, this is the specific money that leaks out of citizens' pockets, because it is as much as 114 zlotys with a penny a month, and on a yearly basis it is already 1374 zlotys. So it is worth looking at what it looks like in the entire history of the four-year rule of law and justice, because since I am in the Seym, I still hear that the PiS lowers taxes for entrepreneurs and lowers the ZUS. So in this four-year history of ZUS for entrepreneurs, for self-employed people... 'Cause they're not often big entrepreneurs, they're tailors, they're shoemakers, they're small merchants, they're hairdressers, they're cosmetics, they're people who work hard every day to pay ZUS. This ZUS has increased monthly for your governments by PLN 336.11, which annually amounts to PLN 4033. For you, on the other hand, these are huge revenue to the budget, so no wonder the PiS is glad that the fees are rising. 12 billion a year - that's how much more you've got at the Social Security Fund, the NFZ, because you've increased... We didn't raise you, don't lie, don't lie to me, Member. ...about the 336 zł ZUS self-employed. But don't put your finger on us. In addition, if we look at the rise in media prices, the rise in sectoral taxes that you introduce in bulk every year, it is no wonder that today we have a problem with avalanchely increasing inflation. So you've got 13 billion more from the U.S.S. alone. Who's paying for this? Not only that, my dear entrepreneurs. Citizens pay for this every day by shopping in shops, because all these rising costs (the bell) of wages and production translate into the costs, prices of services and goods that we buy every day. Remember that when you go to the election. [[Applause]] Bravo, great!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u274	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs Barbara Bartus of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u275	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much, Mrs Joanna Borowska... Borowiac. ... Borowiak, I apologize, Mrs Borowiak, for presenting the subject of this current information showing the concern of the Law and Justice about entrepreneurs - about entrepreneurs who are so important for the development of our economy. We are pleased that, under the rule of law and justice, the trend has changed, the economy has begun to grow and wages have started to rise, which is of great importance. But of course no one likes to pay taxes, he doesn't like to pay ZUS contributions, which are shown as leaking money, pulling money out of his pocket. The U.S.S. has already become a proverbial hitting boy and the state, using the messages of the day that you have spoken so loudly about from the Civic Coalition, you are simply lying. That's why it would be worth a few facts. The act on the amount of ZUS contributions was adopted in 1998 and has been in force since 1999 and entrepreneurs pay ZUS contributions on the basis which is established as a minimum basis from which to count. It's 60%. the average wage. Contributions since 1999 have been fixed - pensions and pensions - at 32,52% , deducted from this base. There was a reduction in the percentage of contributions under the rule of law and justice in 2005 and 2007. This reduction was a 3% leap every six months. We've managed to reduce these contributions by 7%. That's when it went down. On the other hand, after coming [[♪ The bell ♪]] to power Platforms these contributions have been increased again - 2% Up on the pension fee. And today the cry that it is the Law and Justice that raises any contribution is a lie. It's not missing the truth anymore, it's just a lie. [[Applause]] Because contributions count as a percentage of the base that is, as I said, 60% the average wage. The economy is growing, that's why we should all be happy about it, but as the economy grows, it also raises wages, so that's why there's this increase in quotas. But, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't picking money out of citizens' pockets, out of business pockets. ZUS pays benefits. These are contributions to future retirement, pensions - including, if any, pension contributions. Time, Marshal, time. Therefore, let's not treat ZUS contributions as just a tax wedge. But I want to address the Minister... Ma'am... Just one. Mrs... What is the philosophy of the constitution for business? Perhaps, however, the Minister would have said more about how much contributions and taxes had actually been reduced during the rule of law and justice, and now in this term of office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u276	Thank you very much. I will tell the Members of the Civic Coalition why I have not interrupted. For as you had a minute longer, the messengers and Members of the PIS, the Law and Justice, asked not to interrupt. But a minute. I would therefore like to say this to Members of the Law and Justice: measure all in one measure. We've had two speeches made up. Then I ask for time discipline and one and the other. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And now, Mrs Claudia Jachir of the Civic Coalition. And from now on, I'm gonna interrupt everyone because the score is even. There you go. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am always happy when the government starts talking about entrepreneurs, because it is you, dear entrepreneurs, who are now sure to listen to the ideas of the government, you keep the whole economy, also us, for which we should thank entrepreneurs every day. However, the government should really apologize to you, dear entrepreneurs, because by sobbing eyes with small ZUS plus it does not make it easy for you to run companies, on the contrary, at an alarming rate raises the minimum wage, which is now 2600 PLN gross, and in 2023 it is supposed to reach 4 000. zł. The government doesn't think, dear entrepreneurs, where you're gonna get the money for this. I want you to have it, and if you don't like it, go abroad, as the Prime Minister said during the campaign. And unfortunately Poles do that. I had the opportunity to talk to representatives of small companies abroad, in London, where anyone can start a company, for example. for a trial, where a photographer for eight years did not have to appear at any office at all. Meanwhile, my colleague in Poland, an entrepreneur running a small family furniture company, complains that he often earns less than his employees. Besides, let's not fool ourselves, artificially raising the minimum wage will increase the gray area. How many officials will it take to fight her? In fact, the government is stealing from not only you, entrepreneurs, but also employees. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Words are to be reckoned with. In case an employee gets paid, for example, 3.5 thousand. zł, the total cost for the employer is 5830 zł. For those words, the ethics committee should be. 2300 zł tributes to the state, 3.5 thousand. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. To make sure that employee gets something else out of it. But when it comes down to it, he still has to go to a private dentist and pay $1,000. zł behind the root canal treatment of the tooth. Let me remind you, we have 32 teeth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a good thing he doesn't have to go to the professor's. 40% State tributes from every job, and the level of public service... Mrs... ...is not increasing because the government spends on a national foundation, salaries for its presidents of state companies, their assistants, for Rydzyk and propaganda, instead of doctors, pensions and people. Under the PiS, the premiere's expenses have doubled. It's over, it's over. Mrs... Last sentence, Marshal. If the government itself can't manage such a huge tribute that entrepreneurs and employees work hard for, then maybe it's better to leave the money to people to at least afford a dentist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The small ZUS calculated in proportion to the income is a relief and benefit for about 320 thousand. entrepreneurs of the smallest Polish companies, and the estimated cost for the state budget is from PLN 1.3 billion to PLN 1.5 billion. Minister, I ask you to answer the question of what were the main reasons for the introduction of the Social Security Office in 2018 and further reliefs to apply from February 2020. What is the survival of companies today, and will these expected changes increase their chances of remaining on the market? It is natural that using this benefit will translate into lower capital in your pension account. Will the introduction of a guarantee that a reduced contribution can be paid for a maximum of 36 months during the next 5 years of business guarantee a fair pension for the entrepreneur in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u280	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Coming, Marshal. You're welcome. Take your time. We'll wait. You're not gonna sweat. Day-to-day, Marshal. Good morning. Hello.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo, and especially Members of the ruling party, the Law and Justice! You're bragging about the extraordinary ease and bonuses that entrepreneurs receive from your government. We are talking about entrepreneurship here today, while your governments, instead of supporting this entrepreneurship, practice a kind of fellowship - so to each other, fellowship. You're just treating us because I'm an entrepreneur, like milking cows, which are the fifth wheel in your government's car. And once again, you pass more taxes, quasi-taxes, fees, concessions, payments, payments. That's what they're so full of, they can't all figure it out. You have to have a separate accountant so you can get all those fees and payments, not to mention the money. The minimum wage shall be raised in a jump. You have no idea what you are doing without looking at the economic reality, and this salary is paid by the highest country in Europe - the highest. Work in Poland is the most taxed compared to all European countries. I don't know how much this tribute is, ladies and gentlemen, but that will be my question to the finance minister, which I will ask at the end. How much money for last year, 2019, will there be more of the tribute, of the salary taxes? I would like to know in absolute figures what the impact on the state budget will be. Ladies and gentlemen, a small entrepreneur is left to himself and is treated like a big corporation. He must comply with the same requirements, obey the same laws as a big corporation. But in one case it doesn't have to do anything: the provisions of the Labour Code are not adapted to it at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A small and medium-sized entrepreneur does not take vacations because no one will pay him for these vacations, nor will anyone allow him to write off the cost of business. He doesn't take sick leave because if he's on sick leave, he won't be able to do business, and the ZUS officials are already standing around the corner to see if... Mr... ...in case it's not lying or lying. Ladies and gentlemen, a small entrepreneur and a medium-sized entrepreneur, no one asks why their store or their... Mr... ...a small hotel works 24 hours a day, and that's how they work, alone. No one's asking them that. Mr... A small entrepreneur is overworked... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u282	Mr President, I am very pleased that you have asked the question, but your time has passed. Thank you very much. Mrs Violetta Porowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u283	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Dear Opposite! Don't scare me, don't tell me the truth. Look what you've done for eight years of your job. A small ZUS plus this is the solution that crowds of entrepreneurs have been waiting for. You were just saying, and as you've always been saying the wrong thing, and it was the government of law and justice that made it really easy for them to see the entrepreneurs. $320,000. Small business people will benefit from lower contributions from 1 February and will benefit from this in a moment's time. Most entrepreneurs are persons included in CEIDG. Records is an electronic system through which entrepreneurs continue to deal with their business affairs. For this reason, it is necessary to provide the best possible infrastructure for this system in the context of the introduction of new solutions related to the small ZUS. And my question, Minister. Has the Polish government made improvements in this regard? If so, what scope are they and what improvements will that be? Ladies and gentlemen, we are already talking operationally, talking about what is most important for entrepreneurs. Don't do your narration, your black narrative. Entrepreneurs also listen to you and evaluate you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, success propaganda is amazing. I say this as an entrepreneur with over 25 years of internship and experience. I will always refer to the words of the most important person in the country, which is the right for entrepreneurs, i.e. the words of the Prime Minister, who spoke very much in his exposé about the support of entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized ones. The Prime Minister said that the heart of the economy is small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is not just one Polish businessman, and that this blow, ladies and gentlemen, is, firstly, a leap increase in the cost of doing business by raising the lowest national minimum. Since when is it for entrepreneurs that rules are made, how much money is there to make, how much profit is it supposed to make? Recently, it is determined how much it is to pay, so please determine what the minimum profit should be for the trader. If you set him a fixed cost, you have to set him a profit, too, because businessmen don't make money. [[Applause]] At the moment, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs earn less than their employees. Ladies and gentlemen! This aid to entrepreneurs is an increase in energy costs, which is an increase in the costs of BDO, i.e. the costs of waste disposal, it is employees' capital plans, and above all it is unclear and inconsistent law. And when it comes to trade, about this Polish, family, small, traditional trade, then, ladies and gentlemen, we have a ban on trade on Sunday, which was supposed to help, and what did he do? In December, approximately 95 thousand closed. Polish small shops. That's what your help looks like. There's no permission to do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u286	Whew. Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u287	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the determinants of a modern state is to ensure that as many procedures as possible can be completed electronically. Such an example in Poland is the Voivodeship office in Podlasie, which has electronic documentation management, and one of the municipalities of Piotrkowski County, Moszczenica, which also introduces this. And I'd like to ask you a question. As we know, a few years ago, entrepreneurs complained about the need to store often extensive paperwork files. And the question is, have any changes been made in this regard? Will electronic documentation management cover the whole country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u289	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Well, the state of government is bragging about how much you're helping entrepreneurs, how much profit you're making from your legal regulations. I would like to go back a little bit - the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, energy prices. What have you done about it? How did you treat small and medium-sized companies and entrepreneurs? A major discussion at the end of 2018, the project appears in 2019. They were all supposed to take advantage of it. The prices weren't supposed to go up. It turns out that for households, of course, yes, with some burdens, with difficulties, with settlements next year. What about small and medium-sized companies, huh? After half a year, you had to make a statement quickly in your teeth to make it. We've been through this before the parliamentary elections. It was another better for the parliamentary elections. What do we have in 2019 and 2020? You have forgotten about small and medium-sized enterprises in general. From what we hear, everyone will pay. Everyone's gonna pay. And a question for the Minister. Minister, how many small and medium-sized companies lost in 2019 when they were affected by an increase in energy? How much will these companies lose in 2020 when they survive this increase in energy? You're bragging about these reductions, the little ZUS. Please indicate the amounts. Here's where you put it, there's where you pick it up, and there's where you want to get it out of the entrepreneur. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u290	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I can say that the government is constantly working with entrepreneurs, as can be seen from the fruits of his work. As such a crown example can be given the adoption by the Sejm of a constitution for business, but also, of course, a package of friendly law or a small ZUS plus. These are really just a few examples of interacting with entrepreneurs and meeting their expectations. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Last year, the Polish Parliament adopted a new Public Procurement Law. His idea was, of course, the Polish government. With regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, I would like the Minister to present what specific solutions are envisaged for these small companies by the law adopted last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u293	High Seym! After Mrs Borowiak's speech, I propose a change in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I propose that this point be permanently called the current panegic. Panegir - a praised text that praises a person, an act, an event, full of admiration, often of a ridiculous nature. And now I am. Awesome galloping the average wage. A delight in galloping the minimum wage. I wasn't talking about pay. You weren't listening. I didn't talk about it. Miss, do you know that Poland is differentiated, that this average wage, from which we count company contributions, is 1/3 lower in the poorest regions than in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, where Warsaw is rich and the rest is not? Everyone is equal to the law, everyone has to pay the same tributes, but it was said that they do not have the same revenue. This is a real problem that you do not think about, nor do you try to understand what this lack of delight is in those poorer regions of Poland, which you are supposed to be intercessors of. You're blind to it. Here's another thing. The whole of Poland, entrepreneurs who produce waste, went crazy after January 1, when it turned out that waste databases hang for hours. And what have we heard from your people here in this podium? No problem, it works brilliantly. Tell that to the entrepreneurs. How is it that you have not been able to inform entrepreneurs that there are so significant changes in the law that out of 0.5 million entities that were supposed to report to the base, only 1/3 came forward? What does your business information system (Bell) look like about key changes in the law? I'll answer that. There's no such system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u295	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! My question will concern beginners, i.e. start-ups. As part of the package, a friendly country for a number of other facilities, such as: relief for start or 24 months of preferential contributions, small ZUS plus, there is still the right to error. Includes all enterprises registered in the Central Register and Information on Business Activity. This will apply for one year from the date on which the business takes place for the first time or again for at least 36 months from the date of the last suspension or termination of the business. Minister, I have a question. How will this be done in practice, what will be the incentive for people who take the first steps in entrepreneurship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I will address the opposition Members who care about our entrepreneurs so often that they have to visit various offices. I have a question about that. As we all know, the Polish economy has been developing well for the last few years. There are many examples of how Polish entrepreneurs currently benefit from this development. I have therefore a question: Is it not high time to improve the digitalisation and new technologies of all our offices and institutions that will support Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens? Are there plans in the Ministry to take action on digitalisation and modern technologies? We would see that we do not need to visit these offices very often, but we can arrange official matters in our home, using computer, Internet, through new technologies and thanks to the digitalization of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u298	Thank you very much. We're done asking questions. I have a problem and discomfort, because for 24 people who asked questions, 18 came out of the room, but I thought I'd take notes from the answers, find them at break and tell them what answers you gave them. I am. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current information presented by the Ministry of Development concerned a very important issue which was crucial for the Polish economy. The essence of development is to listen to the voices of entrepreneurs, especially the small and medium-sized business sector, to introduce new solutions so that they can feel safe, running their businesses, and so that they can develop them calmly. The role of the state is crucial in creating a business-friendly legal framework. They are the heart of the economy that is developing. It is important to listen to their voice to strengthen their work to support them. Very happy, Minister, the solutions you spoke about, and among them it is also important to support family businesses, care for family businesses, because it is also support for the Polish family. And here I would like to mention, once again, this solution that gives us the opportunity for the first time that the labour costs of a spouse are included in the costs of running a company, in the tax costs. This is a very good solution that fits in with the support of the Polish family in general. That hasn't happened yet. Our predecessors today have so much, so often on their lips they have actually had phrases about the support of entrepreneurs, today they have calculated a huge number of expectations, which the Government of Law and Justice has not done yet. And I have this request: go back to the times when you were responsible for the state, and see what you did because you did really, really little. A wide range of consultation with entrepreneurs deserves attention. That's what the Minister was talking about. More than 300 entities placed in the consultation base are really a lot. But the opposition isn't satisfied. We have heard such voices, despite the fact that you have given the Minister specifics, which are alleged to have no dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, 300 institutions, 300 entrepreneurs at the Ministry base and according to you, this is not a dialogue? Well, I'll admit I'm surprised. What would you expect? I don't know. The important thing is that entrepreneurs are happy about it. The facilitations put in place for entrepreneurs have been consulted with them in a broad way. This is the implementation of the demands put forward by the business world over the past few years. I was talking about it, too. Business representatives asked for these solutions, and the government responded to them. Members, the Platforms were most often dissatisfied with this. I wonder why? Well, perhaps because, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you may not have been able to prepare incentives, packages and reliefs for entrepreneurs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the two terms of office, not to mention the business constitution. We systematically and consistently switch the economy to new tracks, reduce contributions, present further reliefs and solutions, and, attention, we are not stealing from anyone, as Mrs Coalition says. I ask you kindly to be responsible for your words. Are you Members of the opposition living in parallel reality? 'Cause I'm afraid that's the kind of impression that needs to be made. You're talking about running companies abroad, but in recent years there's been a record-breaking registration of companies. In 2018 there were over 300,000. new registered companies. This Decision shall enter - over 300,000. companies. Where do you see this escape here? I understand that it's either a lack of interest, or a little insight when it comes to seeking knowledge, or just intentionally threatening and practicing black PR. You are talking about propaganda, you are talking about Members of the opposition, while today we are talking about concreteities, real support, real facilitations for Polish companies, because we care about Polish entrepreneurs, because we listen to them. It's your black propaganda against our specific actions. And I have a request: stop practicing this propaganda, don't scare the entrepreneurs, offer good solutions, and then everyone in the Seym will take these solutions from the right to the left. In your speeches, you have shown that you simply do not listen or do not want to hear what we are talking about. We know that the strongest economies of the world and the happiest societies have built their prosperity on the basis of a partnership between public administration and business, and that is why we are making the expected changes in this spirit. And I would like to thank you very much, Minister, for the information presented, for ensuring that Polish companies continue to grow, to develop, to make these small ones medium-sized, and those medium-sized ones, because that's what we want. I also thank you Members for their votes in the debate, because I think that... Even the pinchy ones, because they were, were also so sarcastic. I hope that, after all, they were dictated by your concern for well-being, for the development (Dawn) of Polish entrepreneurship. Let us talk together and work together to make Polish entrepreneurs better. Then the Polish economy will develop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u300	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Mark Nieblużak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a lot of questions and I can honestly say that in this time limit I am not able to tell you all, but there are a few issues that I am particularly interested in here and are certainly worthy of answers. The question was whether or not one of the messengers said that she still hears that the government is lowering taxes. Well, because the government reduced taxes first CIT for small companies, PIT for all, PIT for young people in general abolished, in addition Poland as an investment zone, the entire Polish investment zone, which is in fact also a tax reduction for every company that invests. It is simply the government that lowers taxes, and that is why the Member hears that the government lowers taxes. In principle, it seems to me that this is a great success, especially in the context of maintaining the discipline of public finances, a balanced budget and rising tax revenue, because this shows that the tax sealing process, which is a great success of the government, has been successful in parallel with a really large economic development and with a growing number of new companies, as the Member has already pointed out. So, it seems, seemingly, to combine fire with water, that means that we both have more revenue from taxes and lower taxes as well as business is more, and the economic development of Poland is that we are at this moment at the very forefront of the European Union of countries in terms of the pace of development. This is the first thing you have to say to yourself very clearly. The second thing is growing contributions to the Social Security Office. Let's start with the fact that the mechanism for determining contributions, i.e. indexing with average remuneration, has been in force in Poland since 1999 and this principle has been exactly the same since 1999. No major change has taken place in this regard. Therefore, what we see, and this is, I think something that everyone in this room should enjoy regardless of the role or political sympathy... We see an increase in average wages in Poland and this is also great news. That's great news. As a result of the indexing mechanism established, as I say, in 1999, these ordinary contributions will actually increase, hence the government has a solution which is the main topic of this speech and which is addressed to the smallest, i.e. the idea of entrepreneurs who most need some kind of support in this regard. But basically, we are in a situation where wages are rising in the country and where, among other things, we are in a situation where we are also in the country. not only looking at wages now, but also thanks to a policy in a very short term called 500+... In fact, there are a lot more activities there, but let's just call it that thanks to the support of Polish families consumption is growing. Poles can afford much, much more things and their standard of living increases. It is a huge success of all Poland, Polish entrepreneurs and it seems to me, really, given that, with full honesty, we can say that also the entire governing camp. And now: the effect of this is indeed... This was the password of avalanche inflation. I'm sorry, but the last time I looked at the dictionary, the word "avalanche" meant something different than 1%. In addition, all economists, analysts say that there are no structural conditions in Poland to the fact that inflation will increase significantly. It will go down a bit during the year at all, but due to the weather and a little increase in food prices, actually - and that must be said - also to the rise in energy prices. At that moment she hesitated up, at the end of the year she hesitated back down. Really, if it's an avalanche, then I guess I just checked the wrong word in the dictionary. Now, the ranking of Doing Business. In fact, we fell in the Doing Business, but it is not true that it is a fully objective indicator. No, this is an indicator that examines very specific things, e.g. examines time for registration of title in perpetual books, saying a little bit on a daily basis: in the perpetual accounting court in Warsaw. So this is a very specific ranking. In fact, this is exactly what we fell very much and that's why we fell. And you know why he fell? Because a lot of people in Poland have things to do in the eternal books at the moment. And you know why? Because one of the best solutions - in my own opinion too - which was successful in the previous term of office, was to transform the right of use into the right of ownership. And this is also one of the best things that we managed to do for the growing middle class in Poland, but not only for all Poles, because in the end they were given property rights, which gives them a much greater sense of security and which gives a much greater sense of stability in relation to the right of perpetual use, which people always looked at like this: What exactly is this perpetual use? Even a lot of people didn't really use that name. I noticed that some people said that the rent-a-lifetime... In general, people's consciousness did not fully accept it, and they always treated it with distrust. And transforming this into a perpetual right and it is extremely important, is a very great success, especially, by the way, in the western or northern lands, where very often the perpetual use... Very often a lot of properties were located there. Giving people stability and security, which is property, is also a huge success for the government. And actually because there are now a lot of requests in the perpetual books for a change of owner, because you have to type in e.g. not the municipality or the Treasury, but you need to enter e.g. Kowalski or Nowak, in fact, there is a longer queue there and it will actually translate to us on Doing Business, but this is exactly the mechanism. This does not mean that the environment for entrepreneurs has deteriorated in Poland, so that such understanding or actually, I would say, the use of the result from So, just so you know, let's talk about specifics, and let's not get distracted, right, and let's go into these big words in isolation from the facts. Another thing. There was talk of investments. E.g. We, too, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance... In the last term of office, tax relief for R &amp; D expenditure and tax relief for the use of intellectual property it produces were possible. It's so pretty sometimes called IP Box. And what effect do we have? Investments in R &amp; D - and these are the most important investments, because these are the investments that will translate into the competitiveness of the Polish economy - have increased by over 24% compared to 2015 and by almost 60% in the last 5 years. So it's not true that you don't invest in Poland. It invests in the most important elements for the development of the Polish economy, precisely the most important elements that will translate into our development. Investment is increasing as much as possible, and this is largely due to the changes that have been made in recent years in the tax system, in the regulatory environment. I thought those were the most important things, and that's where I wanted to start. There were a whole bunch of specific questions. As for some of them, I would like to ask you in writing, especially if you do. there was a question from the honourable Member about the number of procedures, the backlog of the Social Security Office. Of course, I don't have those numbers with me right now. There was also a question about controls, about how the business constitution translated into a number of controls. On the contrary, there were not so many questions as sometimes, I would say, very far-reaching statements. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the number of checks is falling. Unfortunately, I don't have the number of tax checks I know has fallen. I would suggest that you ask this question in writing. But for example. as regards the checks of the ZUS between 2015 and 2018, there were 81 thousand in 2015 and 59 000 in 2018. This is the effect of many factors, but above all in the business constitution, in the Law of Entrepreneurs we also have a new approach to control with the carrying out of risk analysis. It is simply that they already have data prior to the start of the inspection, they must analyse them and identify them for the control of those entities where the risk of irregularities is greatest. And as I say, you can see on hard numbers that the number of these checks has fallen. There was also a question of dependence: the amount of the contribution to the Social Security Office and the pension benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the lower contribution translates into lower pension benefits. Every time I get a chance to talk about a little ZUS, that's what I stress. It's an authority, not an obligation. It's only addressed to entrepreneurs, so to people who, by definition, are willing to be at a higher risk, right? They accept the greater risks associated with doing business, but they must also be aware that today they make such a choice: yes, I will pay less for the Social Security Office, and therefore in the future I will actually have to deal with lower benefits. So we also have -- there was this question -- it's a limit of 36 to 60 months. This is to ensure, however, that the minimum level of benefit is guaranteed. To conclude, I'd say the same people who just... Maybe not literally the same. Very often the question was heard: How is it that on the one hand the contribution to the ZUS is increasing, and on the other hand, how will the contribution be lower, then the benefit will be lower? Ladies and gentlemen, you can't have a cookie and eat a cookie. That's how it is. The increase in contributions means that we will have a higher benefit in the future. If someone chooses to make a preferentially reduced contribution - as I say, it is always an entrepreneur's choice, it is not an obligation - then it must count on the fact that this benefit will be lower in the future and that the money that he has in his pocket today will use some rational way. That's what we're assuming. Thank you very much. Like I said, as for the other questions that were many, I would ask you to submit questions in writing. However, I would like to fit in within the time frame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u302	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: Road safety status and activities carried out in this respect in 2018 (print No 76) together with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure (print No 124). I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber, to present a document. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 140e paragraph. 3 and 4 of the Road Traffic Law Act, the President of the National Council shall report annually to the Council of Ministers on the state of road safety and the activities carried out in this field, and the President of the Council of Ministers shall submit the document in question to the Sejm, the Senate and the President. This obligation was fulfilled in 2019 and the report presented was adopted by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and forwarded to the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The document presented illustrates the situation we faced on Polish roads in 2018. Today we already know preliminary accident data in 2019. We will draw conclusions for the future both from this year, which has passed recently, as well as from the year to which this report relates. Preliminary data show that in 2019 the downward trend was maintained in terms of the number of accidents and injuries in these cases. Unfortunately, we notice an increase in the number of deaths on Polish roads. As far as the number of accidents and injuries is concerned, it is greater, more dynamic than the increase in fatalities. On the other hand, this negative trend with regard to the number of deaths, we must also note. It is a clear signal that we need to step up efforts to improve safety in this area, particularly in the areas of speed management and pedestrian protection. As regards statistics, there were 31,674 road accidents in 2018. In these cases 2,862 people were killed. That's 31 more than in 2017, an increase of 1.1%. The number of wounded decreased by 5.3%. So what I said: fortunately, with relatively high dynamics, the number of accidents and injuries is falling, while this negative trend in the increase in the number of fatalities is visible. However, the rate of increase in the number of fatalities is less than the rate of decline in the overall number of accidents and injuries. I would like to point out that improving road safety is a long-term process that requires a thoughtful and forward-looking road safety policy. For the following years, the National Road Safety Council seeks to implement the guidelines indicated in the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2020. The result is a reduction of more than 37% in road fatalities in the last decade between 2009 and 2018. So in this period of 10 years, there has been a very marked decrease in the number of road fatalities. There was also a visible drop in the number of seriously injured, by 20%. In 2018, we recorded the lowest number of traffic accidents in years, but also the lowest number of serious injuries in years. However, it should be stressed that the pace of change in this area, the pace of change in the eradication of long-term deaths, as in many European Union countries, has been too slow to meet the main targets set in 2013 compared to 2020. Now the National Road Safety Council is facing a huge challenge, i.e. the development of a policy of action in this area for the coming years. It will be based on actual and empirical confirmed data, their in-depth analysis and information activities and their effects that we can find in this document. Ladies and gentlemen! When presenting this report, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in road safety activities so far. Thank you for your ideas, for your activity, for creating and initiating these activities, which are carried out by the police, by the Road Transport Inspection. Here really any good idea, any interesting solution is taken into account, are implemented and affect the improvement of road safety. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have already discussed this report twice in the previous term, we have not completed our work because we have not adopted this report in the plenary room, we are returning to work in this area. During this term of office a committee meeting was held, the first reading of this report during the work of the committee. There's been a lot of questions. There were also answers and information from our side. I think that the debate in the plenary room will also have this dimension. I will not continue my speech and I will not talk about the general public, we will address the various speeches of parliamentarians, the speeches of representatives of clubs, the speeches of parliamentarians in this area. We answer every question and hope for cooperation in the current government's efforts to improve road safety. The Prime Minister in his exposé announced that this would be an important element of the policy of the Government of Law and Justice. We are already holding the first discussions at committee meetings on legislative action. We are the Ministry of Infrastructure in the process of completing the investment programme on national networks and roads, and local road networks, which will improve road safety. We are planning a wide-ranging educational effort, so that we want to lead this problem in many fields on many levels. We are aware that law is one thing, but investment, education and enforcement are another important element, important factors that affect road safety. We want to take care of this issue on many levels so that it has the best effect. And the effect will be when the number of accidents will continue to fall, when the number of wounded will continue to fall, and when we reverse this negative trend over the last 2 years, when we have not dealt with a decrease in the number of those who have lost their lives on Polish roads. Thank you very much for this, for the discussion at the committee meeting. I am at your disposal as regards the continuation of the work on this document, now in this reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u304	Thank you, Minister, for the wisdom in the briefness of the presentation. I invite Mr Jerzy Polak to present the position of the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the report on road safety presented by the President of the Council of Ministers and the activities carried out in this area in 2018. The Commission considered this report on 9 January and asked the High Sejm to accept this document in print No 76. As rapporteur for the committee, in commenting on the discussion and the content of this document, I would first of all like to point out that firstly, the authors of the document recall in this report, as every year, a number of statistical data relating, among others. to types of accidents, to the number of fatalities, to the number of seriously injured victims, to the type of vehicle, to the gender of victims, to the behaviour of drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, etc., etc. These data, and this is very important, also contain relevant request information and recommendations, which mainly relate to the need for further corrective action, which was also raised as an asset of this document at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. I believe that it is with great satisfaction to note the very strong distinction of this issue in the Prime Minister's exposé, and I think that it is to be expected here," said Minister Rafał Weber just now - the government's legislative initiatives and the direction of road safety in the coming years, for example, as important issues pursued by the government in cooperation with all social partners, with local self-government units and all persons, institutions that contribute to making this issue as creatively applied in practice, and the aim of these actions is to reduce the number of accidents and road accident victims. I also respect all these institutions and people. Secondly, the report is regularly updated in relation to information needs and the 2018 report again highlights the risks, the challenges posed by demographic and statistical trends in road safety. In 2018, the growing challenges concerning the safety risk of road users aged 60+ were noted, while already projects and actions in the most vulnerable voivodships were reported, and such concrete actions were taken in many places in Poland. The National Road Safety Council, and this is clearly seen in the 2018 report, has implemented further concrete steps and initiatives linking together actions and efforts of different actors in such a way as to increase the strength and effectiveness of the impact on road safety in relation to the causes of accidents. Here I would like to draw attention to the implementation of the project concerning national trainings for local road and police managers, as well as to the implementation for the first time in 94 counties with the highest risk indicators of the programme dedicated to seniors 60+ and national workshops on the road - remember security with the support of local authorities, local police, NGOs and other stakeholders interested in such activities. Thirdly, the most important issue mentioned in this report is the improvement of road infrastructure, which is part of the information about additional efforts made, which will result in new directions for intervention and development of road engineering in order to improve the situation of the BRD, in particular in relation to e.g. Unprotected road users such as pedestrians or cyclists. Here I would like to strongly recommend to all interested, ladies and gentlemen, all interested councillors or those who are close to this issue, to read even the guidelines on correct lighting for pedestrian crossings, to take action related to guidelines on safe cycling infrastructure. I note with satisfaction myself, Minister, a number of such initiatives, especially at the level of the county, when certain actions concerning this aspect of road safety are undertaken within the framework of long-term, comprehensive, standardising these conditions already on the ground, within the framework of managed road infrastructure. Fourthly, the document submitted shows that the main objective of the action is to significantly reduce the number of accidents and their victims as a result of large-scale educational activities focusing on the main causes of road accidents, according to BRD data, e.g. This refers to the campaign related to the issue of not giving priority to the journey, improving the relationship of the driver - pedestrian. The document also stresses that in order to achieve this objective, it is of particular importance to step up efforts to create safe road infrastructure through changes in traffic organisation and knowledge on related problems. Fifthly, the best-performing countries' experience in the RTD area shows that measurable results can only be achieved by combining the dynamic development of safe road infrastructure in an area managed by national and local road managers respectively with awareness raising of the risks for all road users and by initiating and enforcing existing regulations or improving the emergency and post-accident care system, as well as the long-term programming, implementation and monitoring of the actions undertaken. As the Minister stated in his statement, he no longer referred to very many detailed statistics. Indeed, this document has already been discussed twice, in particular at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. I think that the key objectives of the National Road Safety Programme are to be met, e.g. with regard to the reduction of the number of people killed or seriously injured, will be reflected in subsequent legislative initiatives of the Council of Ministers. I think that this will also refer to the reduction in the structure of road accidents in the proportion of those events that are the most severe, have long-term effects, also have financial implications in the public finance system, and we are not talking about the trauma of thousands of people who have had to meet with such cases, in particular those closest to them. Mr. Marshal and High Izbo! To conclude, as rapporteur, I would like to ask that this report be adopted together with the conclusions that follow from this discussion and to thank all Members for the substantive, substantive, valuable debate that was discussed today in the plenary room of the Sejm. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u306	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. And he will listen to them four, not five, if the parliamentary club of the Left doesn't report someone to speak. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr. George Paul, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on road safety in 2018, prints 76 and 124 on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. For many years the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has given great importance to increasing the safety of all road users. A significant example of concern for every road user is the reference made by the Prime Minister in his exposé to the most vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians on the road. It should be noted that the Minister of Infrastructure, noting the risks posed by pedestrians, has launched a funding programme for the lighting of pedestrian crossings, which has significantly improved visibility in these areas and thus increased security for the so-called. belts. The positive effect of the Ministry of Infrastructure is a 26-percent decrease in fatalities between 2010 and 2018. Similar results can be found in Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Croatia. Although statistics show a drop in deaths in the last 10 years, we all realize that we need to do this together as road users. much more so that there are no serious accidents, especially those with fatal outcome. Law and Justice appreciate the actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding the construction of high-speed roads such as motorways and expressways. One cannot fail to notice the government's great expenditure on the implementation of national and voivodship roads. New investments in road infrastructure make a decisive contribution to increasing safety on Polish roads. Construction of circular traffic crossings, so-called. roundabouts, reconstruction of light-signalling from collision to collision-free or construction of one-way roads significantly reduces the number of road accidents each year. A smaller number of road events resulted in fewer people injured. Unfortunately, hundreds of kilometers of new, fast roads have caused too many people to die on these roads. The reason for this sad statistics is often in a lack of adjustment of the speed of the journey to the conditions of the road. It is significant that the greatest number of road events occur during the day, in very good weather conditions, and the least accidents are during fog and snowfall, which only confirms that our drivers drive far too fast and very dangerously. A negative example of too fast driving is also data that the number of fatal accidents caused by driving in the rear of a vehicle in front of the vehicle has increased, when the speed of the vehicle has not been adjusted to the road situation and in addition too little distance from the preceding vehicle. For many years, one of the main problems of Polish roads is drunk drivers, pedestrians or even passengers, who caused 2779 accidents in 2018, in which 370 people died. The topic of drunk drivers can be partially resolved by tightening the penalties for this road crime. The participants in the road safety debate organised by the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk and the chief road transport inspector Alvin Gajadhur, who has been assessed by specialists as the best and most substantial in the last few decades, requested a similar increase in penalties and their absolute enforcement. We are convinced that the lessons learned from this discussion will serve as good suggestions for a partial revision of the Traffic Law. Law and Justice positively evaluates the actions of the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding the situation on Polish roads, while stressing that it will support any changes in traffic regulations, which will lead to further improvement of the state of safety on Polish roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u308	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the introduction to the report on road safety in 2018 we can read: The road safety in Poland in 2018 is still unsatisfactory. The analysis of the data contained in the report and the comparison with previous years unfortunately confirm this assessment. The National Road Safety Programme for 2013-2020 has stated that by 2020 the number of fatalities will be reduced by 50% compared to the 2010 indicators. By translating this into figures, in 2020 it was expected that no more than 2 000 people would die on Polish roads. persons. The report shows that the intended results were not achieved in 2018. The number of people killed was more than 25%, and the number of people badly injured was more than 43% above the expected effect of the programme. According to the above-mentioned national road safety improvement programme, it was expected that in 2018 the number of fatalities would not exceed 2286 people. In fact, more than 576 people died on Polish roads. The same is true of people who are badly injured. It was anticipated that the number of people badly injured would be about 7.5 thousand. The actual number reached almost 11 thousand. Against the background of the European Union, Poland is still in a group of countries with the highest rate of death per million inhabitants. The 24th place with an indicator of 76 people killed in 1 million with an average of 49 people killed in 1 million indicates that there is still a lot to be improved. We can read in the report that the number of road fatalities has been reduced by more than 37% in the years 2009 to 2018 and the number of accidents has been slightly reduced by more than 28%. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress that the period of the greatest dynamic of the reduction in the number of fatalities and the number of accidents falls between 2009 and 2015. That's 35% and 25%, respectively. Thus, the number of people killed in road accidents decreased by just over 2% between 2016 and 2018. That's about three percent. Dramatism is added by the fact that according to the Police Headquarters, the number of deaths in road traffic in 2019 increased again and amounted to 2897. So we can talk about perpetuating this disturbing trend. In 2018 the upward trend of collisions was slowed down. Great. However, this is difficult to consider as a great success, as their number has been growing steadily since 2014. In 2017, it increased by 25% compared to 2014, reaching an unrecorded record - 436 thousand. A similar number of collisions occurred in 2018. I hope this is the beginning of a downward trend, but it will only be possible to assess the effectiveness of these actions in a few years. The number of fatalities caused by drunk drivers, cyclists, motorcyclists has increased. It's already been mentioned here today. One of the few positive trends is the constantly decreasing number of fatalities caused by pedestrians. This shows that it is probably about programmes that have been implemented in this area, and about the awareness of pedestrians, which is getting bigger and bigger. However, we must also note that the number of people killed in pedestrian crossings is increasing for the third year in a row. Since 2015, it has increased by more than 15%. And here we should mention the first legislative initiative of the Civic Coalition Club during this term of office of the Sejm. This is a draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law aimed at guaranteeing priority for pedestrians. Since the security of our citizens is our common concern, in the context of insufficient effectiveness, we suggest the support set out in the above mentioned. the design of solutions. As of 2015, a downward trend has been observed in the number of fatal accidents causing a failure to adjust speed to traffic conditions, not to give priority to crossings, frontal collisions, side collisions, tree hits. The common denominator of these events is speed. Ladies and gentlemen! The analysis of the report shows that there was a change in road safety (Ring) in 2016 and that this was not a good change. Actions undertaken in 2016 and 2018 were ineffective and the report does not contain a diagnosis of this condition and does not present effective actions. The Civic Coalition Club therefore requests that this report be rejected as incomplete, without effective solutions to improve road safety in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u310	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On Polish roads almost 3,000 people lose their lives each year. people, about 40,000. Poles and Poles lose their health every year in road events. These are, above all, great tragedies of families and friends who will never see their loved ones again or have to accompany them in long-term and demanding rehabilitation. Polish roads are one big black spot, and public authorities have been passive in this matter for years. The result is that, as a country, we are in the ungrateful forefront in terms of the number of road deaths per million inhabitants. During the rule of law and justice, even the number of people killed on the roads increased in the years 2017 and 2019. We already know that the assumptions of the national security plan for 2013 and 2020 will not be met. Particular attention should be paid to the fact that the number of victims in the 60+ age group has increased. In this report, we can also read that for three years in a row, the number of people killed on pedestrian crossings is increasing, i.e. where the level of safety should be by far the highest. This increase in 2018 compared to the previous year was around 4% , until 2016 - approx. 8% , and by 2015 - about 16%. The main reason for these dramatic data is the notorical crossing of the permitted speed of driving by drivers. We know - we know from research, we know from comparative analyses in other countries - that the effective way for road pirates is by photo-radar, but the influence of these photo-radar should be allocated to the fund for the reconstruction of dangerous places, not a bottomless bank. Unfortunately, in Poland there are not enough cameras, and road pirates still do not have to face the inevitability of punishment. The possibility of using the camera tool was wrongly taken away from the municipalities. Current head of the radar system, i.e. The General Road Transport Inspection, illegally increases the speed limits, so that drivers can freely exceed the speed of up to 30 km/h without any consequences. Road accidents, of course, are, above all, thousands of human dramas, but for you, they are also tangible financial losses. The cost of road events related to medical care, funerals or therapy assistance is a loss of approx. PLN 56.5 billion per year for the State Treasury according to data for 2018. This money, as you know it, could be better used for health care or education. Of course, the government should be commended for the proposal for changes in road safety, which the Prime Minister's announcement appeared in his exposé and also in the Minister's statements, but two questions arise here. First of all, why so late? On Polish roads under the rule of law and justice since 2016, around 12 thousand. people lost their lives, and about 150,000. Cheers. Second of all, what took you so long? When will we learn the details of these proposals and the timetable for their implementation? When we find out if the planned improvement in road safety is more than a PR procedure, which unfortunately we have seen so much in government? When we find out if the planned improvement in road safety is more than a PR procedure, which unfortunately we saw so much in the state of government? When we find out whether, in particular, pedestrians prior to entering the pedestrian transition will be a real priority, or will it be built up, as unfortunately for the project of the Parliamentary Civic Coalition, absurd sharpenings on the pedestrian side, so that there really is no such priority? As the Left Club, we want the Sejm and the government to focus on Europe's proven and effective efforts to improve road safety. The protection of the weakest participants in the movement, i.e. pedestrians, often elderly people or with disabilities, but also children, should be strengthened. In all countries where pedestrians have been given adequate protection by law, as well as by police, road safety has significantly improved. The penalties for traffic offences must be meted out and raised. Perhaps they should also be linked to the amount of remuneration. The actions of governments such as Slovakia and Lithuania have shown that increasing the rates of mandates has had a very positive impact on the level of safety on the roads there. Above all, however, the inevitability of punishment must be guaranteed. Anyone who creates danger for himself and others must be aware of the consequences. A fund should also be set up for the reconstruction of dangerous places financed by the proceeds of mandates. Such a tool should enable governments and local authorities to make such changes in infrastructure which will make it difficult or even impossible to break the rules on a given road and improve the comfort of movement. Polish families, older people, children, each and every one of us, all should feel safe on the streets of Polish cities, towns and villages. The life and health of Poles and Poles is the most important and has no party colors. It is neither the right-wing voter nor the left-wing voter who dies on the lanes. He's a man, someone's son, someone's mother, someone's sister. We should all remember this by being new, needed laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u312	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Krajewski from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. At the same time, I would like to inform you that due to the convened meeting of the Sejm Bureau at 3 p.m. 5.45 p.m. I will suspend the session by 5 p.m. 18. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u313	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As we hear, we will discuss the situation from 2018, but safety on Polish roads seems to be improving, because soon the end of January, and we have not yet heard a word about any collision involving SOP. I'm not talking about big caramboles anymore, but we haven't even heard about small clashes. Either things got better or the information was more sealed. On the other hand, speaking of this information we are discussing the information about the road safety status and the activities carried out in this regard in 2018, prints 76 and 124, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I have the honour to present our position. I'm glad the number of road accidents is decreasing, but... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for silence. Mr Szczerba, I respect you very much, but let us respect the Member of the Parliamentary Club of PSL. There you go. ...the fact that the number of people killed is greater is disturbing. Much has been done to increase safety, even though pedestrian crossings have been highlighted. On the other hand, let us consider whether it is worthwhile to promote knowledge even more and encourage pedestrians to take this cautious approach and build careful trust in drivers, but we also see more and more as participants in the movement, that in many places pedestrians enter without looking around, without stopping. Not always the driver at the right distance can see this fact and this should be remembered. We often talk about the fact that outside of the built-up area we should wear reflections, we should wear lighting. As in the case of cyclists, much has improved in this area, because we see well-lit cyclists, well marked bicycles, so for pedestrians we still meet pedestrians outside the area built in the evening, in the afternoons without reflections, without lighting. It's forbidden today, but no consequences can be drawn from it. If we are talking about speeds, it is true that a driver who travels at a speed above the prescribed speed, above 50 km from the established speed, poses a really high risk and we need to think about it in the future. In Podlaskie Voivodship we also see a large share of road events involving animals. The passageways for animals appear on all newly built roads, those multi-lane roads with these collisionless crossings, entrances, exits, and nobody says that such crossings could be built on national roads, where there is not even a plan yet to rebuild this road. A road lane fence from the forest and building a passageway for animals would certainly improve safety. That's something to think about. In fact, every day on those days, when the day is even shorter, although it is already increasing, when we are entering the forest areas, into undeveloped areas, these animals are increasingly appearing and I think that the State Forests, which, after all, have a lot of money, could allocate some part of the funds for such investments, but of course the budget resources are also needed. The Government of Law and Justice is very proud of these completed investments, for which it really only cut ribbons, but when we ask what, in terms of construction of new roads, new investments, it blames long-lasting proceedings, problems with tenders, problems with contractors. On the other hand, as [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, as the Coalition of Poland, we will accept this document because it is information about what was already done in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u314	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 18. What about me? And you will be after the recess because I thought that the meeting of the Sejm Bureau without a representative of the Left could be lame. So after the break. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 46 hrs. 18 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take your seats. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 190. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, print No 189. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted draft resolutions: - commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau and the commemoration of the International Holocaust Remembrance Day, print No. 196, - on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy, print No 195. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, - amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, - the establishment of a Polish Science Day, - on the amendment of the Waste Act and the Cleanliness and Order Act in the municipalities. The reports shall be printed in no. 170, 190, 167 and 188 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau and the commemoration of the International Holocaust Victim Remembrance Day (Print No. 196). If you'll all please stand up. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau and the commemoration of the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. On the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau - the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp and commemorating this event, the International Day of Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust of the Polish Republic pays tribute to all victims of one of the greatest crimes in human history. It is our duty to remind the next generation of the fate of man when he was guided by anti-Semitism, racist and national prejudices and political hatred. Fascism, communism, Nazism and finally death camps and camps were not born overnight. For years, the civilized Europe has adapted to the practices of criminal ideologies. Today, we know how far a person can go because of his hostility toward another person simply because he has another faith, belongs to another nation, or has different views. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland has a special moral duty to commemorate the victims and warn the world of the threat of ideological possession and its consequences. It was here, on occupied Polish lands, that Nazi Germany murdered the Jewish people, that they carried out a plan to destroy and enslave Poles, Roma, Soviet POWs and citizens of many other European nations. In the eyes of the international public, Auschwitz-Birkenau is and will remain a symbol of the Holocaust and inhuman terror, next to Treblinka, Bełżec, Majdanka, Stutthof and other places of execution of Polish Jews and Poles. We bow our heads before all the victims of the Nazi death machine, we honor the heroes who fought the German Third Reich, but above all we observe by indifference and passiveness towards the hatred of racism and anti-Semitism. Let the history of Auschwitz-Birkenau be a warning to all. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau and the commemoration of the International Holocaust Remembrance Day. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy (print No 195). The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy. 75 years have passed since events constituting one of the darkest cards of contemporary history of Poland and Upper Silesia. The Tragedy of Upper Silesia, which the Sejm of the Republic of Poland decides to commemorate in this resolution, is a painfully large phenomenon, including crimes, rapes, deportations and repressions that took place after 1945 in Upper Silesia. The Upper Silesia tragedy is crimes committed by Red Army soldiers entering Upper Silesia, such as the murder of more than 200 inhabitants of Miechowice. Tragedy of Upper Silesia is the suffering and death of people staying in communist labour camps, among others. in Świtochłowice Agree, Mysłowice and Jaworzno. Tragedy of Upper Silesia are exports of tens of thousands of inhabitants of Upper Silesia (mainly men of working age) among others. To the Donetsk Basin and Siberia. Upper Silesian tragedy is post-war loneliness and hunger for Silesian women and children. Tragedy Upper Silesia is the dismantling of Silesian industry and exports to the Soviet Union of equipment from Silesian factories, it is forced migration and systematic destruction of multicultural heritage. Dozens of years of systemic lie and communist censorship caused the Silesian wounds not to heal. After 1989, much was done to defy history and not duplicate past mistakes. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays the highest homage to all those who lost their lives and health during the Upper Silesian Tragedy. Please accept the resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy. We have formal requests. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the arrangements made just a moment ago at the Bureau and Senior Convention, I allow only one formal application from the club. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u315	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break and a call for the Convention of Seniors on the deletion from the list of votes of a point concerning the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. Mrs. Marshal! Your marshal made a request to the Constitutional Court yesterday to settle a dispute of competence between the Sejm and the Supreme Court, as well as the President and the Supreme Court. In accordance with the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal, Article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, the opening of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal shall result in the suspension of proceedings before the authorities which hold a dispute of competence. Mr Kalet has been very strongly promoting this provision in recent minutes on Twitter. If your marshal takes his proposal seriously, and I think he does, please suspend the legislative process concerning the Law on Courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u316	Thank you, sir. The formal application was submitted correctly. Therefore, I would like to ask you in a moment for the Senior Convention to the living room, in accordance with the procedure. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 22 hrs. 18 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you that I have consulted the Senior Convention. After a mixed opinion that I don't have to take into account... But you can. ...I'm not taking this off the agenda. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Kukiz15. Formal conclusion. You don't have to, but you might consider it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wanted it as an art. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be formally requested for a break during which your marshal could prepare information for the High Chamber as to the circumstances of the request to the Constitutional Tribunal yesterday to settle a dispute of competence between the Sejm of the Republic and the Supreme Court. I think it is worthwhile, Your Marshal, to share with the High Chamber the information on which legal basis you have made this conclusion, the circumstances according to your Marshals were important to make such a request, and finally, I think what is very important, or any pressure from your political environment, to make this request yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u318	Thank you, sir. The proposal is irregular because it does not concern the agenda. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. There you go. And this is the last formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u319	God bless you! Good evening! Formal application, Art. Paragraph 184. 3. Dear Marshal! I ask you to order a break and call the Seniors Convention in order to put on the agenda information as a matter of urgency the Minister of National Defence on the purchase of a multitasking F-35 aircraft for the Polish Army. The Committee on National Defence yesterday - a quorum broken by the representatives of the parliamentary majority, and therefore an unsuccessful committee, in the absence of the Minister. Today, the Minister is also absent. The parliamentary majority votes that it does not want any information about this transaction. Most people vote they don't want to know anything about it. Information, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 30 billion just for good morning, what are we spending on? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u320	Thank you, sir. A non-regulatory proposal as it does not concern the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining (print No 31) - continuation. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The proposal adopted by the Sejm Bureau is to refer this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print 31 to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working. Who doesn't it work with? 449 Members voted. For - 284, 164 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. Who doesn't it work with? Who doesn't it work with? They haven't worked in five years. Check it out, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (print No 34) - continuation. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm refer this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The discussion requested that this project be addressed to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the project in accordance with the requested request. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, maybe you misplaced this card because it's still active. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending a citizens' bill on amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law and certain other laws included in print No 34, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 375 - for, against - 78, 2 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws (prints no. 160 and 170). I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights shall consider and propose that the resolution of the Senate be rejected by the High House. The Commission took note of the reasons for the resolution and heard the oral position presented by the Senate representative by Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. By 14 votes to 10, the Commission adopted a negative opinion on the Senate resolution. The Commission considered that the arguments used, both in writing and in oral arguments, were unconvincing and even completely barren and misplaced. The Senate, mastered by the opposition, interprets our constitution completely singularly... This is the committee's report. ...and brings out, very euphemistically speaking, unfortunate conclusions. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] You can only scream, right? That's your only argument. The voices of Poles, the Poles chose this way. In order to justify the content of the resolution, the primacy and primacy of Community law over national law were granted, which, in fact, prima facie disqualifies that resolution and its intercessors. Scandal! This is the committee's report? Granda! You don't know your own law. It requires that the European Union, as an interstate body of an inclusive nature, has no supposed competence. Its competences are based on the principle of recognition. The formation and organisation of justice is the domain and competence of Poland, so in this respect we have the discretion and authority to decide for ourselves in this area. Art. 9 constitutions. I recommend reading the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, e.g. from 11 May 2005 and 24 November 2010 on the Treaty of Accession of Lisbon, where the primacy of Polish law, the Constitution on Community law, was decided. [[Game in the O.R.]] Constitution! This is not a report. This is the committee's report? This isn't a PiS club performance? Ladies and gentlemen, please don't scream like that. You're only allowed to roar. That's your only argument. [[Applause]] And that's what the article is all about. 8... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Stop your emotions, more kindness. Shut up! Mr President, you are very welcome to continue your speech. Anyway, that's what Art says. 8 constitutions. Get down on the ground. You guys get down on the ground first. These judgments are not innovative and pioneering. It is enough to recall the judgments of other national tribunals, such as your favorite German court, the Federal Constitutional Court. Report. There's gonna be a tribunal, there's gonna be a tribunal. You're going to jail. The time will come. Read Solange I, Solange II, where the supremacy of German law over European law has been recognised. These judgments took place many years ago, but they continue to radiate to the German law system. Marshal, this is not a report. It is a pity that, as an opposition, you often refer to the legal culture of Germany and its standards, and these judgments are ignored. [[Applause]] Bravo! Marshal, is this a report? Marshal, do you hear that? It's sad, but it confirms one basic thesis: you have no respect for the Constitution. [[Applause]] Bravo! Stop treating the Constitution as a prop. Just start reading it, reading it with understanding. [[Applause]] Marshal, this is not the committee's report. What's this? I never thought that the Senate marshal or the first president of the Supreme Court would become missionaries, promoters of lawlessness. Take that finger. Marshal, this is not a report. Instead of supporting the government in the progressive fraternal battle, where some judges attack others, the opposition unfortunately does not only perpetuate this state of affairs but also fuel. [[Game in the O.R.]] Get to the point. Get off the podium. You guys really need to stop living each other's lives. Look, maybe you'll get something. [[Applause]] Report. You are in favour, ladies and gentlemen, of disorder and legal chaos. Look at what's going on at the CBA, how chaos you're in. As an active lawyer, I've dealt with a lot of judges. I am convinced that the absolute majority of them are doing their job very well, wanting to judge fairly and wisely, to judge. These people try their diligent work daily to build the trust of Poles in the justice system. But the committee's report. These aren't your memories, they're your reports. Unfortunately, there will be a group of organized scouts in every social group that needs to be countered. [[Applause]] Bravo! That handful of people... Mr... ...from a perspective of 11,000. The judges... The marshal is talking to you. Mr... ...confronted with opposition, he enters the heights of alpinism... Mr... ...just to hurt the reform. Some of the MPs are hitting the desks. Peter, the marshal is talking to you. Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Moaning is the argument of people who have no substantive arguments. Some Members chant: Gomulka! Go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go! Go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go! I can't hear you screaming. Mr President, please stick to the report, sir. Your marshal, for his ear and for the speaker. 'Cause you're gonna get punished. Ladies and gentlemen! During the committee meeting, we were reporting. There were a number of arguments raised. I'm trying to present them here in an essential way and summarize them. You don't make it. And this is a report, ladies and gentlemen, because the truth hurts. The arguments. Just like you. I told you, you had to have a very rich imagination just a moment ago to predict that some judges had such an aversion, an aversion to other colleagues, that they would be in favor of questioning their professional status and would not recognize them as legitimate judges. Report, not your opinion. This is the genesis of the legislative response expressed in this law, which had to be taken in order to stop such dangerous and irresponsible behaviour. Prime Minister, take this gentleman down. That part of the jury's independence was wrong about impunity. Moreover, judges go directly to the violation of the Constitution and, through completely illegal law-making judgments, try to question the President's prerogative to appoint judges. Get to the point. I'll continue. In the Senate resolution, you have often referred to the opinions of the external bodies, and I will also allow you to refer to this issue, especially the opinion of the Venice Commission. Poland is a full member of the European Union. The place of Poland is in the European Union. We want to define and create the Union's activities. We don't want to be a patentor. No opposition should seek to weaken its own homeland. You are whistleblowers and conduct anti-Polish activities in the name of ad hoc political goals. [[Touchdown, applause]] What's this? [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Mr... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. President, can you hear me? No. Ladies and gentlemen! Finishing... Take the ladder. Get off the podium. Disgraceful! Finish your work, sir. ...I would like to stress that we have a fundamental and autonomous right to a judicial organisation. We have the courage to reform the Polish justice system, and we will continue to do so. In turn you have a unique gift of not accepting facts and the Polish right to know, ignorance and servility. Scandal! Mr... Keep going. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u322	Mr. President, in the future, please keep an eye on... Okay, please... I was debuting... Mr President, please make sure that this is the report's formula, okay? You're welcome, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 20 December 2019 amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will ask the question. Time - 1 minute. On behalf of the PSL Club. PSL - Kukiz15. Together, Your Marshal. I'm sorry, but my mic went off. It happens to us sometimes, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the past four and a half years, Law and Justice have been saying that they want to give justice to citizens, and there's something about it. Two citizens are undoubtedly increasing their influence on the judiciary and the influence of justice. [[Applause]] The first citizen is Jarosław Kaczyński, second citizen - Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. There's something about it. There's something about it. In the meantime, what is the reality when it comes to handing over justice to citizens? 31 amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, 12 amendment of the Act on the National Council of Courts... And a round table. ...12 amendment of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, 10 amendment of the Law on the System of Universal Courts. You have given nothing to citizens when it comes to judicial matters, and when we allow you to talk about how to improve justice, you do not come to meetings. What's the conclusion? This bill, like all the previous ones, will do nothing to citizens when it comes to justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u324	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard the rapporteur's outrageous speech, really outrageous. [[Applause]] There is a real coup in the Seym today. Oh! We have just learned that the judges elected by the neo-KRS are unworthy to be heard, and here the Sejm decides that the courts should cease to be independent. That's not true. Why is your marshal lying? We've already had state bombings in Poland, but there was no state bombing just to... By the judges, yes. ...to protect crooks and whistleblowers. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Thieves. Don't pretend, ladies and gentlemen, that you wanted to make a difference. They're gonna end. You're really destroying the state, you're bringing Poland out of Europe just to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, Thank you, Member. ...to protect people who should be judged by the justice system. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Bravo! Thank you, Marshal. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Smiszko from the Left. Thank you, Member. You'll be able to, Mr. President... Marshal, thank you very much. Sorry, I can't say any more. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u326	Thank you, Marshal, it's 26 seconds late. Bravo! Thieves. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. Please, sir, unless you do not speak, I will ask the next Member. And the president called Banasi...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it must be said that what you presented to the rapporteur was some sort of evening politruk tales, not a report. I don't know, we didn't hear you because you screamed like that. Bravo! Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question. Why are we investigating a bill that was not consulted at the Seym stage? The whole society looked at our committee, which at night, without listening to anyone, ran over Polish courts. You do not listen to anyone - neither the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the OSCE, nor experts or authorities. We listen to Poles. Contacts. You don't even listen to your friends from the United States. Tell me what authority your project supports. No authority. [[Applause]] Putin. First of all, this is not supported by Poles. You don't listen to Poles. Some Members chant: Poles! Poles! Poles! Calm down, please. Calm down. The bill we're working on is a muzzle and a whip in one form. He closes his mouth to the judges and brings them to the role of free machinery to deliver judgments. Thieves support that. And finally, this law violates not only the rights of judges, but it violates the law to the courts of all citizens. Bravo! This bill will hit hundreds of thousands of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u328	Thank you, sir. Please, the last question will be asked by Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation. The penultimate, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u329	Ladies and gentlemen! This report was indeed not a report, but the questions of the old opposition were not questions. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the European Union has recently blackmailed Poland - I say this as an opponent of this judicial reform and an opponent of the courts in the present form - the European Union has blackmailed financial blackmail. If the Polish government does not stop with its judicial reform, the European Union will stop paying us the right amount of money. This means that we are not a sovereign state, and the courts are not independent. I have a question: Shouldn't we finally restore Poland's sovereignty in the European Community and declare the shameful Treaty of Lisbon? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u330	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Mr Przemysław Czarnek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the record, to Mr Laugh: your authority does not have to be our authority. [[Applause]] Bravo! Your authority does not have to be the authority of all Poles. Names. Therefore, please do not say that all authorities are against this reform. What are they for? Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, this bill... You are saying goodbye to Polish democracy. ...we are introducing a model of disciplinary responsibility needed to ensure that [[Applause]] Poles could come to Polish courts for justice, not just for judgment. Bravo! For justice and for fair judgments which will be handed down by judges subject to normal disciplinary responsibility. When will Mr. Kaczyński be questioned? I therefore end with a question to the rapporteur and to the Minister. Does the rule of law mean that they rule the state... Silver, 50,000. ...laws passed by a legislative chamber, by a legislative authority, or some kind of... But it's constitutional. ...interpretations pointed out, completely out of the air, by President Gersdorf and by a handful of judges from the caste jury group? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, Przemek!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Wójcik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, will answer. You're welcome, Minister. But the corrigendum was mentioned in my name.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u333	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult not to refer to some of the charges that fell from this speaker, above all what Marshal Kidawa-Błońska said. So what? Hook team, how's it going down there? I'll tell you about the last four years. At first, I wanted to thank your marshal for this request... What about 15 million in CBA? Who stole them? ...on a dispute between the legislative authority and the Supreme Court, between the executive authority and the Supreme Court. Take care of... We, ladies and gentlemen, will not allow chaos or anarchy. We will not allow the destruction of the state. [[Applause]] Bravo, Michael! There's no permission to do that. No matter what, there are those who think they're above the law. You're gonna sit down. You, you. Zibro and Kaczyński... Although there's a provision in the Constitutional Tribunal's organization and functioning law, someone says he's above the law because he can. Belarus! Citizens aren't allowed... Bravo, Michael! ...but there's a caste that can. The latter, ladies and gentlemen, four years. WP.pl say it. When we took power four years ago, the United Right under the leadership of President Jarosław Kaczyński promised that we would complete the work... Comrade Brudziński. ...who started to sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. And that responsibility was taken by the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro, whom you are so eager to attack. Lech Kaczyński would also agree... During these four years, a lot of reforms, dozens of laws, VAT cases, for example, the fight against the VAT mafia. Did you fight? The Mafia's at your house. At the Ministry. Did you fight? Shame! Scandal! Where do you think the money was taken from? Where do you think the money was taken from for pensioners and pensioners? From thieves, from the VAT mob. You couldn't fight. [[Applause]] All you had was no money and no money. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Fight... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's... Your Marshal, which question do you answer the Minister? Ladies and gentlemen, you really can't hear anything in a racket like this. Sit down, sir. There were questions... But which question do you answer, Minister? Mrs Kidawa-Błońska. Look, you'll hear it, sir. Minister, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Ladies and gentlemen! Let the nation listen to why you're yelling. They're in good health. I'm going to the Mafia. Don't yell. What did you do a few months before we took over? You've changed the law. You wanted to fight the mob with administrative penalties. They laughed about it. They used a gift from you when you were in charge. We're the ones who've prepared the changes, and we're the ones who started fighting the drug mob so that the drugs can go to the pensioners, to those who need them. [[Applause]] Case concerning changes in the criminal procedure, civil procedure, case concerning children, for example. How did you fight for Polish children? You were sitting there with your hands on your head. I'm talking to Mrs Kidawa-Błońska. Your marshal, these four years are hard work. You asked me what we did. How many paedophile priests... These are not institutional issues. We did what you didn't do. Where's Peterovich? We did what you didn't do. [[Applause]] And you'd never do it. You're asking about this bill. This bill really is a concreteization of what is already in our legal state today, ladies and gentlemen. How much did the CBA colleagues take? It's just that today some people are acting in a way that goes beyond the law, because they say, you can question the status of another judge. How much money do you have in your commercials? After all, they question your status, after all, you are really the representation of the nation. The judge isn't allowed to do that. It's never been allowed, and it's never gonna be allowed. This is even in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]] It's a matter of two more things. Voting in the European Parliament. Two more towers. Street and abroad, right? That's your password. But no one's asking you that. In the European Parliament, you voted against the Poles. That's how it was in the context of this bill. Bravo! Against Poland and against Poles. No opposition in the world behaves like this. You vote against... No opposition. You're the one who's invited. In fact, the Venice Commission, and the Venice Commission, it places us in the role of those who have a lower legal culture. That's your opinion, Marshal, bent neck and knee-deep in front of the others. But we have our identity, we're a great nation, and we're not allowed to do that. Hold on! Bravo, Michael! It's a matter of the Disciplinary Chamber. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the nation must know that the Disciplinary Chamber is a court for judges first and foremost. You don't want that. Remember the parts from the drill, the sausage, the pants theft? They're politicians. That's what it was. How about that 50 zloty remind you? Judge Milewski. Go to Banasia. Remember... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Minister, I'm sorry. Some Members chant: CBA! CBA! CBA! Ladies and gentlemen, since the next session of the Sejm, I will not allow any questions at all... No, of course not. Lock us up. ...because you don't ask, and if they ask, they won't listen to the answer. The Minister shall exercise his right to speak in accordance with the rules of procedure... No, he's supposed to answer questions, not tell stories. ...so let him finish his speech. Minister, please finish slowly, okay? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Remember the time when you were in charge, the judge who was going to politics. Where's the money? What kind of politics? Answer me. He was ready to file the case. That didn't bother you. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, How about when you and the judges left the Civic Platform? [[Applause]] Was that good? That's what you want the justice system to look like. Don't embarrass yourself. It's a disgrace to the ministry. Whether you throw logs under your feet or stick sticks in spokes, there is no way - in what we promised the nation, we will keep our word. Thank you very much. Bravo, Michael!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u334	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 20 December 2019 amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working. It doesn't work for you. You haven't worked in five years. Your brain isn't working, Tarsinski. 454 Members voted. 234 - for, 211 - against, 9 stopped. [[Some Members get up, give a tumultuous applause]] The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution! Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act... Your marshal, if you don't mind. Your marshal, I had an announcement - we took a photo - that the card was broken. What happened? Because I just didn't have the opportunity to vote, like my colleagues did. Already five years ago, Kuchciński bought a new system for voting. Where is he? Member, there was a bad card, because we have a reading here. There was a bad card, sir. Nah... But here we have the same. Your Marshal... We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (prints No 162 and 197). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, print No 162. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering this resolution of the Senate at its meeting today, recommends rejecting these two amendments. It also proposes that the two amendments be voted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u336	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the 1st Amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act, the Senate proposes to amend the title of Chapter 10 and to add an article. 52k. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. It's not working! Who doesn't it work with? Ladies and gentlemen, raise your hand to whom it does not work. We're not voting. But we're not voting now. Your marshal, what about the new system Kuchciński was buying? We're not voting yet, ladies and gentlemen, so the scanner isn't working. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] They haven't worked in five years. Somehow you're overly nervous. Don't be, really. There was a 2 million-dollar system installed. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Question, I understand, on this matter. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. One minute. You're welcome. But the question, Mr President, about this amendment, please, otherwise I will take the floor and there will be no questions because you do not want to hear the answer. Okay? And the government guy can talk about whatever he wants. They're lying. Your marshal, your freedom of voice... I told you to turn off the microphone. Jarek, tell me, stop explaining. Mr President, time is running out. One minute. Please. It's not on yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last time I asked you a question, you turned off the microphone. Very good. So let me start with the question: How much does the company of Critical Applications cost us, which is responsible for the fact that, however, the Ministry of Finance, tax offices do not fill PITs for taxpayers? Because that's what this bill is about. The Senate proposes to limit this extension to 1 year, not ad Kalendas Graecas. Mrs. Marshal! I would also like to thank you for pointing out that Mr Sak has violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and has gone beyond the role of rapporteur. [[Applause]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr Sak has read everything, including comments to the opposition, so that violation of the Rules of Procedure was a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm... Zibro wrote it. ...and it's intentional. Mr Sak wanted to do it because he had it written. [[Applause]] What are you doing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u338	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Does it work for all of you? It's working. Thank you. This is a good system. 451 Members voted. 234 was in favor, against - 212, 5 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act establishing the Polish Science Day (prints No 164 and 167). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u339	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in print No 167. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth at its meeting on 22 January considered the Senate resolution on the Law on the Establishment of the Polish Science Day, print No 164. After its examination, the committee asks the High Sejm to reject the Senate amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u340	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Grzegorz Braun with a question. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Rule! The Confederation of this speaker declared that it would be enthusiastic to accept the project of establishing a Polish Science Day, provided that it would be a day of national mourning. That's not what happened. The Senate does not make such an amendment. We are very sorry, but maybe in the meantime we will be able to find out what part of the Polish science budget will be spent financing publications of Polish scholars in mostly Anglo-Saxon journals, mandatory because of the solutions introduced by Prime Minister Gowin, whose essence can be brought into the integration of the central vacuum cleaner into the Polish intellectual product, Polish innovation. All this is to go abroad, and the state budget is to pay for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u342	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 239 - for, against - 211, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act on the establishment of the Polish Science Day. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Waste and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities (Prints No 163 and 188). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate submitted seven amendments to the Law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities. These amendments were examined by the Commission at its meeting yesterday. Although, at least in the case of Amendment 6, there is a lack of due justification, disregarding the principle of first reading, namely the full legislative process - which raises serious constitutional doubts, and we are saddened that the Senate, who so requests a constitution, behaves in a way which is somewhat derogatory to this constitution - the committee, however, examining these amendments and considering that they are acting in favour of those who are bound by these laws that we are debating, has decided to recommend these amendments to the High House to accept. Amendment 1, including amendments 3, 4, 5 and 6, must be voted on. Amendments 2 and 7 are of course already being treated for a little bit more... They're not connected to them. On the other hand, the Environment Committee recommends that the High House adopt these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u344	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to give the title of the Act the following wording: a revision of the Waste Act and some other laws. Amendments 3 to 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 3 to 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 7 was in favor, against -443, 1 held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 7th Waste Act of the Senate proposes that documents be drawn up in the event of a failure referred to in this provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. Six for, against -445, two holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 3rd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was in favor, 446 against, with a hold of 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Waste Act and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection. The additional committee report shall be in print No 110-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u345	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee a report on the government draft law amending the State Sanitary Inspection Act, prints 46, 110 and 110-A respectively. At the time of the second reading, a motion was made to reject the law in its entirety, which the committee recommends rejecting. 15 amendments were also tabled, of which the committee recommends that 12 be adopted and three rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u346	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 110. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with a political, HR project in which under the heading of substantive changes you want to strike another blow to local governments as a government. But this coat is short, and it wipes out the naked truth from under it. You want to take away the other powers of the local government, in this case the counties, but the most smells of the next jobs and the next jobs in the district sanitary inspectors. Haven't you had enough of those jobs? This is unacceptable. That is why the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote against this evil project. I appeal to all Members of Parliament and Members of the opposition to support this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u348	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 218 - for, against - 231, 3 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes a legislative amendment to the title of the Act. Amendments 2, 9, 11, 13, 14 and 15 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 9, 11, 13, 14 and 15, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 233 was for, against - 210, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 1 of the draft amending act containing amendments to the State Sanitary Inspection Act, the applicant proposes to delete point 2, point 4 (a). b and point 8 (b) a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 80 - for, against - 232, 137 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, PSL-Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's Health Committee meeting, when we examined the second reading amendments, Mr... In fact, it has come to light what the amendment of this law is for. Namely, when the chairman of the committee asked one of the Vice-Ministers for an opinion on the PSL-Kukiz15 amendment on the inclusion of the old-timer in the decision-making process of the appointment of the district inspector, the Deputy Minister, with disarming sincerity, said that he was against it, because this amendment alters the fundamental objective of this amendment. So I ask: Why wash your eyes, write multi-page justifications? Why engage the Sejm Analysis Office? Why bother serious people when it is possible to write in justification: the aim is to centralize public authority in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u350	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 216 - for, 231 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to delete point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 440 - for, against - 2, 7 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 22o applicants propose an amendment to paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 228 was for, against - 210, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 22q. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 238 was in favor, 213 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 22t. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 239, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 was in favor, against - 212, 8 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. The draft amending act shall propose amendments to paragraph 2. 4 and 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. For - 239, 212 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 110, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against - 220, 1 held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 126. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 126, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 443 was in favor, 5 against, holding six. The Sejm passed a law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft plant protection law against pests. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes that a draft resolution be adopted in print No 125. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 125 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 447 - in favour, no one voted against, 6 abstained. The Sejm passed a plant protection law against pests. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Construction Law Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 156-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Construction Law Act and some other laws, 12 amendments were submitted to this draft. The Committee on Infrastructure has considered and recommended that the High House reject all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u352	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 156. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1-11 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Construction Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. For - 215, 231 - against, the 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose not to give a new wording to point 1. Amendments 3, 5 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. I invite Mrs Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Coalition, to the question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Construction law in the PiS government is treated as a cuckoo egg and transferred from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Development, therefore perhaps Minister Emilewicz does not know what law is created in its resort. Hence my question to the Minister. Minister! Did you know that these regulations increase the risk of building disasters? Why? Well, you're distracting the responsibility for the design documentation, you're withdrawing the rules that talk about the obligation to deliver opinions from professionals if we build dangerous investments, artificially divide the documentation and push industry-related projects and technical documentation to the background. It's dangerous. This does not accelerate the construction process in any way. There is a chance to withdraw from these rules, but the Sejm controlled by the PiS must vote in favour of this amendment, which I encourage. It was the Law and Justice that won the election.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u354	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 2, 3, 5 and 7 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, against - 241, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 33 applicants propose not to repeal paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 243 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u355	I wanted to ask you why you're taking us back to the Middle Ages instead of practicing very good, modern, design methods. We propose here to optionally allow the electronic version of the projects. That's first of all. Secondly, this division into projects that you are proposing is a retreat towards modern methods that are applied everywhere in Europe. Please take this amendment into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u356	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Corrigendum. What correction, how did he not have a speech at all? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 219 - for, against - 235, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th Amendment, applicants propose not to add Article to the Act. 49e-49i. Amendments 9 are combined with this amendment. - Twelve. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition, asked the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u357	This amendment aims to remove outrageous records allowing the legalization of 20-year-old construction self-confidence. Ladies and gentlemen! This will be the reward of the dishonest, and those who have built properly, legally, will be punished for it. I wanted to ask you, who's going to say that the building is 20 years old? There are no records of when this should be reported or who or on the basis of which records it is to be stated. I wanted to ask: What about the construction of the Polders, the Polders? Will there be legalizations of construction self-consciously? What about the gardens, the villas that grew up there? Are you going to legalize there, too? Two towers. That's it. That's what the whole bill is for. Ladies and gentlemen! This drive for legalization, this reward of dishonesty, is unethical towards those who build honestly and legally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u358	Thank you, Member. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left, has yet to be asked. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! By using your presence, I will ask you a question that concerns not only the whole of this project, but something much wider. Where is the urban and construction code, for which we have been waiting for so many years, which the state could develop and present to us as a comprehensive solution that would not only order construction but also spatial governance? I would very much ask you to answer this question in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u360	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 8 to 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For - 204, 246 - against, the 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before the vote, the question. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u361	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask, it's about the whole bill, why does it even serve? It seems to me, we think it serves one purpose. Firstly, speeding up the issue of building permits, which will not speed up the implementation of the investment, but maybe the idea is to issue as much building permits as possible as soon as possible, e.g. apartments plus, repel success, and there will be no more apartments. The second target is very likely because you might want to legalize this ugliness on Podhale. It's already legendary. These houses, which do not resemble houses in the Podhale style, are already a legendary example of the Polish ugliness of illegal buildings. I'm asking, is this about our spatial order permanently poisoning such buildings? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u362	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 156, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 273 - for, against - 135, 47 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Construction Law Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and certain other laws. The amendment tabled in the discussion was withdrawn. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 165. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to repeat the question I had already asked during my second reading, but I did not get the answer. After the entry into force of this law, what will be the average earnings of management staff and inspectors? Because it turns out it's really going to be zero, which is zero plus zero is always zero. If you do not add money there, and as it turned out during the second reading, the state, combining two inspections, only adds part of the money from the Trade Inspection, then we will still not have safe food, because the Trade Inspection and the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection have no money. There are job vacancies, people waiting for money to be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u364	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 165, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 454. 451 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 7 of the Rural Development Committee's report on the government draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 166. Question. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. But I'm asking you to calm down. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Question for the Minister of Agriculture. Why the flagship programme of Law and Justice, cow+, pig+, estimated at over PLN 3 billion, was converted into an ordinary programme to be financed by the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 of PLN 215 million and implemented over 2 years. Cheaters. If this money were divided by the number of pigs and cows in Poland, there would be PLN 4.40 per piece. Minister, please do not complicate and mislead the public and farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! They cheated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u366	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jarosław Sachajko, PSL-Kukiz15, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The programme promised, supposedly done, but at the same time, introducing this programme, reduces the competitiveness of Polish agriculture. If we're taking money from the fund into producer groups, which means we're taking money to make farmers join together to make them more competitive, we're making it worse instead of improving their situation. Why do we not want farmers to work together, just like in the Western countries, Denmark, the Netherlands, France, to continue to atomize them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u368	Thank you, sir. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u369	Ladies and gentlemen! We agreed on a system of putting a lot of money into the Union and then applying for it back. This is absurd, of course someone will say: Wait, right in the first years we received more, 25 billion more. So I'm asking you why we even put it in there. We could've just gotten it right away. Probably just so we can be blackmailed like we are now in the judiciary. Okay, we got 25 billion more, and you can see that, but you can't see that we had to hire 100,000. The officials who distribute this money, and it costs us billions of dollars. We had to develop a new branch of the economy, which does nothing but produce EU projects, are consulting companies. Lots of these projects are ridiculous and fictional, and we're wasting money there. Wouldn't it be better to withdraw from this system, leave the money we put in the Union, in the pockets of Poles, in the pockets of Polish farmers, instead of playing with this system that wastes money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u370	Thank you. And last question, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Twice. I am a woman, sir. Because they've called me marshals twice already. Mrs. Marshal, just in case. Excuse me, Marshal. High Izbo! The left will support the bill because he will support any project that brings money to the country. Only that we have EUR 50 million and I feel sorry for you, Minister, because you will have to explain why there is only EUR 50 million, not PLN 3.5 billion, as foreseen. The President announced - Mr President - recently, before the elections, how much farmers are supposed to expect, and unfortunately it worked out as always. But I wanted to ask on this occasion, I can understand that the financial perspective is ending, but in the next financial perspective, isn't there enough money for this old... But in the next (The Bell) perspective, is there any chance that farmers will receive this amount of PLN 100+ and PLN 500+? That's what the president said. Unless you fooled the president.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u372	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to explain briefly and precisely the meaning of this support, which Polish farmers will receive. I understand that some rhetorical questions are not expected to be answered, but at least the part that contains some element of the question I would like to answer. That is why it is written only 2 years, because the period of the current financial perspective ends. On the other hand, I reply to Mr Ajchler: Yes, in the new perspective, two basic directions of animals in Poland, namely pigs and cattle - both milk and meat - will be allocated considerable resources. This programme is, in a sense, a test of how much farmers will be interested in support, which is intended to provide a number of elements. A destiny for money farmers... I share the view that any funds in the countryside will be welcomed and well used. But also to encourage farmers to keep animals more environmentally friendly, to keep animals more well-being, to keep animals in conditions associated with a larger area, with runways, with a greater and longer period of grazing, i.e. to stay animals in conditions that are beneficial for them. Yes, Poland is becoming the leader of an ecological approach to agriculture. We are becoming those who in their agriculture want to carry out such activities, also in the animal breeding environment that is challenged by some of them, which will involve requirements or expectations of keeping animals in better conditions. Since the intensity of production is less, there are some additional obligations on the part of farmers, we are paying more money, which is why we are adding these measures. Yes, Poland is a leader in the greening of agriculture and I am convinced that our solutions, our designs can be interesting also for other countries. I would very much like to ask you to accept this bill. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u374	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 166, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 439 - for, against - 3, 5 stopped. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 168-A. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Infrastructure Commission has examined the Government's draft amendment to the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovations and recommends that the High House adopt it. One amendment was tabled in the second reading. There is a negative recommendation from the committee and a motion to reject it. In view of the importance of this proposal, I would like to mention it literally two sentences before the vote. First of all, the proposed amendment aims to increase the effects of promoting thermomodernization and renovation and to support further objectives such as renovation of large-scale buildings and renovation of municipal buildings. The Act extended the range of beneficiaries of the thermomodernization premium to municipalities. In addition, the provisions of the Act are intended to contribute precisely to increasing energy efficiency in the housing sector, to combating energy poverty and to reducing emissions of harmful substances to the environment. The project has been highly evaluated by all parliamentary clubs. As rapporteur, I would also like to thank the government for this valuable revision and doubling of public expenditure, which is dedicated to the poorest technical housing segment, which is municipal resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u376	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 168. In an additional report, the committee presented an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose that a new wording be given to paragraph 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u377	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good bill. Although there is no room for substantive discussion today, let me just say what you will be voting on right now. This will be an amendment to increase the amounts for thermomodernisation. If you object, these amounts will simply be smaller. On the other hand, I would like to ask the question: Why do you exclude from the group of beneficiaries of this TBS project and certain forms of housing owned by the city, even though this is not the case at the committee meeting? But that's what the Senate's gonna do at our request. Thank you very much, the Left will support this project. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u378	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 213 - for, against 238, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 168 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 444 for, 4 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. In view of the proposal not to send the bill back to the committee, objections were raised. I will put to the vote the proposal to proceed to the third reading without referring the draft back to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of entering the third reading of the draft law contained in print 175 without returning the draft back to the committee would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For-- 243, 206-- against, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 175. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been asking you questions since the beginning of the process on this printing, which we do not get answers to. So I'm going to ask them again today. Which companies will be the beneficiaries of this change of law that you are proposing? Who's actually gonna make money out of this? Why do these companies not want to apply for a concession under the newly passed law and therefore this right is to act backwards? Will not local residents, landowners, and the environment suffer to facilitate their conduct? In the absence of an answer to these questions and in the light of the doubts of the Legislative Office, which believes that this amendment may be incompatible with the Constitution, and in the absence of the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which we have asked for, we are asking for a vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u380	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is to accept the motion to reject in full the draft law contained in print 175 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 177 - for, against - 244, 31 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question will be asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! The destruction of the rule of law is done in different ways. This is not just about the system of courts, it is not just about the division of power, it is also about destruction in the creation of law. And this bill is an example of that. It is such a crawling demolition of the rule of law: creating rules in advance, consciously, not in accordance with the rules. We know that the rule does not apply: the law does not work backwards. Still, without asking, without waiting for the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, you want to apply the provisions from 5 years ago to the current legal situation. In this way we can incarcerate any law, depreciate any law, invalidate any law. This is done cynically, consciously, under the cloak of parliamentary projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u382	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the whole... The result of lack of education. We're voting. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch will ask the question. No, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u383	I have a question... To the chairman's office. ...to the majority of the Seyms before the two terms. I mean the moment when the Act of 11 July 2014 was passed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Why didn't you listen to the Legislature Office's momites at the time so that you wouldn't make the rules very retroactive? Why did you throw out dozens of applications in the basket - because 3 months back before the date of entry into force of the Act, starting from 1 January 2015, that is 30 September - you threw in the basket all licence applications submitted after that date? We have amended these provisions three times in the last term and there is still something to improve. Why are you two full of double standards and you can't see a beam in your own eye, just a blade in ours? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u384	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 175, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 243 was for, against - 177, 33 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2020. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 174-A. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u385	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 10 amendments were tabled during the second reading of the Around Budget Act. Amendment no. 6 The committee recommends that the other amendments be accepted, while the Public Finance Committee recommends that the remaining amendments be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u386	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 174. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. I would like to inform you that Amendment 2 has been withdrawn by the applicants. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 181 - for, 234 - against, 36 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 12. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Coalition, will ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u387	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Every driver who registers a car or buys an OC insurance to check the car at the vehicle control station pays money on the CEPiK fund, a fund that was to be ready in 2016. Drivers pay for it, and there was another major accident yesterday. The system's still not working well and it's not finished. Further, employers cannot check whether their employees have the right to drive or whether the car is occupied by the bailiff or by the bank. You've made a decision, and you want to spend money in the budget for this year on drivers who were going to improve security, to put the high-speed Internet in schools. This money for the introduction of the high-speed internet was to be provided in the state budget rather than in the CEPiK fund. Hence my question: When will this application be completed? And when are you gonna stop taking the driver's money for purposes that don't concern (the bell) improving road safety? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u388	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 183 - for, against - 235, 35 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 19. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 6 irrelevant. Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition, will ask the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You are proposing in this article to finance research at universities by allocating government bonds to universities. The question arises: Why such a dwarf structure? I mean, the bonds could be losing value. I mean, universities are gonna have to pay to handle brokerage bills. Why don't you just, Prime Minister, transfer the money from the budget to the universities? I'll try to answer the question, confirm: because you don't have any money in your budget, [[Applause]] because this is another manipulation that shows that there are very important expenditures that can no longer be put into the budget, because, first, you are limited by the stabilizing spending rule, and secondly, you are obsessed with the idea of a sustainable deficit, a balanced budget. As a result, you have the situation that you have 1133 million for universities that are written under the line (the bell), and you pretend that there is no deficit. It's just cheating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u390	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 182 was in favor, 264 against, with a hold of 7. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 20. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 366 was in favor, against - 48, with 38 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 23. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's gonna hold off? 452 Members voted. It was 134, 263 against, and 55 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 24. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We have a similar situation here as the previous amendment. I mean, the government, instead of financing the Polish Water Company, simply grants it loans for 780... for 830 million PLN. Again, the question arises: Why such a dwarf combination? Because he just doesn't have any money. The Polish Water Company must function, but there is no money in the budget. Together, if we take the entire around budget bill, we have three items there, which together mean additional expenditure for which there is no compensation, for the amount of PLN 2750 million. Add this to the amount I was talking about in the first debate when I calculated the financial shortfalls for PLN 75 billion. It's just, once again, I have to emphasize this great propaganda hoax. [[Applause]] And then Greece and no retirement money. Only the president will. Citizens won't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u392	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. For - 181, 265 - against, the 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 27. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 181 was for, 236 against, 36 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 33. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is another episode of telenovela: budget without deficit. Here - 836 million PLN. That's actually going to have less NFZ to provide health services, because you're moving free medicines for seniors, residual, by the way, from budget, from budget funding to NFZ. This in practice means that health benefits will be less, will be less quality, the NFZ will not be able to meet its obligations towards Poles and Poles. And the Minister of Health thinks that less is more, and it doesn't really bother him at all. [[Applause]] Ziobro's gonna judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u394	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 184 - for, against - 262, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before that, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition, the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u395	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, do not believe in fairy tales that this budget is balanced and has no deficit. 146 billion more revenue. The expenditure of over PLN 20 billion has been pushed from the budget to another part of the public finance sector. For example, an additional pension - because this cannot be called a 13th pension - was transferred to the Solidarity Fund, which was to support people with disabilities. If these funds were included in the budget, we would have a significant deficit and we could not talk about sustainable finances. The biggest sin of these spending plans is to pay fixed one-off expenses. Transformation fee for OFE, sale of CO2 permits Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. ...though he has a deficit, and is this responsible management of public finances? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u396	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 174, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 was for, against - 219, no one held back. The Sejm has passed a law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 192-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the second reading work, the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission received seven requests, including one farthest-reaching, to reject the draft law in its entirety. The remaining six proposals are proposals for specific entries, amendments or requests for additions. After considering all proposals, the Commission recommends adopting four: 1, 3, 4 and 5 and rejecting the 2nd and 6th proposals. Of course, the committee also voted against rejecting the project in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u398	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 192. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that the proposal be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u399	High Seym! Prime Minister! Why do we not have a government representation on such an important matter as the division of tasks and powers within the government? After all, the most obvious feature of this law is your reiterade of responsibility for the shape of the government and the division of tasks. However, the most frequently repeated term is the division of spoils. How else do you call the idea of PiS Members for a new department - state assets - created in the shape of Sesame with a thousand and one company, with you, Mr Sasin, Vice Prime Minister, who is a fairytale Alibaby? Except the treasure line isn't 40, it's hundreds of robbers, because there's so many positions on the boards and boards to fill. We have a question. Please, we appeal to the Prime Minister. Throw that bill in the trash, take the courage, and make your own proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u400	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 215 was for, against - 237, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 400h. 2 Environmental law law applicants propose not to add point 4a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. For - 235, 185 - against, 33 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4d Act on Public Use and Volunteering propose not to give a new wording of paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! In this amendment, applicants request the withdrawal of the changes introduced under the coat, under the cover of the Law on Departments, going beyond its purpose. Namely, the idea is to deprive the Senate of the exclusive in the case of the traditional prerogatives of the upper chamber, i.e. cooperation with Polonia. In particular, it is about transferring the money allocated to its nominate at the Prime Minister's firm. Why? Is it just greed or jealousy about the powers of the Senate and its power? Thank you, Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u402	Thank you, Member. We're coming... Sorry, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment was not in the parliamentary submission, it was tabled yesterday during the work of the committee. According to the Legislative Office, it goes beyond matter, but has been adopted by the committee by a majority of the members of the Law and Justice. So far, the Senate has dealt with Polish affairs, and now these competences... It's not about that. But this is the wrong amendment. This is your amendment. Which one? Sorry, that's not it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u404	I understand you made a mistake. Yes? I'm sorry. Yes. We're voting. There was no question, Minister. Good. Thank you, sir. Yes, but the state brought me in... This is your amendment. I'm just saying on the principle... At this moment, you simply want to take over the funds that are in the Senate, also for the Prime Minister, for the Minister. I therefore have a question, Prime Minister. How much money have you spent to support Polonia? Talk to Sikorski. How much of this money will you give to the Minister responsible for cooperation with Polonia, and how much will you leave in the Senate? [[Applause]] Thank you. The answer will be given to Minister Michał Dworczyk, a representative of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the Head of the Office. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you not to mislead the public. No one takes away the possibility of taking care of Polonia and Poles abroad, on the contrary. Thieves. It is the Law and Justice that increases the means for cooperation with our fellow countrymen outside the country. Now you're taking it. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment sanctiones something that still happens, because cooperation with Poles and Polonia is conducted by the executive authority: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, other ministries and the President of the Council of Ministers. We therefore sanction the existing situation. Knock on the head. I hope you are not protesting that the Government of Law and Justice supports Polonia and Poles outside the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] A combo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u406	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 206 - for, against - 237, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Granda. In the third amendment, applicants propose among others. give a new wording to the paragraph. Article 3 164 Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 236 - for, against - 207, 8 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 106 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes to amend paragraph 1. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 283 was for, against - 133, 32 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 111 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 235 was for, against - 132, 84 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 114 of the draft amending act propose that the law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 208 - for, against - 236, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before that question. Mr Michał Grammar? Grammar. Michael Grammar. I'm sorry, but I have a handwriting and I can't always read it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be modest and without unnecessary bureaucracy. It was supposed to be a thin and cost-effective structure. There's almost a record number of governments and there's extra boys. Supervisory boards of special economic zones, Poczta Polska, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, Agencja Miań Wojowego are swelling. New jobs and positions, in short: PiS, in development cooperation councils, Łukasiewicz Research Network, National Centre for Research and Development, etc. with every article of this bill. The promises of Prime Minister Morawiecki we all remember here, quote: not quantity, and quality, we start with each other. So where's your quality? Where is the thin and economical structure? Where are humility and moderation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I was moved by this story.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u408	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 192, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Your marshal, that was my question. Excuse me, there was a question. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 235 was in favor, 214 against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on government departments and certain other laws. We'll proceed with the review of the point... Your marshal, you didn't let me ask you a question. I'm sorry, sir, but there was no information. I've been asked a question. What question? I've been notified. It's been handed over. I had no information, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Your marshal, I volunteered, too. All right, guys, come on, the vote's over. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification (print No 189). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 90. 1 and Article 1 Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, presented a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in the codifications. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I don't hear any objection... No, your marshal, I volunteered. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u409	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In line with the arrangements adopted at the Bureau meeting and the Seniors' Convention in which I attended, the number of members per committee for each club and circle depends on the number of members. Mathematical calculations show that for the Female Confederation Circle in each small committee, round of course, there are zero members, or zero members. I'm not arguing, I'm just really into math and I figured it'd be the ninth little committee. Since each committee has about 17 members, and this is the ninth small committee, we have 153 members of all small committees for 460 Members, i.e. that every third Member is a member of a small committee, i.e. one third of the Member of Law and Justice sits on a small committee, one third of the Member of the Civic Platform sits on a small committee, one third of the Member of the Left Club sits on a small committee, one third of the Member of the PSL sits on a small committee. As far as the Confederation is concerned, there are 11 Members. Because you don't even have 15. Don't turn the guitar around. I always thought I was good at math, and I'm not doing anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u410	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution contained in print No 189 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 434 for, 10 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in the codifications. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 190). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. At the same time, the Bureau of the Sejm requests that a change be made to the print submitted by the election of Mr Grzegorz Gaży to the personal composition of the Committee on Public Finance. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. There you go. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u411	High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! To begin with, a request to hold proceedings at such a rate that we are allowed to vote in accordance with the requests. For the second time, there has been a situation in which one of us applies either to a formal application or to a parliamentary statement or to a question and is not read. My question about the law reciting the Ministry of Treasury. In 2016, when it was liquidated, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki was Minister of Finance. The official justification was that within 10 years there would be a billion savings. Annually, 100 million savings in connection with the liquidation of the Treasury Ministry. It's been exactly three years and it's being played today. My question is: Over the last three years, Prime Minister - Prime Minister, can I ask your attention - has 300 million savings been promised in connection with the liquidation of the Ministry over the last three years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u412	Thank you, sir. That's not exactly where it is. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 190, along with the proposed amendment, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 434 - for, 2 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 11 hours 20 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 16 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: Road safety status and activities carried out in this respect in 2018 with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure. Please, Mr Sosnierz, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, will take the floor. Is Mr Sosnierz here? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A little bit of a two-hour break in the debate was out of order. Back to road safety, back to the report. We just accept the data. I don't know what the citizens' coalition's motion to reject this report makes sense, because the data isn't discussed. The data is accepted, that's all. The problem is rather with the interpretation of these data. Here data is interpreted differently. We know the number of accidents is still falling. It is a trend for many years a constant, but each subsequent row He's just trying to take credit for it. Every government in the world thinks it's because of him that he's trying to make these accidents less and less. Meanwhile, data analysis shows that this trend is consistent, insensitive to any legislative change, any attempts, constant modifications, parking tickets, speed cameras, that, that. Nothing, it seems, doesn't significantly affect it, the trend is more or less stable. On the other hand, we have a misunderstanding regarding the interpretation of the statistics from the previous ones, but probably no longer present, colleagues from the old opposition. A few examples. Mr Lasek probably interpreted it this way: an increased number of rear-facing accidents involve people driving too fast and keeping too short distances. But since this number has increased, it would have to mean that people drive faster or keep less distance than before. There's no evidence of that. This diagnosis seems to be wrong. My theory would be that maybe it's the growing popularity of smartphones that makes people more likely to drive in the back of the front vehicle, not the fact that they're driving faster now, because it seems ridiculous. Perhaps the percentage increase in the number of such accidents is also due to a faster than proportional decrease in other categories. Such reckless learning from dry data seems inappropriate. Similarly, the proportion of different accidents in the total number of accidents seems to be misinterpreted by subsequent speakers from the opposition. I believe Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bak - but I think Mr Lasek also - found the increasing share of accidents involving seniors to be worrying. Oh, no. More seniors drive, society gets old. Therefore, the proportion of accidents involving seniors is also higher. If we all shaved our heads tomorrow, the share of bald accidents would suddenly increase, but not because bald ones drive worse, just because there are more in society. Therefore, let us not interpret the facts in this way and raise the alarm where it is not necessary. You're calling for a look at this problem. No, let's read the data with understanding. If the number of any category of accidents is falling, then the remaining percentage is increasing, right? If we are especially fighting some category of accidents or something has changed, e.g. in the quality of roads, the number of some category of accidents is falling, it is another one increasing. There's nothing disturbing about it again, or there's not necessarily something disturbing. Such an interpretation of data is really reprehensible. The simplest way to understand It's an example. If we invent a cancer pill tomorrow, people will stop dying of cancer overnight, so they're gonna start dying more often of all the other diseases. And again, someone who doesn't understand statistics is gonna start alarming that, for God's sake, more people are dying of other diseases. What happened? It happened that we eliminated one factor from the pool of factors. Same here. If the number of accidents falls, there's nothing disturbing about the fact that the proportions between them are changing. It's just that the number of people falls faster and the number of people falls slower. Those who again want to justify road looting and some further restrictions, some more parking tickets, some further restrictions on road traffic, because some proportions are changing, let them go back to primary school first and start reading statistics with understanding. I'm not surprised Mr. Lasek didn't put up with his time on the committee as he doesn't understand such simple things. Here, the drop rate drops over time, right? This is asymptote - the closer we are to zero, the less accidents, the slower the rate of drop is. It's hard to keep falling at the same rate all the time, because it would have reached negative values. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's been five minutes? I still have a lot to say. I think I lost something out of my time prematurely. So that the Confederation will of course take note of these data, but we do not take note of their view as justification for the next regulation, because there is nothing disturbing about this data. The number of accidents is falling, road safety is rising, so let's not gmur in what works well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u414	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u415	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking road safety. We are also talking about the fact that we want to guarantee the priority of pedestrians. But, ladies and gentlemen, an example comes from above. On November 4 in Kozienice, the driver hit an older woman on a pedestrian crossing. Turns out the woman with the injuries went to the hospital and died there. The driver wasn't a random person. The driver is Deputy Director General of the Prison Service, Colonel Arthur Dziadosz. Colonel Arthur Dziadosz appeared in the presence of Deputy Minister Michał Wójcik at the Human Rights Committee meeting on 15 January. He hasn't been suspended so far. He's been doing his job so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that how you want to fight pirates? Is that how you want to set an example? There was an accident in the pedestrian passage, an old woman died... Finish your work, sir. ...and the Prime Minister says: we will guarantee priority to pedestrians in a situation where... Thank you. Thank you. ...you're not doing anything about it. The D.A. hasn't filed any charges so far. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u416	Thank you, sir. Just stick to the time. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Data on the number of road accidents and fatalities resulting from these accidents in Poland are alarming. In 2018, 2862 people died on roads in Poland and in 2019 this figure was almost identical. It is so, ladies and gentlemen, as if every year one small town disappears from the map of Poland, e.g. the size of Kazimierz Dolny, or 20 passenger planes filled with only Poles crashed each year. In his exposé, the Prime Minister announced measures on pedestrian protection. What's happened? For two months after the announcement? Nothing. And let me remind you that on 21 November, a draft amendment to the law aimed at protecting pedestrians was tabled by the Members of the Civic Coalition. But PiS hasn't considered it appropriate to take care of this project so far. Do you know what parents in Poland are most afraid of when a child goes to school alone? Not a gender monster and not a rainbow Friday, as you thought. We, parents, are most afraid of the city rushing, having regulations and parking tickets for a car driver who may not slow down in time. It's about time you understood that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There's no envoy. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask a question as a driver, but also as a pedestrian and a cyclist. These pedestrians and cyclists are not so much in the debate on road traffic and safety. I have this triple perspective, too, because six times a day I go through a six-lane road on my way to school with my kids. And there's always a driver who wants to run me over. That's why I really want to improve road safety. I can never help but think what a fool was trying to run me over. But you have to look at the statistics. As I looked at this report, statistics show that, above all, the threat to seniors has increased. I have a question for the government, for the Minister. How does the government want to improve the safety of seniors? Because you don't have to be nervous (the bell) about those who drive badly, but make safety inevitable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u420	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Minister Weber brought to absurdity the idea of the absolute priority of pedestrians before the transition. He asked if it meant that the pedestrian would be able to pass through the door with his eyes closed and without thinking. Not at all, Minister. All you have to do is remember the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki of the Exposé when he said, "We will put the pedestrians ahead of the crossing. So my question is, what is the future of this project? Who are we supposed to believe about this? Prime Minister Morawiecki or representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u422	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have a question: Have the specialists preparing the document on road safety and the activities carried out in this area, examining the causes of road accidents, also taken into account whether any impact on the cause of road accidents could have been on the driver's use of day-riding lights from the driver's side of the vehicle rather than on the driver's usual use of passing beams? The regulations in our country, of course, allow the use of daylights during the day, with good visibility, of course, instead of passing beams. But many Polish drivers are still complaining that cars driving on daylights are less visible when passing out than vehicles with passing beams on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have you carried out this analysis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u424	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No child was killed on the roads in 2019 in Norway. In Poland, according to the report, the number of deaths among children has increased, and it is noticeably so. The pedestrians are not protected from car bodies, from the laws of physics and unfortunately from the law on road traffic. We are in fifth place in terms of the number of victims per million inhabitants, fifth from the end. And this is actually our real national tragedy. The fall is slow, unfortunately the construction of motorways is also slow. When will we see a situation like that in Norway? When an accident, as the name says, is an accident, not a daily one? When will standards arise, mandatory safety standards for road users? When are we going to deal with the unconditional principle of pedestrian priority? When will there be inevitable punishments for lawbreakers? There was a lot of talk about this in the Prime Minister's exposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, no action is being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u426	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u427	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about road safety, which is not in our country. The PiS government hasn't done much for four years to create this security, improve it. Accidents and collisions are dramas about hundreds of thousands of families. In today's paper, you're showing that your statistics are dropping, but look how much. In the number of collisions - 55, in the number of deaths - 68. You compare 2010 with 2018, you cheat Poles. Because how many kilometers of express roads, highways were in 2010 and how many were completed in 2018? And how many have you built in the last four years? It is difficult to talk today about the report, about the initiative, about improving security. When will your government implement effective solutions to improve security in cities, in voivodship, in Łódź voivodship? It's hard to talk about here. In this respect, I ask you: Do you envisage taking account of the amendments made to the budget concerning the modernisation or the construction of a widely understood (Dawn) sports infrastructure? Because it is these consequences that these amendments can contribute to the improvement of safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u428	Thank you very much, Member. Here you go, Catherine Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poznań, statistics on fatal pedestrian deductions on pedestrian crossings are alarming. These numbers are rising. Last year there were eight fatal deductions in pedestrian crossings, and that was more than in the entire five years before. I wanted to ask if there was a planned social campaign at local level, run by local public television, warning or reminding drivers of what the Prime Minister had provided us with in his exposé, namely the priority for pedestrian crossings. Can I expect that there will be funds for such a social campaign? The second problem - in the case of Poznań - is that the number of accidents on the roundabouts is increasing. In Poznań at the roundabout Śródka there were 151 deductions, accidents last year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the roundabout of Kaponiera, recently renovated for PLN 350 million, there were 70 deductions. What's she like... What are the conclusions of the analysis that the police are drawing? Don't renovate the roundabout. What's faulty over there? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u430	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u431	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that the Ministry of Infrastructure has begun to notice the safety problem on Polish roads. However, the Ministry behaves like a doctor who, while seeing a patient, describes his temperature and other ailments, but at the same time does not diagnose and initiate treatment. The National Road Safety Council report doesn't say anything, it's another page of terrifying statistics. The task of the state should be to ensure the safety of all of us. In this connection, I have a question: When do we get to know the Ministry's detailed plans for the proposed amendments to the Traffic Code, especially those concerning pedestrian safety? We need to give priority to pedestrians, better infrastructure and education. It's not secret knowledge. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u432	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rząsa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u433	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Road safety is not a debate about numbers, although these are terrifying: 10 960 people severely injured, 2862 fatalities. All these indicators are not numbers, they're human tragedies, it's a traumatic experience, disability, death of loved ones. Let us not forget this, all the more so because unfortunately Poland is still in the European Union among countries that have the highest rate of death. The Podkarpackie region, which I have the honour to represent, looks positive in relation to the rest of the country in terms of road safety, but there is one of the highest, which is negative in distinguishing them, indicators of accidents caused by young drivers and accidents involving cyclists. The rate of accidents involving pedestrians is also very high, i.e. those most likely to have the most tragic consequences. Therefore, Minister, please answer my question: What actions is the government planning to take, and as a teacher, I particularly care about educational activities, apart from the existing solutions (the Bell), in order to really reduce the number of car accidents caused by young drivers and accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u434	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to statistics, the number of people killed on the roads increased during the rule of law and justice in 2017. Particular attention is drawn to the increase in the number of victims in the 60+ age group and the third consecutive year increase in the number of deaths in pedestrian crossings, which should be the safest. Since 2015 it is up to 16% more tragedy. As a result, we are dealing with family dramas and road events, medical care and funerals. According to data for 2018, this is about PLN 56.5 billion. I would like to ask three of the following questions: Why is the number of deaths increasing despite better roads? Why, despite the tightening of the penal code against drunk drivers, the rules today are very sharp, the number of drunk drivers is increasing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last question: Why do you accept that on Polish roads cards are handed out by drunk drivers and road pirates?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u436	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During your speech, you mentioned the educational actions you intend to carry out. I would like to ask you what they will depend on. Of course, education is a very important element, but I think it's worth introducing some systemic changes in education so that it can introduce safety elements, especially road safety, so that children can imagine what might happen on the road from their early years on in order to increase their awareness. I ask you to think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I realize that accidents and collisions are and will probably also happen in the future. It is worth doing everything we can to reduce them very much. On the one hand, This is obviously an excessive bravado. This is, for example, the number of cases involving the Prime Minister's speakers or the President. Two of these had their share in Oświęcim not long ago. The important thing is that we eliminate infrastructure gaps, which are also causing major risks. In 2016, in Oświęcim, Minister, in Zaborz, the General Directorate agreed that it was necessary at the intersection of national road 44 from ul. Lake building additional belts, lighting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, it was four years before the General Directorate announced the tender. This is the rate of elimination of gigantic threats. I am talking about a road that has a load of several thousand vehicles a day, where there is an extraordinary threat to pedestrian safety, but also drivers, where we have a mass of accidents and incidents. Why is it taking so long? Without eliminating these threats, we will not improve the situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. not only as a Member, but also as a member of the Maritime Automobile Club in Gdynia, an organisation which, in its 1936 Statute, has a record of education in the field of road safety. Sweden is the country with the lowest number of road accidents in the world. In 1997, the Swedish Parliament set up a foundation to support road safety initiatives to develop the so-called. vision zero, i.e. total elimination of fatalities by 2050. Vision zero assumes that the faults for causing the accident are not solely on the driver's side, and road designers and car designers are also responsible. The question is: Are the state institutions called upon to take care of road safety issues really drawing examples from vision zero solutions? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u442	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u443	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I'm a little surprised at the belief here that the laws that give priority to the law will protect anyone from danger. First of all, infrastructure. The experiences of many countries, but also cities in Poland, show that where safe infrastructure is built, there are simply no accidents. From this side you have to act first. And the question to the Minister: Does the Ministry plan to implement any actions related to another approach to building infrastructure, such an approach that will ensure safety because of how problems on the road are technically solved? And the second question is about the lights. Is the Ministry planning to change the rules (the bell) which would lead to the extension of the green light, which is absolutely crucial, especially for seniors and people who have limited mobility opportunities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u444	Thank you very much. The Lord Paul Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, security: yes, but how can you talk about safety when in the Podlaskie Voivodeship through Białystok - Augustów every day through 3,000. Trucks and five days a week, little kids cut through that road on their way to school? Physics laws are inevitable and there are many accidents, including fatal ones. Where are the bypasses that the Prime Minister promised in his exposé, over 100 bypasses? We would like to hear how many of these bypasses will rise in Podlaskie Voivodeship. First of all, we must take care of the state of the infrastructure, then we will take care of the safety of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u446	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica... Let's go. ... Wave, Left. I'm sorry. I've been looking for you in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u447	Good morning. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The report is officially presented by the President of the Council of Ministers, so I am formally addressing my questions to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! Iława is one of the most important rail transport hubs in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, as well as in this part of the country. You're probably wondering why I'm talking about the railroad when we're talking road safety. 'Cause security is what's going on here. There are two railroad crossings in the city, both collision crossings, both secured only by corners. According to the latest assumptions, pendolino, which passes through Iława, is expected to develop speeds of 200 km/h. Local authorities in Iława, but also in many other places in Poland, face the fact that they have brought a real communication threat on the inhabitants. No one talks to local authorities, does not propose cooperation and financing of safe communication solutions that could eliminate (the bell) traffic hazards. Prime Minister! Do you provide for the transfer of special resources to local authorities for the adaptation of road crossings through railway routes after the maximum speed is increased on the tracks? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u448	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question to the Minister of Infrastructure about the reasons for the significant inhibition of downward trends in most long-term indicators in 2015 and 2018 compared to the trends in 2009 and 2015. That's the first question. Second: What is the reason for the increase of most of the above mentioned. indicators in 2016? I was just looking for that data. I didn't find it in the report. The effectiveness of preventive measures shall be assessed from a perspective of several years. Four years seems to be sufficient for such an assessment. On the other hand, the report is assessed on the basis of data, these data look reliable, but it is also assessed on the basis of analysis and proposed prevention. If an analysis is carried out wrongly, prevention may be missed. As for Mr Dobromir Sosnier - unfortunately, he is not in the Chamber... I'll pass it on. ...then I just wanted to point out that it is worth expressing myself within the scope of my competence, and I do not know any report from the aviation accident investigation under which you would sign. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u450	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion, the discussion that concerns the road safety situation in 2018. And if we're talking about safety, if we're talking about accidents, if we're talking about casualties, then it's hard not to have such a discussion cause emotion, because where there's drama, where there's human misery, where there's tragedy, there's got to be these emotions too. However, we approach security - it seems to me that this is how we have to approach - cold, emotions must be on the sidelines, all actions that are implemented, regardless of who does this, whether the government of the present Law and Justice, or the government of earlier times, must be done without emotions, emotions must be done alongside these actions, and then it will be effective. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank those who, using the data from this report, did so in a reliable manner. The numbers can't be lied to, the numbers show a certain picture, a certain statistics. Where there are inheritances, there are inheritances, where there are growths, there are growths. And I am very pleased with these statements, which showed the true state of safety on Polish roads in 2018. Unfortunately, however, not all such speeches in this discussion, whether now or before the break, were used with real data. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to divide this answer into two segments: to answer questions and to refer to the speeches that were presented during the club speeches, and to the questions of individuals, first and second, to focus on the future. Many of you have stressed one thing that statistics and the past, yes, but we also need to implement further road safety measures so that we continue to build a sense of safety both among vulnerable road users and drivers. Thus, as regards the answers to questions, the issues raised by you in this discussion, many of you stressed the issue of moving away from the objectives of the National Road Safety Programme, while this showed the departure of the rule of law and justice in the years. If someone wants to accurately evaluate this statistics and impose data from 2013 and 2018 on the intentions, i.e. those objectives set in the National Road Safety Programme, they must state that they have passed from the very beginning. Already in 2013, there was a very large, remote reality in relation to the intentions, that is, at the very beginning of this national program we had to deal with mijanka, which later over the years also lasted. I would also like to ask you to be informed that from the very beginning we had a problem with fulfilling the objective of the National Road Safety Programme, both in terms of the number of accidents, the number of seriously injured and the number of people killed. That's where this crazy thing's been from the very beginning. Many of you stressed that safety is affected by secure infrastructure and investments that are already in existence and, of course, the construction of new road tracks, the construction of high-speed roads. And that's what's been happening in recent years. Today we had a discussion on this at the Committee on Infrastructure. Moreover, at the last meeting of the Sejm - we also had a discussion at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the subject. We talked about the fact that even in 2019 it was put into service 460 km of new roads. In four years, it's over 1,000. Highway roads, including bypasses with GP standard put into service. And this process is still there, it's going on. $1,000. The kilometers are in progress, another 1 000. in preparation, more than 4,000. Roads already dedicated, already used by drivers and this certainly affects safety. I agree with that. But let's give reality, give the truth. This process is continuous, it's still going on, and I'm sure we'll continue. On the other hand, as regards the modernisation of the existing network, between November 2015 and January 2020 more than 890 investment programmes on networks. The total amount of expenditure is over PLN 14 billion. It is a modernization of roads consisting of strengthening capacity, but it is also the construction of pavements, construction of walk-bike lines, construction of coves, construction of roundabouts, construction of light signalling. It's all happening, and it's all affecting road safety. Further tasks are tasks carried out with government support by local governments. 90% After all, the entire network in Poland is local and municipal roads. I'll mention the Self-Government Road Fund here. In 2019, 6 billion PLN. Earlier programmes: the year 2018-1300 million PLN, the year 2017-800 million PLN, the year 2016-800 million PLN. So that these funds are used by local authorities, and as I said at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, where the project contains elements related to the BRD, which I mentioned earlier, there it has a better chance of obtaining such funding and even the certainty of obtaining it. The state of local roads is also improving and with the participation of the Self-Government Road Fund, but also with the participation of the programme under the general subsidy reserve, which has also been implemented over the last few years. Ladies and gentlemen! Educational elements. These educational elements are implemented and addressed to the elderly. There's a program under the name Safe Senior. Here, too, many of you referred to the greater participation of seniors in the structure of accidents. Such a project is implemented, even there is a special website dedicated to this project - señornadrodze.pl. During 2019 we covered 94 powiats. Talking, discussing, building more awareness about the rights and obligations that result from Traffic Law, all road users, because the senior is a pedestrian, the senior is a cyclist, but the senior is also a driver of the car. So that these elements related to the education of seniors are being conducted. Similarly, when it comes to preschool education. The change in the education system, which took place in 2017, was also used by us to include the content of communication education, which has been implemented since kindergarten, through primary school, until high school. So these issues of education are also very important and they are being pursued. Investment, education and the third issue - the law, that is to say, I will already focus on this intention of the three legislative changes that will be implemented in the near future. Pedestrian priority. I am very pleased that the three Members who spoke at the committee's meeting about the absolute primacy of pedestrians no longer use this word 'absolute' today. One member of the Left, who unfortunately does not exist, uses this phrase all the time, which - I repeat once again - is wrong to exist and will not be right to exist. not only in legislation, but I also hope in awareness, especially of pedestrians. I am very pleased that, to a large extent, this information was provided and that the Infrastructure Committee meeting related to this programme was held, and two days later a team meeting took place. There was also a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, present in the room director Romik. There we came to many with this message that we are not talking about ruthless priority for pedestrians. We will introduce priority for pedestrians at the moment of entering the pedestrian crossing. When a pedestrian is waiting, he will express his intention to enter the pedestrian crossing, he will stand in the pedestrian crossing area, then he will have the priority, but he will be obliged to take special care, or he will be obliged to make sure that the pedestrian crossing does not threaten him. I hope that those who speak of this ruthless primacy for pedestrians today will be convinced by us that we should not do this. The next aim of this project is to harmonise speed. Today the maximum speed in the built-in area in hours. • 5 to 60km/h and at 2.00 p.m. Five hundred and twenty-three is 50 kilometers an hour. We are the only country that has such diversity. In this project, we want to standardize it, calm it down, detonate it, and cover the maximum speed in the built-up area, which will be 50 km/h around the clock. The third assumption of this project is to stop the driving licence for speeding in an unbuilt area by more than 50 km/h. At the moment such a provision exists in relation to the built-in area. In our view, it has positive effects, so we want to widen it. In general, our legislative action will be aimed at calming the traffic, stopping the bravado on the roads, increasing the awareness that speed kills, that speed is dangerous and that the slower we drive, the safer we will be. Of course, the law also provides for a 9-month period of vacathio legis in order to first go to society with these changes. We have a plan for such an extensive educational effort, we have an idea, we know where we're going to get funding for this. I hope that we will be given this type of action over the coming months, so that all road users will know about the changes that will be made in the near future. We will continue to implement strengthening investments in terms of pedestrian transitions. We're planning a project to invest pedestrian transitions, and the principle of lighting them up. Such a project was carried out in the last year, in 2019 in Małopolska Voivodeship and brought incredible results. You can see them now, even if you are watching the streets in the city of Andrychów. I'm really impressed with what was done there. We want these pedestrian crossings, which are extremely dangerous, which are on national roads, which is managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, also to be illuminated, marked, so that pedestrians can be seen when they stand in front of this pedestrian crossing and want to use it, wants to enter. So that the law is one thing, educational actions are the other, investment in road infrastructure on an even larger scale is the third. And then there's the fourth issue, which is control. There are those who demand that there are much more cameras on Polish roads than there are now. There are organizations that insist on settling up to 2,000 online. Photo-radio cameras. Our proposal is not that far-reaching, we used the Motor Transport Institute to carry out a thorough analysis of the most dangerous places, those where the greatest number of accidents occurred, where there were the most casualties, even fatalities, where drivers mostly broke the laws, crossing the speed limit. And in these 26 selected, new places at the end of this year will be located photoradars. On the other hand, other elements of the strengthening of control are staggered speed measurements, such as red light pass recorders, crossings, but also rail crossings. So that we already have a programme in place, which also strengthens control, ensuring compliance with traffic laws. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One of your fellow Members - at the very end, for the sake of clarification - has said that recently, in recent years, there has been an increase in the tariff holder of criminal mandates. Well, this taxi driver hasn't increased in 20 years. For 20 years, we've had the same parking tickets for road crossings. The maximum financial penalty at the moment is 500 PLN. This is what it's been like for 20 years, so that the claim that has been made here is simply not true. Thank you very much to all those who care about safety on Polish roads on a daily basis. I would like to thank all the partners of the National Road Safety Council. Thank you, Mr Romik, to the Members who still want to listen at this hour and... What about the green lights? Green lights. And we're on our way to the end, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...they want to talk about it. I hope that our joint actions will improve safety on Polish roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u452	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 4th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I'll close the list then. And please, Mrs Monica Falej has the first floor... Wanda Nowicka, I'm sorry. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Wanda Nowick, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u453	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! My statement concerns the health of the miners, but before I mention it, I must publicly express my regrets about the fact that the PiS-owska majority has just adopted An outrageous muzzle bill that limited judicial independence. Minister Ziobro does not stop trying to take all the judges under the shoes and take full control of the justice system. And this is the next step in his shameful intentions. Members of the PIS rejoiced, clapped, screamed: the Constitution, hit success. But for us citizens and citizens, it's not funny. The rule of law in Poland becomes illusory and in a moment we will all feel the consequences of the wrong law. And the reputation of Poland in the international arena falls to ashes. And now my main statement. The Higher Mining Authority on 9 January made available a safety report in 2019 in Polish mining. The statistics presented here are very disturbing. They show that more and more miners, about 20%, die at a young age. And these aren't deaths from accidents. According to the calculations of the Higher Mining Authority, in the last 2 years 25 miners died of natural causes as many as five are people between the ages of 21 and 40. As you know, miners are particularly exposed to heavy physical exertion, extremely difficult working conditions, including in recent years increasingly high temperatures. They also work in a situation of oxygen deficiency, in a heavily pollinated and humid space. According to the Higher Mining Authority, the main cause of registered natural deaths was a myocardial infarction with subsequent acute cardiopulmonary failure in 2015. Importantly, the statistics presented also apply to workers who died within one month of the date of the last medical examination. Unfortunately, the current legal requirements relating to the medical examination of workers and the scope of preventive health care of workers do not impose obligations on the employer to carry out preventive measures aimed at reducing the number of natural deaths, although no one will deny that it is working in particularly difficult conditions, and employers, as you can see, do not put enough weight on their own. Young people die because someone is trying to save money, and such savings cost human life. This is a situation that cannot be put on the agenda. We live in the 21st century, so happily not in the mid-19th century, when the health and life of an employee was not worth much. Since then, we have come a long way and there is no excuse for employers who save on research, prevention and improvement of working conditions. The creation of legislation imposing specific obligations on employers to subject workers to preventive measures to reduce the number of natural deaths should be addressed as soon as possible. Because human life has no price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u454	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fetor from garbage disposal prevents residents from living their normal lives in Poland. Example: Zabrze and its inhabitants. In the fall. The process of hermeticization in the regional municipal waste plant of FCC at ul. was to be completed in Zabrze. A cemetery. Thanks to this investment, the bad stench was supposed to disappear in the city centre, which has been poisoning people for several years. The subject of odor has become one of the main social problems for the inhabitants of Zabrza over the last years. This problem has been addressed on several occasions in the city council sessions, in local and regional press, in social media. It was also the cause of many protests and blockades organized on the road to the company or before the city office by Zabrzane socialists. In September Ub. R. FCC spokesperson quoted in the local press said that a new part of the biological waste treatment plant, consisting of a new operating hall, compost tunnels and a fan room together with an air treatment system, is ready. The spokesperson also assured that the last final modernization works of existing tunnels will begin immediately as soon as the company receives an integrated permit from the Marshal's office. At the end of October Ub. President Zabrza asked the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship to engage in the matter in order to bring it to an end as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the company still has not been granted an integrated permit, which does not allow the completion of this investment. However, unofficial information shows that this investment, very expected by the inhabitants of Zabrze, is not fully implemented in accordance with environmental regulations and therefore cannot be completed. This situation is unacceptable to me. Such situations should be governed by appropriate law, acting both ways: both in relation to a company whose activities prevent normal life for people and in relation to authorities controlling such activities. Therefore, on behalf of the inhabitants of Zabrze and other cities, I ask the Minister responsible for helping to resolve this situation at present. I would also like to know who is responsible for the delays involved in carrying out this investment in Zabrze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u456	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a person from the local government community, I would like to draw attention to the condition of local government units. According to the calculations of the Association of Polish Cities, due to tax changes in 2020 local governments will go to local governments by 7.2 billion PLN less. Many municipalities in Poland had to give up investments such as construction or modernization of municipal apartments and kindergartens, expansion of heating, water supply, repair of roads, sidewalks, bicycle paths or exchange programs. Local governments are also looking for savings by reducing or eliminating cultural and educational programmes. Current expenditure, such as street cleaning, lighting and planting, is also reduced. While the overall revenue of the public sector as a whole is increasing due to tax participation, attention should be paid to facts which are very often overlooked in the discussion on this subject. The financial situation of local governments is influenced by factors such as increasing public service costs, increasing investment costs and a higher percentage of financial authorities, educational tasks. The President of the Republic of Poland in a letter on the occasion of the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Polish Towns Association identified local governments as one of the pillars of Polish democracy and modern state, strong energy of its citizens, stressing that strengthening local democracy and creating its conditions for stable operation is one of the priorities of its presidency. In his letter on Local Government Day, the President stressed that a concerted cooperation between government and local government is a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the state and serves citizens best. Therefore, on behalf of local government, I ask the Prime Minister to take into account the arguments they have prepared and to identify legal solutions to compensate local government units for lost income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u458	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u459	God bless you! Again. These are really sterile sound conditions, perfect. Yeah, 'cause maybe some people are watching this broadcast right now, maybe having trouble sleeping... Maybe somebody else will use that material someday. The seym is almost completely empty. I speak in the mode of the parliamentary statement, because it is necessary to dictate to the protocol. Scripta manent. It is a matter of a non-negotiable, non-offset and de facto non-parlamentary procedure for the purchase of a multi-purpose F-35 aircraft for the Polish Army. That's a great machine. I would like to say at first that it is clear to all, how few listeners, that I am passionate about aviation, that I do not have any sentiment, a prejudice that my heart has been beating alive since I was a child, when I see such a beautiful machine, such a wonderful product of technical thought, the achievement of humanity. But the thing is, this summer before the American Congress, the U.S. generality on the committee that's dealing with as serious matters as purchasing policy for the U.S. empire's aviation... These generals asked politely not to give these F-35s anymore, because they would prefer the F-15. It's old, but it's hot. A plane of several generations older, but less emergency, efficient, so you can have more for the same money in combat readiness. From the 48 Polish F-16, you literally claim at the meeting of the National Defence Committee - well, before the official beginning of the meeting - that 75% According to NATO agreements, it is capable of action. My swallows tell me it's completely different. The question is, how would it be with the F-35, if there's no offset, and every spare part will have to come from the United States, which is already happening in the F-16. The National Defense Commission or the High House doesn't want to know anything about this. Committee on National Defence - closed meetings, yesterday's quorum interrupted by representation of the parliamentary majority in this committee. Today, completely ineffective requests for the National Defence Commission to get some minimum information about this contract. So I am dictating to the protocol that the High House does not know what the Minister of Defence has already announced - he wants to allocate 30 billion from the state budget in the coming days, because it is a contract, an intergovernmental agreement, and therefore an excuse to make without a tender. Is this really how these things are to be handled? The defense committee doesn't know anything, so the High House can't know anything about it. From this tribune there are fights for measurable amounts in zlotys, sometimes even every penny, and rightly, if it is expenditure from the state budget, public money. But this is about 30 billion PLN. The National Defense Committee didn't even get an A4 card that says what we're spending this money on. I repeat, A4 cards weren't on the subject. There is a conspiracy, alliances over divisions, representatives of both sides of this House vote in favour of the National Defence Commission not demanding any information on this subject. So this is a political action. He's not a determiner of the Polish Army's business. They are not the determinant of technical parameters. These are all apparently secondary issues (the bell) with regard to a political decision that may cost unknown how many future generations. Thank you very much, sir. It was dictated to protocol. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u460	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Górski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u461	Dear Marshal! High Seym! 3 February 2020 marks the 157th anniversary of the Battle of Hungary, one of the biggest battles of the January Uprising, called Polish Thermopylae by writers and poets such as Maria Konopnicka, Cyprian Kamil Norwid and August Barbier. Representing the inhabitants of the district of Hungary in the High House, I would like to remind you of the heroism and dedication shown by the insurgents of January, participants of the Battle of Hungary, fighting for freedom with the Russian possessor. Here I would like to remind you of the figures of the commanders of the insurgent forces fighting under Hungary. It was Jan Matlinski's dog. Falcon and Władysław Jabłonowski ps. Genoa. They deserve special recognition, who with their heroic attack on the Russian guns signed up permanently on blood-stained pages of Polish history. In Hungary, 3.5 thousand people attended the news of the national uprising. Insurgents. In the first days of February 1863, even before the main phase of the battle, there were several fights between the insurgents and the Russians. On February 3, in the morning, the main Russian forces under the command of Gieorgija Papaafanasopulo arrived on the outskirts of the city from more than 30 km away. The warlords started firing cannons at the Hungarians. Thanks to the courageous attack of Polish kosiniers on Russian cannons, which was a bold tactical movement, the remaining part of the insurgents, with more than 2 thousand. people, could successfully withdraw from Hungary. This battle took a bloody toll on both sides of the conflict. A grave of insurgents is located in Hungary, where 63 dead were buried. On the burial site there is a large boulder, a quiet guardian of local history, set in 1917 by Hungarian residents and surrounding towns, by the power of their hands. There are significant words on the stone: "On your ashes, from the fields of Polish stone, they raise by the memory of the grateful generations. And although this inscription was etched more than 100 years ago, the memory of the participants of those events continues to this day. For years at the monument, the Hungarian Boy Scouts have made their promise, they have also done so during the communism period, continuing to worship the traditions of their ancestors. Every year there are numerous celebrations, as well as reconstructions of the battle. I would like to emphasize here, in the Seym of the Republic of Poland, how important it is to remember the actions of our ancestors and to draw from the values which they were guided by, to draw from their love for their homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u462	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u463	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I've been a member for a little over two months. I know that sometimes we differ and we often argue very important things, such as understanding what democracy is. or the shape of our country. However, I ask the High House that we agree that at least where we are able to save people's lives, we should replace the dispute with cooperation. According to the report of the National Road Safety Council, around 1,000 people die each year in Poland. more people than the EU average. That means two or three unnecessary deaths a day. Imagine that there is a war where two or three soldiers, Polish soldiers, die every day. We would not be satisfied with dry numbers then, but from morning to evening they discussed what to do to end this war. If we had maintained the EU level of security since the beginning of this decade, we would have saved a town the size of the Silesian Serpents, Ostrzeszów or New Tomyśl. Each of these deaths should be our remorse. Anyone could be prevented. Every life saved should be our cause for pride. Each death can be prevented by taking decisive action in advance. So let's stop sitting with our hands on it and look at more statistics, which show little, which lack diagnosis and proposals for solutions. Preventing road accidents is not black magic. We do not need to waste time and reinvent solutions, because many of them have been prepared and implemented in other countries. Therefore, let us look at the solutions used in Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, where the least casualties are killed in Europe on the roads. These countries have not only invested in infrastructure for many decades, but, above all, have changed their awareness of how the driver drives the vehicle in a responsible way and how the pedestrian has a sense of safety. We can also reach for a closer example, Jaworzna, in which a dozen people were killed a year, and today a fatal accident happens occasionally, sometimes after a multimonth break. Let us change the rules so that the most vulnerable road users are better protected. Let's raise the amount of seats that haven't changed in 20 years. Today they're ridiculously low for deciding about life and death. Let us invest in road infrastructure, but not only in highways and highways, but also in reconstruction of pavements or walkways according to good standards. Let us support the development of sustainable transport, making Poles and Poles willing to choose a safer, cheaper and greener mode of transport instead of a car. A few years ago, Norway announced that no child under the age of 10 had been killed on the roads during a year. In Poland, about 40 children of this age die each year. It's up to us to change that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u464	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u465	Mrs. Marshal! 75 years ago Auschwitz-Birkenau was liberated, a German Nazi extermination camp, a death camp. The camp in Auschwitz was not the only death camp built by the Nazi Third Reich in the territory of conquered and occupied Poland, but was the largest death factory in human history. In Auschwitz more than a million lives were killed by industrial mechanics. 150,000 were deported to Auschwitz. Poles. Half of them died. 15 thousand were also killed in Auschwitz. Russian prisoners. They died in Auschwitz Czechs, Belarusians, French, Slovenians, Ukrainians, Latvians, Dutch and even Chinese. There were even 2,000 prisoners among them. Germans. The Roma were sentenced to death, and 20,000 of them were killed. However, the absolute majority of the victims were Jews. About 1 million Jews were killed in Auschwitz, including 400,000 Jews. Hungarian Jews: women, children, old people and young people died. The absolute horror of the Holocaust lies not only in the massacre of this crime. All Jews, regardless of who they were and what they believed, what they did, what they came from, were sentenced to destruction by Hitler and German Nazis. 75 years have passed since the liberation of Auschwitz. It's not an indifferent date. Witnesses are leaving. The memory runs out, and the story begins. For us who live, for us whose fate allowed us to be born later, it is our duty to convey the whole truth about this tragedy. We owe it to millions of people killed. 15 years ago, the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum established the International Center for Education about Auschwitz and the Holocaust, about this camp. The centre was founded on the initiative of the Museum in Auschwitz-Birkenau and supported by the International Auschwitz Council, which was then led by a former prisoner of Władysław Bartoszewski's camp. Let me quote the founders' words: "Soon our burden will be taken over by historians, scientists, educators. To them we address and ask: 'Remember the victims of Auschwitz and the Holocaust. Strengthen understanding of mechanisms of hatred and contempt, prevent them by developing dialogue and cooperation'. We, politicians, have a special responsibility to ensure that historical facts are not interpreted with particular political interests in mind. Forgetting and denying will not help us to build lasting agreement and peace. The most lasting foundation for reconciliation between nations is humility towards historical truth. Tragic history cannot be changed, so let it be a warning to the world.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u466	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 January 1920 Germany in Paris ratified the Treaty of Versailles of June 1919. This fact restored Poland's land seized as a result of partitions. January 29 - Czersk, January 31 - Chojnice, February 2nd - Brusy will celebrate the 100th anniversary of returning to the mother. It's a big holiday for the village of Chojnicki County. In the winter of 1920 after 148 years since the first cut and incarnation of the lands of today's Chojnice district to the Kingdom of Prussia Poles, inhabitants of Czerska, Brus and Chojnice could enjoy the view of Polish soldiers in blue uniforms. It was General Józef Haller's soldiers from the Pomeranian Front who entered the Pomeranian cities, marching from Torun, Bydgoszcz and Grudziądz towards Gdansk. In the district of Chojnicki, the takeover of power, the areas granted to Poland, was bloodless. The Germans were withdrawing their troops and administration to the west. Poles enthusiastically welcomed the Polish army, which brought to the next villages the dream freedom and return to the Republic, so long awaited and so bloody occupied in subsequent insurgent breaks. The towns and towns were decorated with white and red flags, garlands and welcome gates. It was a great joy. The inhabitants of Pomeranian cities were eager to build a new Polish administration, they were very active in associations, paramilitary organizations and political parties. 150 years of Prussian captivity ended and Poles could build their small homelands within local governments. Today, 100 years after the return of Chojnice, Brus and Czerska, the residents of Chojnice County will be very happy to celebrate this beautiful anniversary. From this place I pay tribute to the fathers of Polish independence, who fought for pomeranian lands within the borders of the Second Republic: Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, thousands of Polish soldiers and insurgents, activists of independent organizations, Chojnicki Philomats. As a resident of the Pomeranian land, I thank you all. I would like to thank all those nameless priests, teachers, Polish families who cared that Polish faith, culture, tradition and speech should not be lost for years in captivity. I pay tribute to the first local authorities who built the Polish administration in the Chojnice district. As a former self-government officer, now a Member of the Sejm of the Brightest Republic, I thank them with my heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u468	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few minutes ago, we voted on the amendment of the law on government departments and commemorative laws. It is a mysterious law that in its records, changes brings content completely changing a certain reality. What is the reality of the matter? So far, funds for the activities of the Polish people around the world have been located in the Senate. It's been said for a long time that because the Senate isn't government, it's not government side, so that money should be taken. That's what they say. These are rumours you didn't want to believe. Because it is worth knowing the facts, yesterday during the meeting of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, the question addressed to Deputy Minister Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. The problem was whether the funds from the Senate would be transferred. The Minister replied to the whole committee that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had not prepared such a project and did not know anything about it. Today, half an hour ago, we voted on a change in the fact that the tasks of Polish society will be carried out by the Senate, but they will also be the responsibility of the Prime Minister and will also be carried out by NGOs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister Dworczyk said there would be more money, so we shouldn't worry. We are not worried about the fact that the money for Polonia will be increased, but we are concerned about the fact that the situation was orderly and finally NGOs, those from all over the world, did not wait until May or June, because last year they received money very efficiently, but at the moment we do not know how it will be, because only on the 30th day of the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance will the issue of money placement be considered. I am only acting to tell the whole world that there are mysterious things going on that even the committee called to take care of Polish affairs knows nothing and was not informed yesterday. Then didn't the Minister really know? Is it possible for such changes to be made without the knowledge of ministers, or did the Minister miss the truth? This thing should be explained. In my opinion, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u470	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u471	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Podkarpacki Cooperative Bank based in Sanoku was the second about the size of the cooperative bank in the country with 88 thousand. individual accounts and 8 000. companies that were his clients until recently. Everything changed on 17 January 2020 when the Bank Guarantee Fund announced forced restructuring. As a result of the operation carried out by BFG, some deposits of local government units and large companies were lost. The cost scale for the municipalities and districts of Podkarpacie is huge, as some institutions had several million zlotys there, which in relation to the size of their funds and liabilities is a large amount. The accounts at the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank based in Sanoku had 34 local governments, including many small municipalities, for which the losses are the most severe. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The actions introduced by the BFG on 17 January hit many stakeholders, destroying years of work, functioning in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, thereby undermining trust in cooperative banking and Polish capital. The equity fund, bonds and 43% were depreciated the resources of local government units and institutions such as, for example, The Podkarpackie Football Union and many others. All of this took place at the expense of 34 municipalities and local governments, companies and institutions, and people from not very wealthy Podkarpacie. For many local governments 43% The measures taken as a result of the compulsory restructuring of PBS are the money necessary for the payment of basic benefits such as 500+ or the normal functioning of schools. Therefore, on behalf of local governments and institutions of a social nature, I ask for reimbursement of the financial resources and for a detailed analysis of the appropriateness of the BFG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u472	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 years ago, in January 2018, the formation of the fifth type of Armed Forces began on Świętokrzyski soil - 10. The Holy Cross Territorial Defence Brigade. Since the beginning of the uprising, the brigade has been guided by the proud traditions of the Home Army. Her patron was Major Eugeniusz Gedymin Kaszyński nickname Nurt. The Foreign Mission Preparation Centre in Kielce was chosen for its temporary location. In cooperation with the non-military links of the State's defence system, WOTs shall carry out tasks aimed at: carrying out defence activities in cooperation with the operational forces and supporting elements of the extra-military regime, carrying out independent unconventional, anti-version and anti-defensive activities, participating in evacuation of civilians, implementing crisis management, combating natural disasters and their consequences, protection of property, search and rescue operations, contributing to securing the adoption and development of allied strengthening forces in the requested areas, shaping in society the attitudes and values of patriotic and civil society. The interest in serving her country in the brigade translates into the number of her soldiers, and these arrive every day. At the moment, the brigade has more than 1,000. soldiers. It has been commanded by Colonel Grzegorz Motak since September 2019. He gained experience as a soldier not only in the country, but also outside the borders of the country, among others. Kosovo, Afghanistan, the USA, Hungary and Slovakia. As a commander, he puts first and foremost very well-trained soldiers, while remembering the traditions of the sanctimonious land. The 10th Brigade is an entity in which the service of the country can be reconciled with the performance of existing professional and family responsibilities. The formation allows the most optimal combination of civil activities with military services. This is possible thanks to the fact that training takes place mainly on days off from work. An additional advantage of territorial military service is the promotion of individual predispositions, talents and interests of volunteers. For this purpose, there are organized officer courses of Agricola and sub-office courses of the Probe, as well as rescue courses of the battlefield. On 14 December 2019 an oath of recruits from 10 took place in Włoszczów. The Świętokrzyskie Territorial Defence Brigade, which was a special distinction for both soldiers and residents of the Italian district. This land owes its freedom, among others. Patron of the brigade Major. Eugeniusz Gedymin Kaszyński's nickname Nurt. It was here years ago that Chotowa residents obtained his help and support. He saved hundreds of lives. Witnesses of these events live to this day and share with their families in commemorative celebrations. The Tradition of the National Army here is alive and extremely close to students of the primary school of her name in Oleszno or primary schools. Major. Henryk Dobrzański, Hubala, in Dobomierz, or in schools. Partisans of Włoszczowska Land in Włoszczów. The territorial defense forces are unique in character. I work with their representatives every day and I see that they have in their ranks the best of the best. What you do in the words, always ready, always close, deserves the utmost recognition. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u474	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u475	Statement on the 157th anniversary of the January Uprising. On 22 January we celebrated the 157th anniversary of the outbreak of the January Uprising, which is considered the biggest Polish independence break. The January Uprising began with the Manifesto of the Interim National Government. It has consumed tens of thousands of victims and has greatly influenced the independence efforts of the next generations. Over one and a half years of armed action, more than 1 000 have taken place. smaller or larger conflicts, and in total, at least 150 thousand were involved in the fights. Insurgents. The manifesto includes the creation of the Polish state and the granting of equal rights to all citizens. A call was also made for the pluralization of peasants. The Manifesto called on all residents of the pre-departmental Republic to fight against the Russian Empire. The uprising covered the territory of the Kingdom of Poland, Lithuania, Belarus and parts of Ukraine. The fight was characterised by the advantage of perfectly armed Russian forces. The resistance faced by the Russians allowed the uprising to last for up to 1.5 years, until the end of the summer of 1864. According to many historians, the initiative of the Uprising awakened in Poles belonging to the nation, shaped patriotic attitudes among the next generations and contributed to the fact that Poland regained independence in 1918. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We must remember the heroes of that break, because they maintained their national identity and sustained their resistance to the killers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u476	Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. I declare that in the vote No 4 on the Law on the System of General Courts despite the vote against the system did not notice my vote. I have a film documenting this fact.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-23-sejm-04-2.u477	This concludes the 4th session of the Polish Parliament. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The 5th meeting of the Sejm convened on 12 and 13 February 2020 and the 6th meeting of the Sejm convened on 14 February 2020 were served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 40]]
