ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u1	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal application for a quorum. Yesterday we asked the marshal to take care of what is most important, precisely in fear that parliamentarians would not be able to work remotely on this bill. The system has been tested since this morning and many Members are now pointing out that they are logged out of it. That is why I would like to hear from your marshal how your marshal is able to determine whether the deliberations are lawful, i.e. whether there are enough Members involved or whether we are able at any stage to confirm that there are more than half of us. That's once. And the other thing. If your marshal wanted to show you that any of the parliamentarians can work right now. Yesterday we submitted a lot of comments to the IT system, including. talking about the fact that there are problems with sharing the Sejm's transmission, e.g. notes that the simultaneous logging in of the voting system results in the end of the transmission of the session, i.e. that the Member is de facto without information. At the moment, Members are signaling that the signal they have is delayed, so what is happening in the Parliament hall is delayed. Therefore, I would very much ask for a quorum to be established and, if so, for appropriate printouts to be legally possible to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u2	Thank you, sir. You have preceded this formal proposal by what I must do, of course, i.e. the statement of quorum. In a moment, we will have this vote - everyone who is, also remotely. I'll speak the formula in a moment, and we'll see how many Members are attending today's session of the Sejm. On the other hand, I would also like to remind you, Mr President, and I would like to address all of you, what I said yesterday at the Senior Convention. You know that the Sejm meeting was scheduled for Friday. Thursday was meant for a whole day of rehearsals. You knew that. Unfortunately, Thursday was completely removed because yesterday we sat in the plenary room until late last night, and these trials could not be carried out. Besides, from what I hear and see, Members, at least some, make public their login. Like who? I don't know for what purpose - whether it's so that other people can connect right now and block the servers. I do not know what the reason is, but I would ask and appeal to all of you - I am not speaking by name here - for responsibility, because we are looking at very important laws today. We're about to find a quorum. I ask all of you - including those who are in other rooms, but also those who are outside the plenary room - to be able to find a quorum. If there's any trouble, there'll be a technical break. You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Those who are present in the courtroom have cards and they vote cards. Those of you who are in the other rooms, possibly outside the plenary room, will vote on the iPads. Each of you has received a code that is a code to log in to the voting system. You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course, Mr President, this will take a little longer, because the transmission from the sitting room reaches Members who are outside the room, also with a slight delay. I'm taking all this into account, which is why we're gonna do it. It's slower, we'll wait. At the moment, I am asking all your Members here, in other rooms and outside the Parliament building to prepare for the vote. Let me remind you that you need to press the code you received. This is your personal voting code. I'm gonna wait a minute and we're gonna vote in a minute to settle the quorum. Your Marshal, the formal motion has yet to be filed. At this time, while we're preparing, there's another formal conclusion. Catherine Kotala of the Left, right? And Grzegorz Braun was still - a formal conclusion. He's not here at all. Mr Grzegorz Braun has withdrawn. He didn't back out, that's impossible. He's in another room. We received this communication from the room where Mr Braun is. Your marshal, your name's wrong. Kotula. Catherine Kotula. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, I am so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary club of the Left formally requests an extension of the Sejm's sitting on Saturday and Sunday. Yesterday we were all bidding on the fact that we were ready to work. We know that some work is still underway on the government's legislative amendments. Set is a lot, Poles can no longer wait for good solutions. So we propose to stay on Saturday and Sunday and to proceed over all urgently needed laws so that Poles can receive real help. Thank you very much. We'll stay, of course, if we have to. Let's work faster, not slower.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u4	Thank you. Only, Madam, this is not a formal proposal, it is so formulated, but I understand your intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u5	Mrs. Member! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much ask you to discipline Members such as Mr Nitras at this particular time of session, who, when our Member makes a formal request, interrupts and shouts. I'm addressing you with an appeal. If this goes on, let's cut it off. Mr. Nitras was interrupting yesterday and interrupting today, and shouting at a formal motion. That's rude. I appeal to the opposition, all of us: why are you fighting? For people, this is a sitting. Don't do it, because today we're here to make a bill. Shame and shame. [[Applause]] But Christopher...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u6	Thank you, sir. The conclusion is... Ladies and gentlemen, I was paying attention yesterday. I haven't seen it, but I understand you have. Please, sir, if this is the case, I will apply the rules of procedure, including exclusion from the meeting. Please - if you can't sit in this room because you're upset about something, you can go to another room so that you don't have a problem looking at the other Members and listening to them directly. However, I ask you to discipline yourself. [[Applause]] But I didn't say a word. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all Members are ready to vote. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're obsessed. Let me remind you that you can press whatever button you want: red, green or yellow. The point is to see how many Members are voting at the moment. We'll proceed with the vote. Please press the buttons. Whatever, Mr. President, I said just a moment ago. Because you know, sir, I said three: red, green, yellow. We're adjourned. In a few seconds, the results of the vote will be published, how many Members are attending the session of the Sejm at the moment. 402 Members are taking part in the deliberations. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of items 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda: Please take the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We found ourselves under unusual circumstances today. Under the circumstances, when the whole world is fighting against the pandemic of Coronavirus. How unusual are the circumstances, these days and these weeks, let the comments of some EU leaders, e.g. Prime Minister of Italy, who says this is the hardest time since World War II. That's what Chancellor Merkel says. We Poles experienced the nightmare of World War II and later in communism we also experienced many sufferings, so we do not do such comparisons, but certainly what has happened now, what is happening before our eyes, is the biggest challenge of recent decades. The data that comes to us from individual countries, institutes, credit rating agencies and which point to economic prospects are alarming. In the United States, data have just been provided on the number of people who have applied for unemployment benefits. These are the largest numbers in history. They've never been this big, even during a great depression, in a week's shot, they've never been this big in the last 50 years, when the record unemployment benefits cover about 800,000. persons. Today it's over 3,300,000. people in the United States. This data shook the world and made everyone aware of how difficult the global economy is today, how dramatically everyone in the world has to unite today to fight the koravirus, but also not to make a false choice, whether we are fighting for public health or fighting, a little darwinistically, for the economy, because such voices have also been heard. We think it's a wrong choice. We believe that the spread of Coronavirus must be slowed down as much as possible, but at the same time we are aware that this is happening with great damage to the economy, that it is happening in a way that destroys the European economy, the Polish economy. The data coming from Western Europe shows that our actions are right, often ahead of us. For this reason, we have no particular satisfaction; we are merely convinced that we must act quickly today. A bit like finding some very dangerous disease - one day's corpse is a huge difference. Friday or Saturday - it could be a huge difference. Therefore, today I ask the High House to accept in agreement this package that we have prepared. Our crisis shield is a good instrument for this stage of development of Coronavirus and the fight against the virus in the economy. We need to act quickly, we need to act as quickly as possible. We want to make these instruments work for days. I appeal to entrepreneurs because it is in your companies that decisions about the future are already made on a daily basis. The anti-crisis shield is supposed to protect jobs on the one hand and protect them from bankruptcy on the other. Yeah, we heard. In Western Europe, mechanisms of not only a recession but also a depressive nature have been launched. This has already been confirmed by many institutes, many economic research and economic data confirm this. Today I read information about the likely drop in economic growth by around 10% in Germany. You don't have to be an economist to realize what this could mean for the European economy, for the Polish economy. Forecasts for Italy: minus 7% these are normal forecasts today, and this is also our very important trading partner. Today all supply chains, production chains have been ripped apart. This crisis is different, different from everyone else (the Bell) that was before, also from the one that happened even so long ago, in 1929. We are dealing with unprecedented phenomena. The decline in stock exchanges exceeds 30% and is comparable to the declines only from the major crises of the last 150 years. We've got to move fast. The declines in raw materials markets, the decline in various asset markets show that today we must unite in the fight against the economic consequences that are already taking place in the economy. This crisis certainly hits demand, supply, consumption, investment differently. Joseph Stiglitz, one of the most widely commented economists in the world, one of the most famous. All previous crises were characterised by a lack of demand. This crisis is different. At the same time, we need to work on mechanisms to stabilise supply chains, production chains, supply mechanisms, because they have also been disrupted. This is why the government of the Republic of Poland works as quickly as possible. 14 days after the first case of a person with Coronavirus, we presented the first findings of an anti-crisis shield. I don't know, maybe someone in the world was a little faster, but it's definitely one of the quickest answers to what's going on around us. We have to react decisively, and we react decisively, just like today, a few days after presenting the characteristics of our anti-crisis shield. This is confirmed by the world's most famous economists and research institutes, economic institutes. We're operating on the supply side, on the demand side. We are trying at all costs to prevent the bankruptcy of companies and the dismissal of employees. This is a sine qua non condition to stop the spiral, which will then attract consumption and investment, which can cause tremor in various parts of the economy - in the fiscal, financial, monetary area, in the real economy. Today, as never before, we need cooperation - policy mix cooperation, mix of policies, best economic policies: monetary, fiscal, regulatory policy, for the real economy. Today, an anti-crisis shield offers such a mixture, it is such a mixture. As we see in several countries, our friends, our partners from western Europe, also have an economical, health pandemonium. We do not want to bring this to Poland. We defend ourselves against this and so far with humility, but we are also pleased to say that we are doing everything we can to slow this growth curve down. Many analyses show that this curve is different. This is a glimmer of hope. It's not a victory yet, it doesn't mean victory yet, but it is, yes, a light in the tunnel. This slowing down will make our health care better able to provide medical services, better care for sick people, so that there are no terrible situations, such as situations we see in Spain and Italy, for segregation. We want to avoid this at all costs, first of all we want to make time with single-name hospitals, with new places in different hospitals, with new quarantine facilities. I would like to thank my fellow countrymen on this occasion, and I strongly urge everyone to stick to the rules, quarantine rigours and rigors of distanceing themselves from each other so that they respect sanitary and hygienic rules. They, according to epidemiologists, are critically important in order, in such, let's call it contractualally, a new normality to return to a more professional life, to international trade. I'm sure everyone's watching different trends. Today, trends in markets, financial markets, markets giving value to raw materials, assets of all kinds have collapsed. All these trends have collapsed, but our response at this stage is the most appropriate one of those that anyone else has ever invented. Our response, our crisis shield, is about 10%. GDP - 10% GDP consisting of different instruments. First and foremost, prevention of redundancies. Dear employers and entrepreneurs, these measures we have offered... What's the amount? ...that's enough to provide 40%. salaries for all companies: micro, small, medium and largest, which will commit themselves to storing, to retaining, to parking, to reorganising their work in such a way as to keep as many jobs as possible. This is absolutely necessary, because I believe in an economic reflection in the shape of the letter V, as the macroeconomicists say. Worst case scenario, U-shaped, but with a short recession period, a short slowing period, which means it's good to keep all the attributes, all the microeconomic parameters of your companies' operation as wide as possible. That's why we're making it possible to reconnect these messed-up economic links. After all, the economy is also about trust and links between companies, consumers, citizens and companies, companies both, B2B, B2C, C2G, etc., all of these letters can be mixed together. Professionals know very well that these links require at least storage of production capacity and employment in individual companies, in particular sectors for some time. For people particularly affected we have in our crisis shield a solution especially adapted to this: full exemption from the ZUS. We have benefits for all people... Who? ...who had previously been on contracts-orders, civil law contracts and lost those orders. For all employees, also companies up to nine people, i.e. those most affected by the coronavirus, is the exemption from the ZUS, there is also an additional financial injection for all these companies, described in very detail in the first and second pillar. For people who are on the parking lot - not only a 40% surcharge up to remuneration, 40% average salary in the national economy, but also exemption from the Social Security Office. These are tens of billions of zlotys. We are ready for this, but we must also say with all our power where we would be, dear fellow countrymen, if not for the repair of public finances, if not for the tens of billions of zlotys, 70 This is the money we've put into social policy. This social policy is a very important shock absorber today. The whole 500+, also for the first child, we hold. It is a social buffer for families, for those families particularly affected by the coronavirus, affected by special conditions in the economic field. Of course, we also maintain a pension+, also an expedition, also a reduction to zero in the PIT tax for young people, so as to go through these difficult months in solidarity, together. That's what we're holding up. We're prepared at this stage. also because we have led the Polish economy to a state in which it had not previously been, to one of the lowest levels of public debt. We are not relying on credit expansion, our economic boom was not based on credit expansion. Public finances are healed and unemployment was not only at the lowest level in the history of the Third Republic, but also at one of the lowest in the European Union. Why am I bringing this up? This is unfortunately a closed chapter by Coronavirus, but it gives us the strength, budgetary power, monetary power to respond properly to those struggles that are ahead of us, for this very difficult period that is ahead of the world economy and for the European economy dramatically difficult. Poland is in a better position, but we approach the challenges with great humility. I am aware that this requires subtle, intricate links between monetary policy in its various views, not only interest rates, not only different types of LTROs, and synchronised with the market as they are carried out, but also, in line with the recommendations that are now, on days, formulated by the best research institutes, the launch of fiscal policy. And that's why we proposed a budget without a deficit last autumn. But the deficit here is no holy grail. The Poles are the most important to us. And we will use budget money to the extent necessary, but at the same time to the extent that it will give us and the external markets with which we are in constant, daily dialogue, confidence in the stability of our monetary policy, fiscal policy and regulatory policy. This is why we propose regulations with regard to capital requirements in such a way and not in any other way. Therefore, in this way and not otherwise, the independent central bank acted on the reserve ratio, i.e. the reverse of the multiplier of money creation. These are the actions most needed for this period. But today I am well aware that it is every hour that decisions are made on the boards of companies, the larger ones, the owners of smaller companies, regarding business reorganisation, the dismissal of employees or the sale of part of the assets. And I wanted to call for cooperation, because I am convinced that within a few months we will be, the whole of Europe, in a better condition with regard to Coronavirus, and then those who will have the best-matched organisational structures, business structures, production structures and services to the economy that will be reborn will win. After these great declines in the United States, in the European Union, the western part of the European Union will start trade back. Today entrepreneurs know that he is frozen, to say the least, but the trade will be reborn. And that's why it's so important to be ready to jump into this place. And awareness is growing in the European Union. Yesterday, a week ago, two weeks ago, I talk to the leaders of the European Union every day. It is growing awareness that the European Union must actively participate in the global reconstruction of production structures and production links throughout the world. And we, Poland, must be prepared for this. We must be prepared not only in areas where we are particularly affected today - the sold-out pharmaceutical sector, the lack of many equipment - it will be played throughout Europe and Poland will certainly be in the avant-garde industries which will recreate their production capacity, their capacity. But we are also discussing together in the European Union, in a joint and several way, to find answers to these difficult challenges. Unfortunately, today, the European Union has not given any euro cents to the fight against the coronavirus. You can see that in times like these, times very difficult, the most important are countries, national states. Poles appreciate it, all citizens of the European Union appreciate it. The funds weren't used. Well, unfortunately, the European Union's reactions are, maybe I'll say, they are what they are, everyone can observe them, because it's not new money... But don't lie to me. ...the members of the European Commission have also spoken. So it's beyond any doubt. It's not right for the Prime Minister to lie. However, I believe that in a way that is late, after proper stimulation... She was also yesterday, the Prime Minister of Spain and the Prime Minister of Italy, the Prime Minister of the Visegrad Group, along with me, and several other countries, spoke of this very strongly, raising that if the European Union is to maintain the trust of citizens, it must respond adequately. A two-billion-dollar package, which is about ten percent, two trillion dollars in the United States. What is the response of the European Union as a whole? We'll wait. I hope it will be. For now, the answer is on the side of the national states. It is important for everyone to know this, and it is also worth everyone to realise that the fight against these adversities, both from the supply, demand and fiscal side, is done through the budgets of individual Member States. And so do we. In addition to the protective measures on the labour market, which I have mentioned, in addition to the many actions that are in our so-called. The second pillar, where we mobilise guarantee money and direct money - and this is also real money, tens of billion PLN, at least 70 billion PLN for maintaining liquidity in companies, on non-refundable loans, on reverse loans, on operating leases, on loans, on liquidity, on current loans, current loans, on current account, but also on direct payments so that entrepreneurs from industries such as tourism, catering, transport, logistics, trade - big, very important industry - do not remain alone and they will not remain alone... As part of the crisis shield, we propose a range of solutions that are also tailored to individual industries. Thank you for all your reflections for the opportunity to improve this package at the stage at which it was approved today. That's not the last word, bah, I'm sure that's the first answer we have. We will adapt to the needs of the market, we will observe. Every day we meet in the economic forum, in the main actors of the economic scene. I'm dating, I'm talking. I meet - these words now take on a slightly different dimension. I meet on TV at video conferences with entrepreneurs, heads of business unions and employers, representatives of trade unions, representatives of many industries. I want to assure all of you and all of your countrymen that we will not leave you alone. The Polish state goes with this narrow ridge, where on one side we have unemployment, bankruptcy of companies - and we want to prevent them, using the strongest fiscal and monetary mechanisms available - but on the other side we have credibility of our instruments towards the outside world. Yesterday I heard a wish concert sitting here. Ladies and gentlemen, dear representatives of the opposition, you know that I am open to dialogue. In the last few weeks, I have personally met with you repeatedly, several times in direct format, and additionally several times in the format of the National Security Council convened by your President. You know perfectly well that we can listen, use certain ideas that are good, but at the same time realize that today credibility in markets, in global markets, in financial markets, determines the ability to carry out any economic activity. There are countries that have already gone bankrupt, whose debt has not been redeemed. They're highly indebted to you. Our growth was sustainable, public debt fell to GDP, private debt and corporate debt was lower than average. Therefore, we have some buffers to run and we run them. Similarly, the third and fifth pillars. These are very important pillars in our anti-crisis shield, which aim to restart the economy and investment, immediately as confidence is restored in the basic, elementary layer - that is, I hope in a few weeks that soon. First you have to suffocate, take control of the corrhoid. It worked in China, but not only in China. China is not a democratic state. It worked in Korea, it did it in Japan, it did it in Taiwan. Our mechanisms... These countries also have a different political culture, a different culture of social relations, but we want to exploit and exploit those experiences. This is our way of fighting this global pandemic, which is the first such health challenge for the world - despite of course the war - since 1918, since Spanish flu. COVID-19 is a major health crisis that has already turned into a deep economic crisis in many countries around the world. We're not a lonely island, we're dependent on the rest of the world. We have a very open economy. Our exports are, over and over again, 900 billion PLN, imports - 900 billion PLN. This is in relation to our GDP - over 3/4, 4/5. It's a huge part of our GDP. Today, when these industries become, when Volkswagen, Opel, Fiat, Mercedes, BMW stop production, Polish parts suppliers also stop production. We at that time, for these few weeks, maybe for a month, two, three - hopefully no longer, and believe that no longer, as I look at signals coming from different parts of the world - we have prepared the most appropriate economic solution and this is our crisis shield. Let's accept her as soon as possible. Today, too, citizens want us to ensure peace and certainty about their savings. Hence the pillar of ensuring this security, which is provided by KNF, Ministry of Finance and above all also by the National Bank of Poland. We do not give to the banking sector in terms of grants or gold. I emphasize that because there's been a lot of fake news. I understand the political struggle, but today, telling the truth is more important, because one fake news can cause very serious damage to the entire economy. So I call on you to act together, to act together. This is a big deal. We believe that at this stage our answer is the most appropriate. In a week or two, we can convene the Sejm meetings - thank you very much, Your Marshal, for preparing a special procedure - in a safe way, with the distance we are keeping to each other here today according to the epidemiologists' recommendations, and we are sitting almost constantly on the next elements of the shield. She is not a closed set of instruments, but her implementation counts in hours as soon as possible. It is important to do this almost immediately, because every day of delay means tens of thousands of unemployed. We have proposed solutions to counter this, and I am convinced that these are the best possible solutions, tailored to our capabilities, our budgetary and fiscal situation in Poland. Therefore, I ask the High House, bearing in mind the seriousness of the situation in which we are in order not to fight barren disputes, not to create an impression among the compatriots that you can start a concert of wishes that any 10, 50 billion PLN can put anybody on the table. Please enter into a dialogue with us, a dialogue in which we will show you, if someone does not have access, because actually all fiscal and monetary data are available, you can count them and you can see everything. But I can be at such meetings every day, talking, explaining this, getting into a very deep dialogue, because he is needed today as never before, so that in a few weeks this little green light from behind these fogs that are ahead of us, because we see that the difficult weeks are coming, it is getting bigger and bigger and so that we may be able to not dry our feet, because no country will pass through this pandemic of coritos, but the least hit in comparison with other countries of the European Union, through this crisis to go and be reborn as soon as possible. Therefore, please, please, High House, let us vote quickly, let us vote on this high-ranking issue in the situation in which we are in, because the future of the Polish economy and the future of Poles depend on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, and provide a justification for the draft laws contained in prints 299, 299-A and 302. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As the Prime Minister said, I am pleased to present to you a law on the prevention of the spread of the COVID-19 virus, and, as the Prime Minister said, all ministers in our government worked on this law. We consulted with workers and employers, talked with many representatives of many industries every day. We are well aware of the situation of the Polish economy today. I am convinced, like the Prime Minister, that for a generation like mine, a generation raised in free Poland a pandemic and its social consequences will be a generational experience. For some of your fellow Members, this experience was certainly the solidarity, martial law and the building of free Poland at the beginning of the 1990s. For us certainly those events that are today, and their consequences will be such an experience. I hope that we will pass the test of this experience in the same way as the elderly Members did. Our bill is not just about the economy. This is about the state of our entire social life, because social and economic costs will be borne and we will all be borne. Let me at least note that the greatest cost will probably be borne by the generation of those who do not yet have a stable professional and material situation, today's 20-, 30-, or maybe 40-year-olds. The solutions we are proposing have tried to cover all employees and employers, but of course the laws themselves are not enough. We will be again, like 40 years ago, trying to build solidarity. We will need this solidarity very much, the solidarity of the younger with the older, the solidarity between the employer and the worker, the solidarity between the representatives of the administration and all the citizens. In terms of health, solidarity is expressed today by the distance, but this distance paralyzes our economy. That is why we have prepared solutions to ensure that, during this difficult period, we will carry out both workers and employers as far as possible, as possible, with a dry foot. As the Prime Minister has already mentioned, we are creating a flexible framework to provide this assistance. Today we provide instruments that are adequate to the situation in which we are in. But in this law we are already creating instruments that will make it possible, if the situation requires it, if this situation extends, that we will be able to react flexibly. Therefore, one of the elements introduced in the proposed Act is the creation of the COVID-19 Fund. This is a new fund to be held by the President of the Council of Ministers. The funds of this fund can be distributed to other funds, to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, the Labour Fund, where they will be needed at the moment, because there will be no shortage of funding for all those who today meet the criteria for this assistance to be covered. The solutions that we are introducing first are those for today's extended quarantine period, which concerns schools and children subject to school obligations, aimed at extending the period for which parental care is granted to children who are not allowed to go to school today. We also extend these rights to those who are insured in the agricultural social security system. They will now be able to benefit from such benefits. We also change the scope of this assistance for parents of disabled children. The parents of those children who are in nursing homes will be able to benefit from benefits - having children up to the age of 25. We are introducing job protection solutions, as the Prime Minister said. Here we offer a wide range of facilities. For companies, both small and larger, we are abolishing the de minimis aid regime, public aid, known from pre-viral times, and therefore we have no limit on public aid in this respect. We offer two types of solutions. The company, which is today at a stop, i.e. those which cannot provide any services, lost customers, lost its orders - it can then report to the parking situation. Within this stop, it may reduce the working time of all workers to half-time, the catch which, however, cannot be lower than the minimum wage. Of this salary the employer will pay only half, the cost of the second part together with social and health contributions will be borne by the Social Insurance Institution. So if we are talking about costs, then for one employee whose salary is PLN 2600, PLN 1300, this will be the amount which will be borne by the guaranteed benefit fund. If the company is slowing down, but can provide services, it can continue, although to a reduced extent, its production activity, then the trader can reduce the working time of its employees by 20% to 0.8 jobs. And then the guaranteed benefit fund will also cover half of the salary, up to the average salary, i.e. about 5 thousand. zł. Half of this part will be covered by the guarantee fund - and here again with social and health contributions. The second part will be covered by the employer. This is very concrete and very strong support, which in the case of parking reduces the operating costs, the company's activities by about 80%. These solutions, as I said, are common. They can be used by small companies - up to 10, 20, 30, 50 employees - as well as by all large companies that do not fall within the criterion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Those large companies that benefited from state aid, whether in tax exemptions or direct grants or through special economic zone mechanisms - this aid has not been added up in previous years - today they can benefit from this aid to sustain workers and sustain the state. We make it easier and more flexible to use these instruments, i.e. the trader may jointly benefit from both, and from the other, some of the employees may send to the parking lot and the parts reduce the remuneration, leaving them at work. This is not the only help we offer to such an employer. Such an employer may also benefit from the extension of both social security contributions and all his or her tax obligations. He could have done it so far, but he had to pay a carry-over fee. We're putting up with this fee. At the same time, we simplify very much the model and way of reaching for these facilitations. You will be able to apply for a deferral or a rescue system on a very simple, 1-page form. They will all be available next week and for employees, and for employers. Similarly, the correct tax calculations - this can also be done on the basis of a very simple statement, which will also be available next week. At the same time, we offer micro-enterprises, as the Prime Minister mentioned, the abolition of social security contributions. And here we don't have a criterion. Companies employing between one and nine employees will be able to benefit from the exemption from social security contributions if their turnover has decreased by around 50%. in the month preceding that. The owner of such a company, who is very often self-employed, will also not have to pay social security contributions if his income does not exceed three times the average salary, i.e. today it is 15 600 PLN. Revenue... We also abolish social security obligations for those insured in the agricultural social security system for one quarter. At the same time, all companies - although this is, of course, the instrument primarily for the smallest ones, given its scale - are offering loans, which will be held by the Labour Fund, loans of 5 000. zł, which after six months will be able to die. They will also be available on the date of the entry into force of this law. For employers who will benefit from either a parking solution or a reduced labour dimension solution, we also make it more flexible to account for working time. They will be able to use this during the post-stop period, when they return to their full-time work, make more use of the workers, and reduce their rest time for workers. This is - which I would like to emphasise - a solution that we have developed with the social side. The social side, representatives of all trade unions, understanding the seriousness of the situation, agreed to those solutions which they had not agreed to for many years. They understand that this flexibility is a prerequisite for maintaining jobs today. This law also introduces a number of bureaucratic facilitations. These include, for example, the extension of a number of administrative deadlines. We extend the term of validity of disability decisions or incapacity for work, we automatically extend the term of validity of labour medicine studies. If someone ends the period of validity of such studies, they will be automatically extended during the epidemic. We also extend the period of validity of licences for scheduled services. We also give local governments the opportunity to postpone the collection of real estate taxes. Those due in April, May and June will be able to be regulated until the end of September, after the decision of the local authorities. We also have specific sector-specific solutions for the cultural sector in this package. For those who today cannot carry out their activities because of prohibitions and restrictions on movement, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage remains at the disposal of the fund, which the Minister will be able to hold freely to maintain this activity at a time when it cannot normally be conducted. There is also a solution specifically addressed to the tourism industry. This is the industry that was first affected by the spread of the virus. Very many trips, tourist events have been cancelled since March 15th. So we're introducing a solution. As you know, today, when the tourist event we wanted to take advantage of is cancelled by the organizer, we can apply for reimbursement within 14 days from the date of cancellation of the event. We extend this deadline to 180 days - these are solutions that have also been adopted in recent weeks in several Member States - and we give the opportunity to reimburse the costs of this event not only in cash, but also in the form of a voucher for a new, different event. I want to assure you that we are also working on a solution that will provide the tourism industry with special support in the form of a voucher that Poles will be able to use, reaching, instead of returning, for new tourist services. We would like to present it and discuss it with you in the coming weeks. We are also introducing relaxation in the requirements of Public Procurement Law. Many investments, the implementation will not be completed within the contractual deadlines due to the ongoing state of the epidemic. We are therefore abolishing the statutory penalties that are entered as a result of the timely execution of orders or services. We also extend and address labour market related solutions. We have more than 2 million foreigners on the Polish market who are on this labour market and are important tissue of this market. Visas and residence permits, work permits for the duration of the epidemic and 60 days after the outbreak are automatically renewed. This is a very important element that employers have drawn our attention to. At the same time, we introduce solutions addressed to those who rent space in large-area shops, galleries that are closed today, in commercial facilities. We're putting in place a solution that... Under today's law, we know that the state in which we are today relieves tenants of their legal obligations. These duties are the payment of the rent. In addition, we introduce elements that will automatically terminate the contracts signed today and the tenant will sign new contracts after the end of this state. Under these new contracts, we extend the runway and these first months will be covered with a lower rent than before the virus. In this way we offer the chance to survive these industries and those companies that cannot do their business today. As regards the new obligations that were to enter into force this year, we are abolishing them or moving some of them. We are moving the entry into force of the VAT JPK, which was due to enter into force from 1 April, at the end of July. We move the entry into force of the waste database, new administrative obligations for all entrepreneurs. We're moving that deadline to the end of the year. We are also introducing flexible forms of change of financial plans in the necessary institutions that are facing problems with the spread of the virus today. These are institutions such as the Material Reserve Agency or KOWR, which will be able to change their financial plans freely without having to be notified by the Public Finance Commission. Only in this way will we be able to respond actively to the needs of today. In the solutions presented by us there are also special solutions concerning de minimis aid, aid to the well-known majority of companies in Poland. This is loan aid, guaranteed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Until now, this instrument was limited to 60%, i.e. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego guaranteed a loan of up to 60% It's the size of it. We raise this guarantee to 80% and increase the volume the company can use from 200 to 800,000. Euros. Commercial banks are the distributor of these loans. They know this mechanism, which is why next week these loans will be available on the market. These are, we can say, cheap and simple revolving loans that will allow companies to survive this difficult time. In fact, all risks are transferred here to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The trader therefore does not need to provide and meet very high requirements under banking law. All the solutions that we are proposing are also attached... to the pillars mentioned by the Prime Minister, these investment pillars... This pillar concerns the law amending the law on the system of development institutions. Within the framework of the development institution system, we launch two instruments. One of them is: a transport support instrument will be launched at the Industrial Development Agency. Poland is the country that represents the most transport services in Europe. Today, this industry is facing great difficulties because of the fact that the next countries are closed, immobilized. Most of them... We have 278,000. trucks owned by both large companies and a few of them, 25% These companies are micro and small companies. Most of these trucks are leased trucks. Today, the payment of lease payments is a huge challenge for these companies, which is why a special fund of PLN 1700 million will be set up at the Material Reserve Agency, which will finance this fund for 15 months lease payments for companies that are suffering today from Coronavirus. The Act, as amended by the Act on the system of development institutions, also introduces the possibility of creating a new fund. The fund, which will be recapitalised by PLN 7 billion and for which the Polish development fund will be able to participate flexibly, raise capital under conditions other than traditional ones known under banking law, where the risk assessment of the entity will of course be significantly different, will take into account the situation in which the companies are located in connection with the spread of Coronavirus. The solutions we have prepared are very complex. It's a big bill, as you know. You are impatient this week because we have delivered it to you for late discussion. Even though we worked on it continuously for many, many hours in the last 24 hours, we met with you, showing the working versions. We are open because we want this bill to be, as I said, a solidarity project, also a project that will unite us, coalition and opposition, because we do not do this as a political goal, we do this act, we prepare these solutions because they are supposed to be good for Poland. I've never... In all of history We always have such experience in Poland that we are always mobilizing in times of crisis. I hope that from this crisis we will not only be mobilized over divisions, but will also come out strengthened. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I kindly ask you to accept the draft laws submitted by us. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u10	Thank you, Minister. Now I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński to present the justification for the bill contained in prints 301 and 301-A. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u11	Dear Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by thanking you, because we worked together on this project, we worked, we exchanged comments with representatives of all parliamentary clubs, so that I would like to thank Mr Kulesza, President Kosiniak-Kamish, Mr Tyszka, Mr Dark Standerski from the Left, Mr Suski, all the countries who took part in this consultation, and of course Minister Schreiber, who helped us coordinate with Minister Emilewicz. Ladies and gentlemen! The health system requires some adjustments, it requires adjustments which result, firstly, from the fact that we have a completely extraordinary situation, and secondly, because we have a regulation design that forces us to do things, some things do not allow us to do things flexibly. And when it comes to what we recommend to all citizens when we are talking about combating Coronavirus, that is, common sense, sometimes the rules that are in force now do not allow us to apply this common sense without minor changes. First of all, I wanted to sum it up, we're changing 14 laws, laws that regulate virtually every element of the health system. And this is another round of changes after the most urgent ones that have already been introduced under this specialty, which was adopted by the Sejm a few weeks ago. And I would like to say briefly about these changes. First of all, we suspend exams for medical professionals. If someone has passed the written examination and is waiting for this oral examination, then if we are not able to perform it at a certain time, then such a person will have the exam passed, so we will allow them to perform those professions that we are not able to perform the second oral part of the exam. We also limit, suspend reporting obligations to the National Health Fund, those that we can reasonably limit now, because you are eating time, ladies and gentlemen, so that even at the expense of certain things that patients use, such as. information about the nearest free time, just give it up for that time. We'll go back to that, we'll go back to those functions that patients use every day when things get normal. Laws also impose mandatory checks in diagnostic laboratories, blood establishments and other health care institutions. We also suspend these checks at this moment and suspend the functioning of the health investment assessment instrument for those investments that are being carried out in connection with the fight against Coronavirus. We know that almost PLN 100 million from the reserves of the Minister of the Interior went to the voivodships for the necessary purchases. We don't want to block them with formalities. Of course, the assessment of purpose is very important, but now is the time for all such needs to be met as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also introducing a number of new solutions that will allow the health system to function better during the epidemic. First of all, we provide for the possibility of including interns doctors, nurses who come back after 5 years or more of not doing a job, people with a first aid course who can support the work of a medical rescue system. We also anticipate the possibility of involving nurses in blood donation stations. Of course, for all these inclusions we are primarily concerned with patient safety, i.e. there will be some supervision, there will be proper control. It's not like we're making some kind of change, as you say colloquially, into the element, but we're putting it in such a way that we can get the resources we can quickly get, we can benefit from, but without any deterioration in patient care. In addition, we extend the catalogue of entities to which the Minister of Health, on the basis of a specialty, will be able to issue orders. We extend it to local authorities and extend it to the possibility of introducing an epidemic or epidemic threat to the minister's representative who will take over hospital management for that period. This representative shall be appointed by the Minister from among those who must meet the same requirements as those currently in charge of medicinal products. The remuneration of this person is financed by the Minister of Health, and its activities are jointly, jointly and severally liable by the State Treasury, so that the entity or the host body does not have any doubt whether it will later be able to bring its claims for any damage at that time. At the end of this period, after the outbreak has ceased, the person who has so far managed will return. Of course, she still has the right to pay, and no harm will come to anyone here. We also limit the movement of workers between different health care facilities. We limit the movement of workers who may have had contact with the coronavirus. This is extremely important because we know that horizontal infections can pose a very high risk to the health system. These are situations that have occurred in other countries, and these are situations that we need to avoid in Poland, so that the health system will function smoothly all the time and that later, when this situation is normal, we will return to the urgent service of patients, including those who, due to the risk of coronavirus infection, are called back on schedule. In addition, we limit the catalogue of people who are exempt from being assigned to work by the voivode. Here I would like to express my thanks to a group of young doctors who have helped us to prepare a proposal for a self-correction, which is essential to repairing the government's project. This amendment makes it impossible for pregnant women, children under the age of 14 to raise disabled children or children with special educational needs. When it comes to couples who raise older children, only one parent can receive a referral. So we were able to address doubts, concerns that were raised in particular by individuals, couples of doctors raising a child together. Thank you again for your support. We introduce the possibility of on-call services for other health professionals. We are also introducing better mechanisms for the enforcement of obligations, the enforcement of maximum prices for medicines and other medical products. Let me remind you that these are mechanisms, as well as the mechanism for regulating medicinal products issued in pharmacies that we have not yet applied. These are the mechanisms that the previous Specialist introduced. These are the mechanisms that will allow us - thanks to the fact that we monitor all the time warehouse states, that we monitor how many medicines are being spent, if we see a threat to the drug safety of Polish patients - to introduce some limitations that we did not have to introduce at this moment. In addition, we make it easier for pharmacists. In line with the demands of the Polish People's Party, according to what we agreed during our meeting, we introduce the possibility for pharmacists to issue pharmaceutical prescriptions for themselves and their family and to issue pharmaceutical prescriptions even when there is no sudden deterioration of their health, as has been the case so far. This is a postulate that has been putting forward the pharmaceutical environment for many, many years, and now that the role of pharmacies is even greater than usual - I will remind you that during this record week Polish pharmacy visited 21 million patients, i.e. several dozens more than standard - we want the pharmacists to have additional powers and to help their patients even better in this difficult situation. We also simplify the rules for making available and creating strategic reserves for the health minister. This is a mechanism that will certainly allow even better and faster delivery of personal protective equipment to health care institutions. We also simplify the delivery of quarantine and hospitalization decisions and a new institution, which is the introduction of insulation in home conditions. This is about a situation where a patient who, according to the current regulations, should be hospitalized will be able to stay at home. It'll be legal. If there is no need for hospitalization, there is no need for such a patient to stay in a hospital bed, he can recover at home. We are also simplifying documentation and introducing digital tools. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment when we see that the investment, the strategy that we have adopted in the field of health IT: e-recipes, e-releases, preparation for the introduction of e-directions, e-documentations, today is being addressed. I think everyone can see that. Regarding teleports, family doctors of primary healthcare write to us that today for several dozen visits during the day two or three are carried out stationaryly. All others are executed via telephone, via the Internet and there is no need to leave the house and there is no risk of transmission between patients waiting for a visit to the waiting room. We introduce this possibility so that anyone who would like, for example. Because he's quarantined as a doctor or as a nurse, giving such teleporads, he'll be able to do it. We will make available a platform that will allow video consultation, and within this framework we will issue a prescription, release and support to our patients when, because we have been quarantined, we will not be able to provide them with benefits in a normal way. The Ministry of Digitalization introduces a special application that will support us in monitoring quarantined persons. Today, ladies and gentlemen, every day the police visit almost 200,000. people, including those who entered Poland, crossed borders, and those who received decisions from their health inspectors. This is great support from the Polish police. However, where there is no need to involve officers, we should use modern digital tools. Such a tool is this application and this law gives us the opportunity to introduce it as a mandatory tool. Anyone who can have an app like this will have one. We will save time for officers who already show great commitment to supporting the health system in the fight against the coronavirus. I kindly request your support for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm has agreed that it will hear 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the projects under discussion, which we have called an economic shield against the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen! Just like you. The Prime Minister has made us aware - I think perfectly - of the great challenge facing us, not only the health crisis but also the economic crisis. Coronavirus' pandemic changed our lives and changed our society a little bit. It can be said that history is really written in front of our eyes, but when we realize, when we remember, that the generation of our great-grandfathers fought under partitions for free Poland, that the generation of our grandparents fought in a terrible war and had to survive communism, that our fathers fought for free Poland, throwing away the yoke of communism, we can be convinced, and I am convinced, that also from this difficult fight that awaits us, we will come out victorious. Less words, more work. High Izbo! I remember two terrible things from our generation. It was twice the element: the great flood of the century in 1997 and the great storm that passed over Poland in 2017. Of course, there were a number of others, but I would like to say that in such situations the state is necessary, in such situations only the state can help citizens. In such situations, the test is before the rulers. I'm looking at Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. I remember when we fought to keep people safe. I think that we have managed to do this, we have managed to show that the state has a cause and that the state does not disappoint its citizens. You failed. The economic crisis shield is also such an answer, because, yes, we can say today that we made very important decisions quickly, that we limited mass events after 6 days after the first case of Coronavirus in Poland, that we closed schools after 8 days, closed the borders after 11 days, several times faster than all other countries in Europe. We made the decisions, the government made the right decisions and the right ones. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are such people, there are politicians in Europe who have said, presented data that so much must be sick, and so much must die, and so must be. No, this approach is absolutely alien to us. This approach to the government and to the Law and Justice is unacceptable. You have to fight for every human life, and we'll never get off this road. It reminds me of this situation of a story - in such disdainful glances - when his officer approached one of the chiefs during the storm and said that he would win the hill. Well, maybe 10 people will lose their lives, but the job will be done. The chief general looked at him and asked if he wanted to volunteer to be one of those 10. As you may have guessed, he didn't want to. Yeah, the situation that we are dealing with today, this great responsibility of Poles shows that we have a really difficult time, from which we can, as I said, come out victorious. But apart from the fight for health, apart from the fight for the life of Poles, which today is fought in a wonderful way also Polish doctors, all health care, nurses, medical rescuers, this fight for which we have to thank them, we are also facing a great challenge, the great challenge of the economic crisis. The answer to this is the draft laws that we are presenting today to the High House and which we are discussing today in the High Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, you can say, indeed the kind of cancer that runs the economy, and it's the economy of the whole world. Poles today have the right to expect that the government will not remain passive. They have the right to expect that they will not hear such disdainful words from their government, as they have heard the government feed itself, as one communist cameraman said in the 1980s. - that they wouldn't hear that you had to be cautious... Isn't it a waste of time for stories like this? ...that you had to be insured that they would not hear such words and answers as during the fight against the element, that the water had to do with it, that it rose and posed a threat, and then flowed to the main river and the Baltic. Poles have the right to expect real action from the government today. We are telling Poles today that we will shield them and that this is the first step to this, as the Prime Minister said, to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. High Izbo! How do I use a shield? How to use a shield, the Roman legionaries knew. The shield is our defense. Today, I would also like to appeal to Parliament, to call for this unity, and to ask that we, acting together, be able to adopt this law, to appeal to local authorities to be able to also help their local entrepreneurs, to finally appeal to entrepreneurs so that together we can protect jobs for Poles. High Izbo! We often hear various suggestions, because this whole catalogue is really very comprehensive and thoughtful, but there is often a question: Okay, but what about me when I'm in a situation like this, and what about me when I'm in a different situation? Please note that there are solutions for each entrepreneur and for each group. We haven't forgotten the people who are on civil law contracts. For them, at least this basic benefit has been included here. We have not forgotten about those who are self-employed, who are on a tax card, who conduct single-person business activities, which have often been in a dramatic situation. We propose not only exemption from the Social Security Office, unless the revenue does not exceed three times the average salary, i.e. ca. 15 600 zł. We also offer the possibility of reaching for an allowance of 2 000. zł. We have proposals for micro-entrepreneurs. It was them and their companies, often family businesses, often companies with a great tradition, that were actually in a dramatic situation today. For them, this is also a solution with the ZUS. All their employees are exempt from the payment of the ZUS contribution. So they can just save jobs so they can decide to keep them on the market. There's 5,000, too. a loan which, however, will be deadly if there are no redundancies. Finally, we have a 90% reduction in rentals at the premises in the shopping malls that have been closed by our decision. We've got an account of all this year's losses next year. These are extremely important, concrete proposals. These proposals are also for the whole sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a parking, which is also associated with the ZUS, with the state taking the payment of ZUS. It is this 40% supplement to the salary, it is open credit lines, it is tax holidays, it is the refinancing of leasing contracts, as the minister said, for the whole transport industry, after all Poland is a power here - 27% The entire European Union market is our transport companies, our entrepreneurs. This support for the tourism industry, even if an extension of the deadline for reimbursement of the customer's payments from 14 to 180 days, is de minimis guarantees from BGK, it is interest subsidies, it is the PFR Investment Fund, the possibility of capital increase. There's even a $6 billion planned here. This is a lack of penalties for delays in public tenders, and finally a shift in the creation of employee capital plans in medium-sized enterprises to 1 October 2020 and a number of other facilitations that relieve bureaucratic tasks. All this is also to protect workers just to protect jobs. These are also solutions for farmers that we do not forget. It's stopping the price increases that are often happening today. Thanks to this bill it will also be possible to do so. It's a child benefit under the age of 8. Finally, it is a reduction in bureaucracy, even if it postpones the submission of PIT statements. Ladies and gentlemen! This is our first step, not our last step. To conclude our work on the economic crisis shield, on this package that we have presented here, we have also started work on the next laws, because we have more ideas to make it easier for us to get out of the situation in which we are in. I think that thanks to this effort that you have made to the marshal, which is that the Sejm will also be able to work remotely, we will be able to react quickly and respond to market demand. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be unfair to provide such guarantees that the shield will cover all costs incurred to businesses. It would be unfair of us to say that we are able to guarantee everyone's income, but it is fair to ensure that we are doing everything we can to protect jobs, that we are doing everything we can to protect the wealth of Poles. High Izbo! Many times as Poles we managed to get out of such oppression. There is one condition: we must act together. We have to work together, we have to be a community today. Not only here, in the Seym, not only as a political class, but primarily as a nation, as a synergy of government, self-government, business, entrepreneurs. High Izbo! Today is not the time to argue, today is not the time to make fun of selfies, today is not the time to shift responsibility, today is not the time even for each other to throw themselves at each other with various epithets. Today is the time to work together for Poland and to work together we want to encourage you very strongly, because at such moments, in the most dramatic moments, we can actually also build something big. Let me remind you at the end, perhaps a little to comfort your hearts, one story. Imagine you - this is a genuine story - a country that had to deal not with such a crisis, but with the fact that it suffered four great disasters that it lost. We are talking here about how every human life is precious, that behind each of them there are not numbers that are shown, numbers of infected and killed, but human dramas and disappointed human dreams. But imagine how 70,000 were killed in one day. The people who killed 150,000 people. people within a year suddenly, and in a country with a population not exceeding the population of Warsaw, what the parliament looked like. Where? Probably not much different. than we look today when we meet here. Although for other reasons, because our colleagues weren't in the next room, but simply either their sons were dead or they were dead. Imagine this country was on its knees, this country went bankrupt. In fact, as the Prime Minister also said about others. This country has gone bankrupt. Then he was assisted by entrepreneurs who gave credit to the state. Of course, we're not asking for it. Please support and save jobs. What country? Those four tragedies I told you about were called towns and rivers. It was Ticinus, Trebia, Lake Trasimine and Kanny. This country was Rome, cast on its knees by Hannibal. After 14 years he won a devastating victory, and those entrepreneurs who helped were also able to rebuild their property. High Izbo! This shows that from the greatest drama, from the most difficult situation you can come out reinforced. But Rome did not survive. We do not live in such dramatic times, we do not face such difficult problems and such great tragedies. But today, being together (the bell), we can recall together the words of Cyprian Kamil Norwid, that the homeland is a great collective duty. And with that in mind, I'm leaving you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u14	Thank you, sir. I would like to address a Member who had just asked this question. There's gonna be time on the platform. So far it hasn't been because of the connection to this system, but you'll see the passing time on the platform. Please, now Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We've been here since yesterday. We have been here since yesterday in a sense of responsibility, but also in the sense that we have a great duty to help everyone who is in a very difficult situation. Today we are talking not only about the Polish economy and health, but also about the values that should guide us all. Solidarity, community, sense of collective responsibility is something that should be of greatest value today. I regret that once again you are trying to divide Poles. I regret that, contrary to many appeals that appear today, you divide Polish workers into better and worse ones, you divide Polish employers into better and worse ones, you want to help only the chosen ones, without looking at the fact that today it does not matter whether the employee works in a small shop employing three people or in a factory employing several hundred people, because exactly the same people will be affected by the effects of the crisis. Today, once again, you are using a great world tragedy to attack the values on which the European Community is being built. It is not appropriate, Prime Minister, to appeal to the experiences of the Second World War and at the same time to show the weakness of the European Union. No, Prime Minister, it was thanks to the European Communities after the Second World War that we managed to rebuild Europe that we managed to guarantee peace. And today, as never before, we also need European solidarity, not an attack on common values. You don't understand the modern world, Prime Minister. You don't understand that community isn't just a community of your party, [[Applause]] that community and responsibility are needed at such a time. We called and asked: let us accept this package in agreement, but also in a sense of great responsibility. The Lord speaks today of the fact that every day is a great threat. That's right. And yesterday, you took care of yourselves instead of taking good care of yourself. We are making concrete proposals and amendments today. We want parents who are in today's home who are receiving a benefit after Monday, when your witness is over, but we also want caretakers with disabilities over the age of 8 and other caretakers of children over the age of 8. And we ask you to accept this solution. We also ask that you do not divide entrepreneurs into better and worse, workers into better and worse. We propose to re-bureaucratize this system, we propose clean rules for everyone. Polish entrepreneurs are begging for this, but Polish workers are begging for this. Prime Minister! Please understand that if you make state aid conditional on income, today, the lady who runs the grocery store has that revenue above 15,000. zł, only that there is no income, because the fixed costs are higher. Today, an employer who employs 11 people in a closed restaurant will have to fire these people because you figured that this is supposed to be a criterion of up to 9 people. Once again, I appeal: do not divide Poles into better and worse. [[Applause]] Quit with the division your president proposed a few years ago: for a better and worse sort. Today is a great time of trial, today is a time of trial for all of us, to claim fundamental principles in our sense of responsibility: social solidarity, equality towards the law, but also a community that we must rebuild together. Today, you tried to add solutions to the anti-crisis package that have nothing to do with the crisis. You wanted prosecutors to be able to lock people in their homes for three months without any control. Those were your ideas. Only thanks to our intervention did you change it with an autocorrection, but you're still trying to smuggle a recipe that will give impunity to officials who are going to get rich in this tragedy. You propose to throw away an official offence involving failure to fulfil your duties or exceeding your authority. This is a shame, Prime Minister, you should never have done this. This is the legalization of corruption. Finally, Prime Minister, think again about this strategy of yours. We want all those who are worried about losing their jobs over the divisions. That's a lie! Do not introduce bureaucratic provisions, do not introduce categories of employers and workers, do not introduce the concept of income when people don't even have income. And finally, don't behave. like banking rules, when advertising describes a promotion in big words, but then there is a star, and after this star there are more exemptions than rules. Because you, Prime Minister, are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland today, not the President of the Bank. And I remind you of that. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last thing. The responsible head of government would have introduced the state of the natural disaster a long time ago. You know why? It is precisely because, thanks to such a disaster, you Polish entrepreneurs, you who work hard for the budget to have taxes, could seek compensation. There would be no need for regulations to talk about B2B, C2B, as you said, because then the force majeure clause would apply. Today, by listening to your boss's voice, a very angry man who speaks only about the electoral interests, you do not introduce an emergency. This is yours. Shame, and that's your personal responsibility. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Isabella Leszczyn. Isabella Leszczyn. You're welcome. I just want to let you know that, in the meantime, our club has been asked to move to second reading without referring to the committee. Ours - what do you mean? You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today we're all at war. But, Prime Minister, you are not a war with the European Union or the Civic Coalition, today we are all at war with a virus that destroys the health and life of Poles and which destroys the health and life of the Polish economy. [[Applause]] Our responsibility, responsibility of politicians today is to save the health and life of Poles, health and life of the Polish economy. What needs to be done for the health system, you will tell Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, because he has been calling for it for weeks. But what must be done to win the war for the Polish economy, for the future of Poland to save jobs and companies? As epidemiologists say: tests, tests, tests, so economists say: liquidity, liquidity, liquidity. Today, this liquidity is desperately needed by shopkeepers, hairdressers, cosmetics, but also dramatically needed by companies that employ 10, 15 or 40 people. They also need companies that employ 100 and 1000 employees. They can all lose their jobs and be left with no means to live. The government said to various areas of the economy: stop. The rest is the virus that said stop, which is why you have to show: stop the charges for the fiscus, for the ZUS from all companies, from all employers and employees who are affected by this epidemic. [[Applause]] And that's not gonna be enough. You must also give a minimum wage to all employees, not 40% not depending on whether the company has lost more or less. Today, all companies affected by the epidemic must be sure that they will keep jobs, but only if, for the time of the epidemic, the government will pay the minimum wage because people will not get the money from their employer. How do you want to keep people at home? You can't keep a hungry man at home, he's gonna go out and look for money to buy food. If we want to stop the epidemic, as Minister Szumowski is calling for, then we must provide people with the means to live for this short time. And one more thing. You have to trust the entrepreneurs. You can't burden them with bureaucracy today. It has to be a statement, the entrepreneur makes a statement. You'll settle him first thing in a year. If you don't listen to us, you can't save companies, jobs, or the economy. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, I appeal to you, Prime Minister, for real help. [[Applause]] I do not want you to talk about 200 billion aid at a time when you are giving from the state budget in 2020 to fight the epidemic and its consequences of 10 billion from the state budget. That's ten times... 20. ...sorry, 20 times less. You give 20 times less, so what right do you say 200 billion zlotys? Today is not the time to save money. That was the time for four years. Today we, economic liberals, are telling you that today is the time to spend public money to save people's health and life, health and life of the Polish economy. [[Applause]] It's not enough to help some, it's not enough to help just a little. We need to help everyone who really needs this. We're telling you again: people need public money without propaganda, without a helicopter. Normally and in human terms, we appeal: give people money to live, just as the heirs of Solidarity, who all in this Chamber, or at least the vast majority, feel. [[Applause]] Very good, Iza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u18	Thank you. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! I told you yesterday, you can't beat a lie with a coronavirus. We have to tell the truth. I know this truth is painful, but even the most painful truth will allow us to find a good and wise solution. We can't beat Coronavirus if we don't have confidence. We need this trust as much as ever. A paramedic needs to trust a patient to tell him the truth about his infection. The nurse and the doctor must have confidence in the minister. If he says there's equipment, there's medicine and there's tests, they really are. [[Applause]] I saw the shocking footage of a paramedic today that told me what his work was like. We have to tell the truth, we can't fake it. The doctor, the hospital director, can't fire a nurse just because she's telling the truth. This can't be happening. We, Minister, need, and we know about this, more money for health care, for tests, for equipment, for security measures, but we also need money to support doctors and nurses, because they work very hard. They must feel like you're taking care of them right now. [[Applause]] We need confidence that the Prime Minister, when he talks about the European Union, knows that there are resources to be used there, which we can use in Poland to fight the epidemic. That is why we are proposing that 20 billion of these EU money should be spent on creating a targeted fund for the fight against the spread of Coronavirus. [[Applause]] That way we can buy equipment, equip hospitals, and reward doctors and nurses. It is very beautiful at every conference to go out and say: we thank you for your hard work, we admire your mission, but we must appreciate it. Conferences and medals can be later. They need our real support now. [[Applause]] We can also help doctors in another way, allowing Poles to stay at home, as Mr Leszczyn has just said. If people have economic security, they will stay at home and it will be easier for us to control this epidemic, but we must treat everyone the same - and large companies, and small, all employers. Here we must be solidarity, we cannot share Poles again. [[Applause]] That's why we're ready to cooperate, because this shield that the Prime Minister is talking about is very fragile and dimpled. Together, if you follow our advice, we can make it a good tool so that Poles really feel safe. You also need to listen to us, our advice, because we really know what we're saying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u20	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Today, as a society, we pass the test of the strength of solidarity, of being the community that the state should be in these difficult moments. It is also a test for us, for Members and Members. Now let's get out of here, now. This may be the most serious decision we will make in the coming decades. The most serious trial we've ever faced in our entire lives. We're all facing an epidemic that we can't estimate. We are on the eve of the economic crisis, the consequences of which also no one can predict. But we do know that our actions here and now depend on what condition we will be in after this crisis. Unfortunately, the future of millions of Poles and Poles depends on our decisions made in an empty room. The whole world has been fighting an uneven battle with the coronavirus for two months. This is not the time for us to talk about Rome in this room. This is the time for us to talk about Poland. [[Applause]] This is not the time for a political fight, this is not the time for a fight on the Internet and a media chase. The Left will not be involved. There's only one thing that matters today. Poles expect us to quickly and efficiently introduce laws that will help people to live safely, secure millions of Poles and Poles. Doctors, nurses, sellers, cashiers, mailmen, couriers, warehouse workers, shipping companies, co-operatives, farmers, restaurants, uniformed services and many, many other professions. Millions of you are working bravely today, going to work every day, risking getting infected with the virus, putting themselves and their families at risk. Today, thanks to their dedication, our country and economy are functioning. From here, from the Sejm, I would like to thank you all very much. We won't let you down. [[Applause]] In this House, we are to argue because that is what she is for. We're here to discuss. Today we should only talk about how to help Polish families, workers, how to save the economy and entrepreneurs. This message brings today to the Sejm of the Left. That's what we're gonna fight for. But if we're gonna work, let's be honest with each other. The left will not accept when the Prime Minister whispers the reality that everything is in our country. Let's face it: you could have done more and better prepared for the epidemic. The rulers slept through a lot of time when all the services in the world, Polish and foreign, alarmed. We ran out of masks, suits, and disinfectants. But there will be time for settlement, for consequences too. At this difficult time, we should be a political and social community. We, as the Left, declare such cooperation. We must do everything we can to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the number of infected has exceeded 1000, today is over 1200. The disease accelerates and we, as politicians, also need to accelerate. The left was, is, and will be near the people and their daily problems. Today, our countrymen need help. They're worried about how to keep up, whether they get paid rent, loan payments, or food. Poles don't know if they can afford drugs. So today there is nothing more important than developing solutions that protect everyone from the crisis, every Polish woman and every Pole. We owe them that. [[Applause]] As a Left, we have repeatedly declared and will continue to declare our willingness to cooperate. Our team of experts has prepared over 200 amendments. Some of them were able to enter, but a large part remained for today's vote. Wanting to cooperate does not mean that we will accept and support all government proposals uncritically. The Left has a duty to the citizens, but not to the authorities. That is why I am making it clear and clear: we are negatively assessing many government proposals. They show haste, shortsightedness, sometimes lack of reflection. Sometimes these are simply harmful and dangerous, anti-workers and anti-Citizens, after which the Left will not raise her hand. We will not allow today to apply medicine, which can harm the Polish economy more than the disease. We will not allow you to shift the cost of the crisis to citizens, workers and entrepreneurs. The Left will never agree that, in the context of the crisis, the government will give us shock therapy. On behalf of the Left Club, I make it clear that there is no agreement to hide a reduction in workers' wages in the regulations. All the more reason not to cut the salary by half. We will not allow you to limit your rest and increase your working time. There is no agreement to introduce restrictions on civil rights and freedoms in the back door. There is no agreement to limit the activities of non-governmental organisations. We don't agree with the introduction of the state into police custody, which is what you're proposing today. 70% The companies now want to fire their employees. It's yesterday's research. Millions of people pushed into trash deals or self-employment have already lost their jobs. All these people need help and pay. These aren't graphs or statistics. These are people, these are Poles and Poles. These are hundreds of thousands of families left without means to live. If you are interested in the fate of all these people, remember that from their consumption up to now the state budget has been fed. If they don't have the money, we can't explain it to all those who are responsible for the government's budgetary policy today. The Prime Minister spoke a lot today about the need for change. But where are the details, Prime Minister? Where are the details? The left puts them on the table and says clearly: this is our package. We need to extend workers' rights so that everyone can have a guaranteed salary, including those who are self-employed. We don't have to say today that we're gonna be cutting salaries. The left is clear: 3/4 pay should take over the state. As a result, the employer will only pay the remaining 25% salary, but only if it keeps the job. [[Applause]] We must guarantee the safety of millions of Poles and Poles. Tens, hundreds of thousands of people in Poland look to the future with concern. They know they can't afford credit. The Left appeals: let us introduce a law that will release payments for all loans for at least 6 months. [[Applause]] No one, I repeat: no one should get rich in poverty. In times of crisis, we must be solid and solidarity, not prey on the misery of others. We therefore also call for an anti-speculation committee, which will allow no one to grow on usury that there will be unjustified price increases. Apart from the employees, as we speak clearly, there are still entrepreneurs. We therefore call for the State to take over the financing of leases, leasing fees, electricity and gas bills during the crisis. It's about funding for at least six months, and if it takes longer. [[Applause]] We also demand that the Prime Minister introduce an exemption from the payment of ZUS tax and other taxes by our Polish entrepreneurs. Otherwise, these companies won't survive. Each zloty invested today is 2, or maybe 5 zlotys saved in the future. If millions of Poles and Poles are threatened with bankruptcy today, we should support them. You quoted Stiglitz today, but I recommend, Prime Minister, to read his conclusions as well. We can't restore the economy if we destroy employees' income by lowering their wages. This is the conclusion from this article you quoted today. The Prime Minister also told us not to spread fake news. I am the one calling, Prime Minister, for you not to share the fake news within the European Union and what it gives us. We must not lie about our European family. The European Union, which today gives us more than PLN 30 billion, is a great support. Prime Minister, let's not go this way. Finally, an important issue that concerns an important sector: health care. 7% It is not enough on the current scale of the pandemic to protect Poles from danger. Less than PLN 8 million per hospital. Prime Minister, this is definitely not enough. Needs are huge. From all over Poland information is available that there is no supply. This morning I spoke with one of the hospital directors in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. He said he called the Ministry of Health several times last week. Nobody's answering their phones this week. Long before the outbreak, the Left struck an alarm about bankrupt hospitals and closed branches. We warned you this would end badly. If Prime Minister Morawiecki has found 70 billion for the banking sector, he should know that 7.5 billion for health care is poor. The priorities really are somewhere else. It's not just masks and gloves that fight the epidemic. That's what the government says sometimes. People fight the epidemic: heroic doctors, nurses and all medical personnel. It's mostly them today, and I bow to them, fighting like heroes against this pandemic. And they also deserve compensation. That is why the Left appeals: accept our amendment providing for an additional 50% rates for hospital staff. I am glad that you have accepted some amendments, including. The fact that the medical staff won't have to work without the opt-out clause. I am pleased that the government's guarantee also applies to single-name hospitals, which will additionally insure doctors. Today, however, it is time to financially support doctors on the front line as well. Dear Members, Finally, I appeal to you with an appeal: I ask for a joint, substantive and peaceful work on this bill. The life and health of Poles and Poles has no party colors. The epidemic has no political sympathy. Coronavirus does not vote. And if we want to deal effectively with the epidemic, we need to work together. Similarly, it does not matter what option we come from, whether we are government today or opposition, whether the amendments are from Left, PSL, Platform or PiS. These solutions are supposed to be good for Poland. In the current shape, an anti-crisis shield is not enough and the Prime Minister knows it well. It is also sometimes very anti-entrepreneurial, harmful, counterproductive - and this must also be said openly. We are ready to do substantive work before the final adoption of the bill. We have a package of our own fixes and ready solutions. We prepared them a week ago. They were presented by our presidential candidate Robert Biedron. Once again, we are appealing for what is in the introduction. Let's do everything we can to make sure this meeting doesn't take a few hours so that you don't walk through this bill so that we have the right to help the workers and the workers. The citizens will not forgive us otherwise, that we accept the wrong law. We are counting on the responsible behaviour of the government. The Left will do everything to ensure that no one is left alone in times of crisis. Neither entrepreneurs who are currently fighting to save jobs nor millions of employees who are not even sure of tomorrow. At the moment, we are fighting for Poles, 38 million Poles and Poles to live a decent life. As a Left, we are the voice of all those who are on non-Codex contracts, on self-employment. We speak on behalf of pensioners who are afraid to pay their benefits. We speak with the voice of small, micro and medium-sized enterprises whose lack of state will deprive them of their ability to function and bankrupt. We are asking for healthcare workers who have been suffering from chronic underfunding for years. We speak with the voice of co-cooperatives and farmers. We're speaking responsibly today. If we want this right to serve Poles and Poles, we must all unite. But we can't walk like a roller through these laws just because we have to take them within three hours. The Left will not agree to limit the workers' rights of millions of Poles and Poles. It can't be that these people are gonna pay for this crisis. This is the condition of the Left when it comes to supporting this project. This is the wall we're building. Either the Poles and Poles will see that we want to help them, they will see that there is agreement in this House, they will see that we are with them, or they will never forgive us. This is the condition of the Left, from which we will not withdraw, because our responsibility is not before the government, it is before citizens and citizens, it is before our compatriots, it is before Poland. The left will always be on your side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But it still needs to be increased today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u22	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 I want to speak in one of the most important debates in recent decades. Prime Minister, first of all, it's a request. Please make your ministers aware that they are not involved in the reconstruction of the Battle of Carthage, but in the fight against the koravirus for jobs, for health and life, for the Polish economy. I mean, you gotta get down on the ground. We are not at a meeting of the historical circle, only in the Polish parliament, and we are talking about the life and health of Polish patients, the Polish economy, about saving us from the economic armagedon. Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, What are you doing? How are you guys acting? [[Applause]] It's really time for panel discussions, historical discussions. That's the first thing. The first thing we need to do is reconnaissance. And the diagnosis is that the coronavirus attacked us not only biologically - there are injured patients, there are whole families who are scared today, there are health workers who fight every day for health and life - but also attacked the Polish economy. By June 1,2 million people may be unemployed. Unemployment can be two-digit back. Mass layoffs, group redundancies in many workplaces may occur in the coming weeks. 70% companies can make redundancies. Every other Polish company could fall. This is the situation and this is today's diagnosis and diagnosis. What is the treatment? What can we do to save every job today? First of all, solidarity. And here is the consent of Minister Emilevich. Yes, solidarity of Poles, we pass the test of solidarity, neighbouring aid, helping one another. They pass the solidarity test of health workers, because despite deficiencies in protective equipment they are on the front line of the fight. You didn't secure them. That's negligence, that's what you'll be accounted for. But they fight and pass the solidarity test. And now there's a question for all of us here, in this Chamber, of all parliamentarians: will we pass the solidarity test? Are we ready to break up these wars, hide all of this, these pinches, and normally apply the principle of solidarity? But solidarity must be two-way. We have supported your bill, giving you gigantic powers, we have not tabled amendments in the Senate to the specialty on the fight against the coronavirus, but it is now you must take our amendments to this law seriously and not say that if the opposition says anything, it is a wish concert. Because as we talked about a voluntary ZUS 2 weeks ago, 2 months ago, it was a wish concert for you, it was wishful thinking, but when the President signed it, you say, "Yes, it's a good idea." Stop all this propaganda and hypocrisy. Don't promote Andrzej Duda, because it doesn't help him, and it can hurt many Polish companies because they don't know what's going on, because these messages after the Cabinet Council were so bad and so hopeless that nothing came out of it. Second thing. As the opposition today reports even difficult at first glance to accept the amendment, lean on them. A normal consultation with Minister Emilewicz is possible. Thank you. We made a motion yesterday to withdraw from all this stupidity, to introduce restrictions, to amend the Penal Code, to mess with the economic bill. It doesn't make any sense. It's a concrete move. Voluntary ZUS, regardless of the size of the company, because the coronavirus doesn't act pointily that it only attacks micro-enterprises, it attacks all. Support should be given to those companies that have suffered losses, regardless of their size. PIT fired, CIT fired. Fired, not postponed. Same with the loans. Not only do you need to apply a credit holiday, but also extend the loan repayment period, because someone may have a loan to repay for another 7 months, they will benefit from a credit holiday for 6 months. So? In this one last month, he still has to pay back everything, all his debt, all his credit. It doesn't make any sense. VAT must be refunded as soon as possible. That's what entrepreneurs talk about all the time, demanding an immediate refund of VAT. Non-interest-bearing loans from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. We need loan support, a big line of credit. That's what Marshal Tyszek's gonna talk about. Not 5,000. from the Labour Fund. The Prime Minister spoke about how you kept your instruments safe, how you secured the financial foundations. Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. Prime Minister, how much money is there? 700 million or just 250 million already? And he's gonna get paid. That paycheck has to be. I understand the conclusions of the Left. Remember, don't barge in, either, but I understand your struggle for workers' rights. We speak directly: minimum wage for every employee whose company has suffered. Let's not differentiate: 80% here minimum, this is 40%. The average. It really doesn't make sense. That's not gonna help. Simple, clear rules. No statements or testimonies on four or five pages. Do you remember the heated discussion after you showed your applications to the ZUS on four sides to show your assets 3 years ago? For the Prime Minister, because he referred to it, the opinions of the experts of economic institutes are important. Prime Minister, it is important for me, during the crisis, to have the opinion of real experts: Polish entrepreneurs. Mrs. Hanny, who runs a travel agency, Mr. Stanisław, who owns a transport company, and Mr. Jan, who wrote to me just now: a little lame that the government takes into account income, not income, and that from February, e.g. I have a small margin, but the revenue in February I had over 15 600 and ZUS I will have to pay even though in March I already have a megassage of income and almost zero income. This is the voice of a real expert. You didn't understand. Don't look for them in the great economic institutes. Look for these experts among Polish entrepreneurs, Polish employers. It's a good thing you've added solutions to the farmers. At the Cabinet Council meetings for the first weeks, you didn't remember them at all. You listened to our voice. The welfare allowance must be paid in the same way for insured persons in ZUS and KRUS, the sickness allowance must be from day one, and as far as companies are concerned, the company is no longer to pay the funds from day one, and after 30 days take over the ZUS, only the State must take this responsibility. The more we invest today, the more money will be run in the form of loans, but also in the form of non-refundable subsidies for Polish companies, the more they will return it in their activity, in their taxes, after the reconstruction of the Polish economy. Let's save every job. I also ask for Polish self-governments. There must be an exemption from real estate tax, from agricultural tax, to the redemption of these taxes for the coming months, there must be support for local governments by the government. You can't leave a small community to yourself. They already have big problems with keeping the school, paying the teachers' salaries. After this economic armagedon, they can simply fall. It's also about municipal companies. We have a huge undertaking to carry out Poland through a crisis that we have not known, which we have not experienced. We're standing over the abyss. Some are paralyzed by fear, do not know how to behave, others want to go blind, even without weapons. And here you have to take a strong run and jump that gap. And that's possible. The principle of solidarity, the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of responsibility for one another. I want to end with a plea for what's going on in health care. You can't leave doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists and pharmacists alone. They need to be paid better for this time of hard work. We need to secure the patients, but we also need to give them a chance to get oncology to the doctor today and be admitted. A week could last, maybe two weeks, but it'll be too late. What are cancer patients supposed to do, after transplants, with diseases that can't wait? What is the course of action for them? You have to keep them informed. We are ready to cooperate, I declare this cooperation once again. Comply with our next demands in the amendments: voluntary ZUS for all, CIT, PIT frozen, uncollected, rapid VAT refund, property tax, wages for employees in minimum... minimum wage for every employee who needs this support, benefits not up to the age of 8 years, only for care of older children. These aren't terms, these are our demands, I'll make it clear. They are simply needed because they are demands of employees and employers. Let's do it together. This right must be adopted as soon as possible, but it must be wisely adopted and well adopted. From April 1st these laws must act. I hope that the implementing acts are prepared, that the regulations are prepared, because it must be immediately. Finally, the motion to the Marshal: The Sejm should not interrupt its deliberations, it should work on a continuous basis every day. The meeting is to take place every day. In two weeks I expect the Prime Minister to report on the implementation of the anti-crisis law. We will win this fight only jointly and responsibly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u24	Please, Mr Stanisław Tyszka, the club of the Polish People's Party. Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, Mr. Marshal. Please, Adam, say it every time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will talk less politically, more about the economy and entrepreneurs. The world and Polish economy look like a man shot from a cannon at the moment, while our government, headed by Prime Minister Morawiecki, comes with a gentleman and a slice and thus wants to save the situation. This comparison tells us that what has been proposed to us is not even a half measure. This is not even a quarter centre, it is completely different from what the Prime Minister said in his speech at the beginning, which is that we are probably dealing with the biggest crisis since the big crisis of the 20s and 30s. Last century. Please note that even during the war some of the establishments were functioning, small trade, crafts, services. We are dealing with an absolutely unprecedented situation which requires the immediate implementation of radical actions. The most powerful countries in the world, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Germany, know this. The governments and central banks of these countries are introducing massive, wide-ranging aid programmes on a much larger scale than Poland is introducing. The Polish government, submitting this project that we received today, behaves like a child in fog. Unfortunately, I am saying this with regret, because I value this gesture in the form of recent consultations. On the other hand, we still have a situation in which the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr.Glapiński, just a few days ago, said that we will have a 2% increase in GDP this year. These are, of course, fairy tales, because in a moment we may have a situation in which hundreds of thousands of Polish companies will fall, millions of people will lose their jobs if radical, much more radical actions are not taken immediately. I have the impression that this shield has been written by officials for the purpose of civil servants. Instead of simple automatic mechanisms, the shield assumes complicated bureaucratic procedures, submitting applications with dozens of attachments and safeguards for bureaucrats. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we will have megarecession, and we will never get out of this. We conducted a very quick consultation with our immediate facilities, i.e. thousands of entrepreneurs, within a few hours we probably received over 1 000. e-mails and 10 requests we sent to the Prime Minister. Now let me read them because they're surprisingly repetitive. First, voluntary ZUS for all entrepreneurs. Secondly, the introduction of a general abolition for companies from public-law danins, mainly PIT, CIT, VAT and ZUS contributions for 3 months. Release of funds from the accounts and immediate refund of VAT. Deferral of time limits for reporting and tax returns by at least 1 July. Credit and leasing holidays for 3 months plus another 3 months deferral of instalments. PIT tax-free amount for all - 30,000. zł. Deferral or reduction of rent charges, epidemic rent and exemption from property tax including compensation for local authorities. Increase the limit of interest-free loans to 50,000. PLN for micro-, small and medium-sized companies. Possibility of deduction for entrepreneurs of the loss of 2020 from the revenue of 2019. Payment of sickness benefit from the first day of downtime. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of these demands have been partially met. It is absolutely not enough to stop hundreds of thousands of Polish companies from falling at the moment. I value the social sensitivity of the left, but it is that if we think only in terms of employees at this point, these workers will have nowhere to go. First of all, we must save hundreds of thousands of Polish companies. Let me remind you that we have 2 million Polish companies in Poland, which employ 10 million people. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday I allowed myself to pass on to Minister Emilewicz the idea of Kukiz'15 - Polish Coalition for the introduction of a liquidity fund. I have heard from a representative of the Civic Platform that entrepreneurs say: liquidity, liquidity, liquidity. That's true, and that's what all the entrepreneurs we've talked to have said, and we wanted to come up with a concrete project for this. He's been sent to Minister Emilewicz, and we'll be happy to publish it in public. The liquidity fund - we have already tabled this amendment to this law - from which rental fees and all continuous obligations of all entrepreneurs are to be financed. The Fund will be operated by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and applications will be processed within no more than 3 days with minimum formalities. Everything will be done electronically and without the need to send thousands of paperwork. Like the German fund will not have a top limit (the bell) and will be available to all companies regardless of size. This is exactly what Polish entrepreneurs want. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to their voice. Read, Prime Minister, an appeal from the furniture industry that employs nearly 200,000. persons. That's something... Thank you very much, sir. Last sentence, Marshal. If you could allow me to have an old relationship with the Bureau... That's not a good argument. This is, Prime Minister, the strongest weapon we can give at this moment. I realise that it is unorthodox to lead to a large debt of the state, but we are at a stage where all countries will be in debt. If we don't deliver, we'll provide immediately... Thank you very much, sir. ...this week, the liquidity of Polish companies, these companies will simply disappear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! We've come to this point where we can finally discuss an anti-crisis shield. After many days, after many weeks of announcements, at a time when other governments have already launched simple solutions to support or appealing burdens for entrepreneurs, we can discuss. We can discuss solutions that will start working in maybe a month, maybe in a quarter, and maybe not know when, because you are introducing 24 new administrative procedures in your proposals, which do not yet exist at the moment, when many offices have switched to remote work or are paralyzed, like many companies in Poland. Prime Minister! In this way, it is not possible to organise rapid and effective assistance for entrepreneurs or the labour market. Thousands of people have already been fired. Monday and Tuesday, the last days of this month, more people will be given notice. The labour market solutions proposed by you will start working in many months. This is a tool completely unmatched to your needs. There are four simple ways that should be used in an anti-crisis shield that the government should propose. First, to maintain wages immediately, here and now, for companies that can't operate. Second, exemption from the Social Security Office and taxes. If there is the amount of money that the government wants to allocate to aid, the entire amount should be divided between the operating companies and should be allowed to release automatically, without writing any conclusions - the simplest procedure in the world. Third - access to working capital without any special procedures, preferential credit. Fourth and last - withdrawal of all new taxes. Minister Emilevich promised that the sugar tax would not enter. At the moment, we hear that these announcements are out of date. Unfortunately, these four simple solutions are not in the area of government interest. Instead, we have a whole range of extremely complex solutions that will take months to implement and implement. Some of the announcements made by your Prime Minister will start in a year or two years, for example. infrastructure investments, the amount of which has been included in this 200 billion, purely media. We're after a week of theater consultations. On Monday, at the National Security Council meeting, no one knew the government projects, and we were all supposed to pretend we were discussing them. Why are we involved in such a theatrical consultation? That's today, because the bill designs have been known since last night, there's been a real discussion. But you want to vote everything out tonight. [[Applause]] So our voice, the voice of society, the voice of economic organizations, doesn't really matter. We're just here to vote it out. Okay, we'll do it. We've prepared 39 amendments that we're about to make. I will try to quickly discuss the main directions in which we want to go, trying to improve what the government has brought. The first case of the 19 I will mention: exemption from the Social Security Office for all businesses under the law, not only for some and not on request. As much as we can afford, Prime Minister. As much as you want to increase your budget deficit, as we were just talking about. Second - ZUS remission for the most affected industries and by law, not only for some companies and upon request. A situation in which an undertaking carrying out identical activities, employing nine employees, has the right to exemption from the Social Security Office, and with 10 employees - there is no one, is curiasal. Third - immediate VAT returns. We will make an amendment on this. Fourth - release of funds frozen on split payment accounts. Fifth - wage subsidies immediately and for 6 months, not after a bureaucratic health path and for 3 months. Sixth - the minimum national parking fee paid in full by the State and not partly paid by the unemployed employer. Seventh - wage and parking subsidies without an obligation to maintain a post-crisis job. Stiffening businesses in times of crisis cannot have a good effect because entrepreneurs have to adapt to changing economic circumstances. The expectation that at the moment employers will enter into some kind of contract with the government, that no one will be fired, in order to get some help, is completely counterproductive. A rational entrepreneur will not choose to do so. Why should the company freeze its employment at a time of decline in turnover and crisis? This is irrational. Seventh - wage and parking subsidies without the obligation to maintain jobs. That's what I said. Eight - payments of sickness benefits from the Social Security Office from the first day. It's also a way to relieve entrepreneurs of fixed costs. You don't have to create any official committees to bring that relief. You just have to change the recipe. 9th - adjournment by 30 September of all declarations of reporting obligations, not just some and only until June. Prime Minister, this week I was approached by an entrepreneur when I entered my bank, and he asked: "Why does the Ministry promise to extend time for tax interpretations, and this is about months, and it does not delay the time for filing tax returns? This is action. Totally anti-business. Tenth - statutory suspension of repayment of loans and leasing related to business activities. Loans and leases are one of the main items in the fixed costs of enterprises. Eleventh - statutory suspension of repayment of loans to downtime workers and people receiving support for self-employed and employed under civil law contracts. Our 12th proposal - budget subsidies to the costs of business premises subject to a decrease in turnover or downtime. Here's a little point. Constitutionalists have already argued that not introducing an extraordinary state is, first, a constitutional delicacy. You apply all the solutions, ma'am, which belong to an emergency without introducing them. Bravo! ...so as not to applaud. And at the same time, you avoid compensation for property losses resulting from a special bill. Losses must be compensated for by those who have been administratively limited in their ability to act. If there was an emergency, the government would have the responsibility. Without introducing a state of emergency, the government took that responsibility off its chest. This is a constitutional delicacy. Next issue - support from the Polish Development Fund for Polish companies, not foreign companies. We will also make an amendment here. Our 14th amendment and our request, very interesting. Yesterday, when we consulted the government on an anti-crisis shield, we caught the government saying otherwise in the media, and that's not what he put into the project. Namely, the payment to the salary and the exemption from the Social Security Office, not just one to choose from. We are making an amendment - we hope that it will be taken into account - so that you can benefit from salary subsidies at the same time and from the exemption from the Social Security Office, not so that the entrepreneur has to choose. Fifteenth - opposition to the use of an anti-crisis shield to increase fiscal pressure and ZUS privileges. Yesterday Minister Emilewicz admitted that the registration by the ZUS of works contracts was an introduction to the use of them. The crisis is not sometimes to increase fiscal burdens or prepare for it. Sixteenth - don't take the responsibility off the officials. E.g. The Social Security Office is not to pay interest for withholding benefits. Seventeenth - an epidemic cannot be an excuse to increase the power of the prosecutor's office. Putting in house arrests right now is a complete misunderstanding. How could the government come up with such a thing, Prime Minister? Eighteenth case. The VAT spot method that we propose to relieve entrepreneurs. Nineteenth - opposition to maximum prices. How can unlimited maximum prices be proposed? Twenty cases - bureaucratic shield. 24 new applications and procedures. Here are our amendments. We're offering them. These are two amendments to the Health Protection Act - we will be submitting them in a moment - as many as 32 amendments to the Anti-crisis Main Act and five amendments to the Development Fund Act. We're counting on taking them into account. We've only got 23 minutes to discuss all of this today. This is less than a minute to correct, because we make 39 amendments. These are substantive amendments. Our experts, our lawyers worked nights because we had these projects delivered at night. Nevertheless, for the sake of the citizens, we do not reject this opportunity for the sake of Polish entrepreneurs. Please take a look at these amendments, use them. Please don't create new official procedures, just introduce automation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u28	Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that you are unaware of the seriousness of the situation in which employers and employees are in. To this day, employers hold back decisions in the hope of solutions that already exist in other countries, refrain from deciding whether to cut their expenses or to shut down a company or to fire people. Today the future of millions of Polish families is decided. Unfortunately, what we received today is not an anti-crisis shield, it's a media shield. How do you do that to show that you're helping everyone, but not helping anyone? Unfortunately, it's a bureaucratic shield. All these aspects, which Krzysztof Bosak just mentioned, make the employer now face a huge dilemma. Firstly, whether to benefit from the relief for its ZUS or to benefit from the aid to the basic employee. Secondly, whether to take the risk - because he does not know what will be next in a month, 2, 3, 4 months - and to benefit from the payment to the employee, but he will be obliged to maintain this employee. It's all going to go to such a solution that the employer will say: thank you, I'm shutting down the business. These are not solutions that will help keep jobs in Poland. Unfortunately, these solutions are intended to serve, I have an impression, only officials. It is completely absurd to enter into records, to delete works contracts at the moment and in a crisis situation. This state of emergency introduced de facto, but not de iure, sends the entire economy, employers and workers to quarantine. The State should also send taxes and charges to quarantine in such a situation, as there will be nothing to pay for them. Ladies and gentlemen! I propose that the amendments tabled by the Confederation be implemented as soon as possible, because only this will provide support for jobs as soon as possible so that the Poles have something to buy bread for tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u30	Thank you. Now we're going to connect remotely with Mr. Konrad Berkowicz from the room he's in. You're welcome to join us. You're welcome, sir. You're on the air. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope you can hear me well, because this is the first online performance in the Sejm's history. You're hearing great. I hope you can hear me well, because these are serious things. Polish entrepreneurs as a result of the pandemic, as a result of the government's actions face a rapid bankruptcy. Polish entrepreneurs had to stop working, they could not earn, and they still had to pay a racket in the form of various taxes and ZUS contributions for the state. However, an anti-crisis shield is designed so that almost no one can benefit from it so that almost no one can benefit from various tax breaks. It's a shield, it's not an economic bill, it's a marketing bill. She takes out entrepreneurs brutally, and the rest of the Poles are blind to the fact that the government is doing something about the economy. That is why I strongly urge Prime Minister Morawiecki to implement, in addition to the other amendments tabled today by my colleagues, among others. The confederate's demand for parliamentary elections and relieved entrepreneurs and employees from paying ZUS at least for the time of this crisis, because we can't afford to drown money now in this black hole, which is ZUS. Just because entrepreneurs are sometimes wearing masks on their faces doesn't mean you can spit in their faces, and that's what the so-called one is. An anti-crisis shield. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u32	Mr Grzegorz Braun, also remotely from room 102. You're welcome. Do we have a link to your envoy?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u33	Mr. Marshal the Great Venerable! High Izbo! I would like to point out that my speaking time was running even before I had the chance to start. It's just a little thing, the grotesque thing you've turned the proceedings of the High House into. Citizens see it, our countrymen. There is no time here and there is no time for serious talk not about the crisis, but about the result of the actions undertaken by the central administration of Warsaw under the pretext of not fully recognized phenomena, which some define as an act of biological war, and others decide to believe what the world mass media reports. These world mass media or Warsaw media do not explain why, for example. A week ago, this famous virus number 19 fell from the British list of diseases defined as particularly risky - high consequence infectious diseases. There is this side of the British Government and they have just changed the category of this virus, which does not, of course, change the course of the Warsaw government, which, of course, does not apply to British decisions, but following the example from abroad, the Warsaw government like your mother cools to zero Polish economy. And here will not be the opportunity to complain about all the issues where the Confederation is making amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will notice, Mr. Marshal, that I do not see here on any of the monitors in the room where you instructed me to put me, I do not see time... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u34	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to disconnect the MP. Thank you. Let's get to the questions. But before that, we have a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I propose that the draft laws be sent to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Health. The procedure we're working on, i.e. print number 299, 301 or 302, should be extended, as we said in the initial formal motion, Mr. Marshal, which is why I'm putting...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u36	Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. A list of reported... Five people have been asked questions. I'm closing the list of reporters. I'm gonna set the time-- one and a half minutes. Please, Mrs Maria Janyska. If one of the clubs didn't use it, can we do it? No. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister announced that we would have the best anti-crisis package in the world. And in these 2 weeks the world of economy: small, micro, medium, large, employees, contractors, etc., etc. They waited for solutions and asked themselves at that time what would happen tomorrow. They asked themselves this question because many of them no longer had a job at that time, many of them had already ceased their business activities, and for many of them this day was to come any moment. The final project came out yesterday. And what questions are these groups asking today? They ask persistent questions: Why? And these questions: why, there are plenty. Why are these solutions not generally addressed to everyone affected by this crisis? Why public tributes are generally not cancelled during the crisis without unnecessary bureaucracy, but on statements. Why can't everyone take advantage of the cancellation of the ZUS contribution, taxes: PIT, CIT, why can't everyone be guaranteed the lowest wages during the crisis so that they can survive and save it? Why is this shield at the very beginning no longer sufficient? These questions are addressed, among others. to members of the economic committee who will unfortunately not be able to work on it. And now, everyone who sits on tablets, members of the Economic Committee, the United Right, take this to heart, take all the questions you have, to heart, vote for the amendments of the Civic Coalition (the bell), which answers these questions and gives solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, as President Gawkowski said, 70% companies currently want to fire their employees and wonder about redundancies, about lowering their salary. I therefore have a question to ask the Minister whether the government is actually analysing the situation on the labour market and assessing what potential group of workers can cover these restrictions arising from the current situation. The next question is: Does the government plan to support labour offices when it comes to labour offices? Because it is to be expected that, despite the introduction of these laws, despite these protective measures, the number of unemployed in the market will increase, and this will result in these labour offices having far more tasks. Another point is that of what the Minister said, namely protection, especially tourism, the tourism industry. And we have this question: what about transport companies? Has the subject of tax exemption been analysed in the case of means of transport, which are the tools of work for these companies? Last question: Does the government in any way plan compensation for local governments resulting from the tax reduction of PIT and CIT, i.e. from smaller revenues to local budgets? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u40	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u41	Thank you, Marshal. Prime Minister! First question to you and to Minister Emilewicz: Do you know the contents of the regulations issued by the Minister of Health, the declaration of the epidemic, first the threat and then the epidemic, 13 and 20 March? There, these industries are listed directly, with PKD numbers, to which the government has limited its economic activity. I'm not saying it's unjustified, but the result is the financial crisis that these companies are falling into. Most of them are not micro-enterprises, but medium-sized enterprises. So why aren't there solutions for these companies to cancel the ZUS and tax relief, since their activities have been reduced and their financial problems are the result of a decision, a legitimate but government decision? Second question. Prime Minister, you said there would be an economic reflection in time. You believe that. But if public tributes, ZUS contributions, real estate taxes, CIT, PITs, if the loan is extended today, a huge agreement between the bank union and the President of the Republic of Poland on the extension, and not on the withdrawal from the loan instalments, and this will be accumulated in a few months' time when it comes to the need to pay, there will be no rebounds, either in the form of a "U" or a "V" form, but only a ruin in the case of Polish companies. And one last question, Prime Minister. The European Union. Have you heard about the fact that yesterday the European Parliament adopted the package, so earlier than we do? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know the website of the Ministry of Digitalization and the article from yesterday, where it says that 180 million for help in remote learning for school students in Poland was allocated from the EU budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u42	Thank you. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, yesterday a bill came in, several dozen pages, and today it has already received an autocorrection, as well as many pages. And that means it's really one big mess. This is not a shield, Prime Minister, it is simply a sieve that we will patch repeatedly. We will meet again and again to help other industries. I believe that at a time when a tsunami comes into the economy after a pandemic, we need to help entrepreneurs very much, not just the smallest ones, but those who employ more people. These people, these companies, you don't want to help. Many of them today and on Monday will decide that they will fire the workers, because unfortunately there is no help for them in these projects, and that is very sad. Tsunami in the economy will come in the coming weeks, because millions of people may lose their jobs because you don't want to help them. You help banks, you want help running through banks, not companies. The sad thing is, you don't want to fire the ZUS, from the fees in the ZUS of all those who are actually standing. And another thing. Why don't you help the paramedics, the nurses, those who work on the front line? All those who risk their lives today, so that fewer and fewer people are infected, should know that the Polish state will not forget them, and you want to give them forced labour rather than financial aid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's sad that this is how our community is acting today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u44	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am, Prime Minister, particularly sad, or rather embarrassed that the Polish Prime Minister is repeating the message of Russian propaganda that the European Union is not helping. This is extremely dangerous, especially since we are a member of the Community. You, Prime Minister, have two flags behind you: the flag of the Republic of Poland, but also the flag of the European Union. I'd like to know why you're lying. 33 740 million PLN - this will be the amount of aid for Poland. It's money that's gone. Why are you lying, Prime Minister, on a day like this when we should all be together? 5 billion zlotys are already in accounts. This is money that the Polish government can already spend. You're saying the Union isn't helping, right? Wait, let's see. Attention, Poland did not use the EU mechanism so that Poles could return home for free. People paid thousands of PLN to LOT so that they could return to Poland because Poland did not benefit from an EU mechanism where people could go home for free. The Union isn't helping, is it? Let's check it out. Message from 2 days ago: masks, gloves, suits will soon be sent to the countries of the European Union. Offers have already been opened in this case. But Poland did not participate in this mechanism because the tender was too late. That's the problem today. Let us not tell lies, let us tell the truth, because Poles have the right to know the truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are Polish Prime Minister, but Poland is also a member of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u46	Thank you. Minister of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to answer both the questions and the doubts raised in these opening speeches as well as in individual questions. And I have to say, I'm shocked by the scope of public aid that the opposition clubs would like to provide. I think it's very useful here to say that no one will ever give as much as the opposition promises. We can switch, we can give. But let's actually make sense. Very interesting, very interesting was Mrs Leszczyna's speech, from which I took one sentence: people need public money. I would like to remind you of the quotations from your speeches when our government proposed social programmes such as 500+ and then extend this programme to the first child. At the time, you were in a very different position, and you did not say that these people needed public money. The situation is different, Minister. Answer the questions. You don't agree at a time like this, Minister. But it's an interesting change. This is your speech. I'm referring to the speeches. In the opposition's speeches there was a request for an anti-speculation committee. I wanted to remind and recommend a careful reading of the law, because in our law we propose, we introduce a reduction in margins and maximum prices for both products needed for care, personal protection and important food products. This control will be carried out by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Health, in agreement. Decisions depending on the products will be taken by the competent authorities and services. At the same time, I would like to thank you because we had a long and - I think - very substantive discussion of the various laws last night late and 2 days ago. We thank you for paying attention to the possibility of including public aid for those who will be exempt from the obligation to pay social security contributions under the law, including the possibility of parking. We will gladly accept this amendment. We also thank you for your comments on the possibility for those covered by agricultural insurance to benefit, those who are in quarantine, or the possibility of extending the welfare allowance to those covered by this insurance. I answer questions. In her rhetorical speech, Mrs Janyska asks whether the shield is not sufficient. I would like to tell you that there have been a lot of doubts in our public space over the last few weeks, appeals, references to public aid schemes proposed by other Member States. I would not like to compare myself with countries such as Denmark, which you have referred to, even though there is no guaranteed minimum wage - we are talking about a 75% salary. We are not talking about countries that have had the opportunity to build the wealth of their nations over the past two centuries. We've been rebuilding them with the canopy for the last three decades, and actually today we may not be able to offer such a wide range of programs. But if we look at our range of help... Very often you said: make us Budapest in Warsaw, and we do Warsaw on a much larger scale. That's what the president said. You made a mistake. Budapest wasn't us. Chairman, over there. Please read with attention the Hungarian regulations on state aid proposed today. It is, yes, the abolition of social security contributions. Common? No, for the selected six industries. And what else? There's a continuance, not an analyzing - a continuance of social security contributions. We don't want it like Hungarians. What about today's situation? We propose much more than other cover packages, which are proposed not only in the countries of our region but also in the Union, in other Member States. As we said, we also try to take care of those who today have no legal basis to benefit from any form of benefit, from any form of benefit. Those who work on contract contracts, those who work on contract work, in our package will be able to obtain benefits. Of course, it is easy to say that today the state should pay all its salaries. How do you compare these statements with those during the past term when you said to us that we do not understand the free market that we are introducing a centrally planned economy? How do these statements relate to today's claim that the Polish state is to take over the pay responsibilities of everyone? We are talking about sharing this responsibility proportionally, and we are trying, as I said, to help everyone (the Bell), the weakest, the stronger the little less. Mr Wieczorek asks if we are analysing the situation on the labour market. Yes, of course, we monitor it constantly and every day. We monitor together with the Social Insurance Institution, but also by contacting the industry directly, what the presence of workers in the labour market looks like today, what benefits and benefits they benefit from. In fact, we will be able to say more in the first weeks of April, when the pay period closes, and we will be looking and fine-tuning the instruments to the evolving situation. Are we planning compensation for local governments? Ladies and gentlemen, this law is very large, it interferes with many elements - it offers not only direct aid but also administrative facilitation. But already this week the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration together with the Ministry of Finance prepared... analyzes, meets with the Association of Polish Cities, a union of metropolitan areas and prepares, together with the local government, a protection package, because we realize how important and difficult the moments are at this moment, also for the local government. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. Now he's got a voice... You can say: Is this package enough? I will say this: probably no one today can say what package would be sufficient. We must observe the situation and respond adequately, and we are ready to do so. We'll be watching and responding adequately. [[Applause]] And the question of adequacy?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u48	Minister Janusz Cieszyński has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. No, you're quitting. There it is, there it is. But he doesn't want to. Thank you very much. High Izbo! In the discussion, proposals were made: to refer draft laws - here are the print numbers 299, 299-A, 301, 301-A and 302 - to the committee and to join the second reading of these laws immediately. Mr. Marshal... We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in a moment. May I? About the formal issue. How about after the break? Really, let me. That's what you're talking about. You have one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! We wouldn't want to be seen by... We really understand that this is about time and we do not want, as the Left would like, to sit until Sunday or Monday just to sit longer. We must sit as long as we have to, and we must not prolong it. However, there are some things we need to say to ourselves, Minister, and that is why we must object to the PiS proposal in order to move on without discussion, because we know nothing about the basic issues. Minister! You just had a chance to answer the questions, and you didn't actually answer the simplest of them. I would like to ask you and Prime Minister Morawiecki, who referred to this, told us how many people lost their jobs in the United States, how many people lost their jobs in Poland. How can we adopt laws when the government does not provide the simplest, basic information? Minister! We must work within the committee unless you leave and tell us how many people lost their jobs in Poland, how many people registered as unemployed. How can you debate the economic consequences when you don't provide basic information? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, as a formal request has been made... Minister... If I understand correctly, you will withdraw your formal motion if the Minister answers anything else. Am I supposed to understand that? I didn't file a motion, we filed an objection. I see. So there's an objection to moving on to second reading immediately. In that case, I will order a 10-minute recess - I will announce it in a moment - so that all Members can return to their seats if they are not there. Mr. President, 10 minutes... Ladies and gentlemen - I would like to address all your Members in this Chamber, including in the halls in the area of the Parliament's buildings, and those who are connected to us remotely - I am announcing a 10-minute break. Please, after this break, we will proceed to the vote because a formal proposal has been tabled so as not to proceed immediately to the second reading. We will vote on this proposal. We will be voting on this proposal in 10 minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 28 hours 15 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. In the discussion, requests were made for accession to the second reading of the draft laws contained in prints 299, 299-A, 301, 301-A and 302 and to refer these draft laws to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Health. I will put to the vote the proposal to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft laws. Its rejection will refer these draft laws to the committee. And one more point to your Members in the plenary room. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen in the plenary room, that if one of you votes both with the voting system in the Chamber and with the help of the tablet in the remote vote, an important vote is given in the voting system in the Chamber, so if someone tries to vote and... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I am merely informing your Members. Mrs. Mirror works at KPRM. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It was about Mrs. Mirror, not about you. Mr. President, I'm transmitting the information. I'm asking you to listen to her. But really in KPRM. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In the back, in the cafe. I will therefore put to the vote the proposal to proceed immediately to the second reading of all three draft laws. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft laws contained in prints 299, 299-A, 301, 301-A and 302 will press the button. It's going to take a little longer, just like the last time, because there's a signal coming in with a minute delay. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] May I ask your Members to leave such comments to themselves? Please, sir, a little serious, yes. A little serious, sir. But, Marshal, we're serious. I completely agree with you, Madame. Let's be serious. But we are. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal, the Members report that they have problems. That's where the IT guys are. If there's a problem, please report it to the IT team. They'll help. Which room? 412. It's already been checked. Let's wait a minute, Marshal. Gowin's doing an interview. And who is this, Marshal? Does he have a right to come in? Or maybe he's sick. Member, perhaps I am sick because I feel very bad already. Ladies and gentlemen, please be serious, okay? You're welcome, really. Your Marshal, this is the Sejm. Who was that? We'll wait a moment for the results of the vote. Prime Minister, who was that? Your marshal, you are so meticulous. Why not now? Your marshal hasn't read who's holding back. I've read it, my fellow Member. You weren't listening. I can hear exactly what you're saying, my fellow Member. It's a shame to react to what you're saying, really. There's been a violation of the rules. Someone walked into a seym hall with a government entrance. Let's just be glad he wasn't armed. 433 Members voted. 234 was for, 197 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the proposal and therefore agreed to join the second reading of these draft laws without delay. We proceed to the second reading of the bill's drafts. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of these draft laws? Please, Mr Boris Budka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. This performance, like we said yesterday, is five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an express pace of work. There is no time to discuss all the amendments we will make. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As promised, over the past few weeks we have consulted with you, entrepreneurs, employees, health professionals, with you, who are helping Poles every day and who are struggling with the problems of Coronavirus, you also have a great fear for your future, for the future of your families. Prime Minister... Therefore, we make dozens of amendments that will make this hole, cardboard shield of crisis can actually become (the Bell) a tool that will protect you. Dear Prime Minister, This is a test for you... Nobody's listening. ...this is a test for your credibility. You've been failing one test for a long time. Without a state of emergency, you're not giving those hundreds of thousands of people the opportunity to claim compensation. [[Applause]] who are affected by your decisions on a daily basis. In our amendments we guarantee that ZUS contributions will be waived without exception for all entrepreneurs who are affected by the coronavirus, the consequences of this epidemic, but also for employees of all industries regardless of the size of the employer, the scale of the business activity and the type of activity. We guarantee minimum salaries from the state budget. You promised a rational budget. Today is a test for you. You said there was no deficit. Today is the time to help people no matter what employers they work with. The undertaking's statement is intended to give rise to the granting of aid. Start trusting Polish entrepreneurs. Today you're dealing with more bank accounts, today you're running more administrative executions. It's time to say stop. The undertaking's statement is intended to give rise to this aid. Quick, 3-day VAT refund. Employers need this money to pay their wages. [[Applause]] You're holding them on the Treasury accounts. 20 billion for health care. Contacts. From European money Let's use this for those who fight the coronavirus every day, personal protective equipment, hospital equipment. 20 billion PLN for health care. You gave 2 billion on TVP, 20 billion we want to give for health service. [[Applause]] The welfare allowance for you, dear parents, who from Monday will be again with your children, because they will not go to schools, kindergartens and nursery schools, but also for those whose children are over 8 years old. What are you gonna do? What are you supposed to do if your children aren't taken care of? What are you supposed to do if you're left with no means to live? We guarantee our amendment to help you. Flexible working time is essential to react quickly to changing conditions. Lower rents for both catering and commercial premises, because there simply cannot be an economic activity. Bank guarantees for all companies without exception, without division into industries, without a category of better and worse sort. And finally, fast revolving loans. It is very important to be able to react very quickly. These dozens of amendments we would like to discuss in detail, we would like to show you what specific solutions we present, but unfortunately this mode of work has been introduced, ladies and gentlemen. Today you are either in your homes or in your workplaces, and you expect a solid job from us parliamentarians. Meanwhile, there is no committee work, there is no substantive work on what we are reporting. This is a dozen pages of good corrections. I thank you all, all of you, who have made these demands. Thank you both the lady from the grocery store who said that income can't be a category that will differentiate entrepreneurs because she has a large income, but she will have a loss. Thank you for your relationship with the employers. Thank you, ordinary people who fear for your future. We have taken your amendments into account because you are the most important today. And once again, I stress: this is a test for social solidarity, but this is also a test for whether we will finally be a community or whether the government will finally stop dividing into better and worse sort. Today we say, "I'm checking." Today, Prime Minister, we say: I am checking, but, my dears, the Prime Minister is not here, the Prime Minister has left. Why? Mr President, it is 4 minutes late, so go ahead. Because he doesn't even want to hear what we're talking about today. And this is what this dialogue, the community, is about, what the government has provided. Ladies and gentlemen! These corrections are for you because we're here for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u52	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Parliamentary Club Left. Ladies and gentlemen, time was almost twice as high, so... No. Yeah, yeah. Your marshal, the clock is too early... Your marshal turned off my clock after a minute. Mr President, this is a barren discussion at the moment. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every day we receive hundreds of messages from Polish workers about how their rights are being violated, how their health is at risk, how people lose their means of life every day. One story repeats often. In the face of a virus threat, the boss puts a man with a thermometer in front of the gate, and this man measures the temperature: once on his forehead, once on his nose, once on his hand, once on his jacket. If there's too many people, it doesn't measure at all. Why am I talking about this? Because an anti-crisis shield, these government actions remind me of this man with a thermometer. Instead of real helping, the government pretends to be doing something. Prime Minister! This is not the time to pretend. There's an economic crisis the world hasn't seen. A large part of our economy, a large part of the world's economy, must stand, because the health and life of our loved ones depend on it. Either you will stand up to the task and you will act courageously, or we will not get out of this crisis easily. The government lacked courage. Instead of helping workers, unemployed, small entrepreneurs, Mateusz Morawiecki offers radical wage cuts, longer working time and very modest benefits. It's an economic suicide. Poles must have money in their pockets to buy goods and services. Poles can't just stay with debts, because then we won't get out of this recession for years. The wage reduction will only shoot a spiral of recession. These solutions proposed by the government will only shoot a spiral of recession. The anti-crisis shield does not protect employees, and contrary to Minister Emilewicz's words, trade unions are of the same opinion. Prime Minister! You didn't want to liquidate and you didn't close the trash deal. Today, millions of people in trash cans lose their livelihoods every day. Instead of real support, they get one-time help. It's a joke. Every employee and every employee, regardless of the nature of the contract, must have a guaranteed income, minimum wage or more. This is what the Left demands. Along with the crisis, high unemployment will return. Meanwhile, the Polish unemployment support system has long been a joke. Very modest, insufficient benefits, which only go to a handful of people. And what does the government offer the unemployed, the present and the future? Nothing. Instead of strengthening the Labour Fund, by means of these laws, the government robs him. Don't swear to reality. Large-scale unemployment is already knocking on our door. The choice is simple: either a real unemployment support system or a temporary income guaranteed for all. This is no time for cowardly half-measures. The government must support Polish companies - it is obvious - in order to protect Polish jobs, but this aid must be true. These solutions, which you have proposed, will not save jobs in Poland. Like Denmark, the Left proposes 75% State aid, but under two conditions: no redundancies and no reductions in remuneration. We put specific Danish solutions on the table. We heard from Minister Emilevich that he would not introduce them. Minister! Poland cannot afford the mass bankruptcy of Polish companies. Poland cannot afford mass unemployment. Poland cannot, first of all, afford a radical drop in Poles' income. We heard the government didn't have any money, but the minister found 70 billion for the banks somehow. There's no money for the unemployed, there's no money for the employees, but there are for the banks. Mr. President Duda asked the banks to help people somehow. What did the banks do? They've cut back on the loan, so that the payments are bigger, and the banks will still make money. What's the situation anyway? The President of the Republic of Poland is asking the banks for mercy. Who's really in charge here? For banks, Prime Minister Morawiecki has 70 billion zlotys, and for health protection in these laws there are 7 billion. The banks are ten times more important to the Prime Minister than health workers for the current government. Banks are more important than those who are really fighting the coronavirus today. For doctors, for nurses in these laws, there is only coercion and more work. Thankfully, the Left managed to remove the most outrageous record from this bill, so that the state could force doctors to work quite endlessly. Medical personnel really don't need any more thanks, they don't need any special resolutions in which the Sejm honors them. Medical staff need decent pay, decent working conditions (Bingle) and health care that works. This shield can still be saved. We make dozens of amendments that will secure employees, unemployed, small businesses, help doctors and nurses. We extend our hand and put concrete solutions on the table, but we want to be clear: if these amendments are not accepted, the coalition club left will vote against. The Left will not agree to shift the cost of the crisis to workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u54	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a lot of comments on this bill, too. We've already reported some at first reading. I'll start with the most important things. Firstly, life and health, because there is nothing more important than protecting life, health, support for all health professionals. Thank you for these amendments, which have already been discussed, on better pay for workers, those who are on the front line today. There are also solutions needed for Polish companies, which could support the production of protective equipment, masks, but not only. Today there are many clothing companies that have stopped production because they have no market. They are willing to take up and switch their production to medical equipment for hospitals, including social services or uniforms, only need to include the Material Reserve Agency to provide a guarantee and secure the collection of all that Polish clothing companies will produce, not only clothing, but also various types of equipment that can be used to protect today. It's a good thing there's a shipment from China, but there should be security here. Here's another thing. Without liquidity, we cannot save Polish companies. It's about a proposal made by Marshal Tyszka regarding a liquidity fund, a fund that will be an open credit line of enormous size, because it has to be. It must be run in BGK as soon as possible. This can't be a $5,000 loan. from the Labour Fund. It's a joke, unfortunately, it's impossible to say otherwise. From the Labour Fund it should be at least 50,000. - such amendments are tabled - and in the case of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, a simple, clear mechanism for providing liquidity support. Companies that lose their liquidity are about to fall, and all employees will be fired. Then even the best social benefits will not help them, because they will not replace jobs. We need to realise that today the investment for the company is an investment for the business operator, but also for the employee. Here I ask the Left for this further understanding, because it is simply necessary. It is a pity that you did not have a genuine dialogue with the unions and employers within the Social Dialogue Council. This is a statutory body that should function in this way. The President is a patron, so I think he would have done a lot better if he had taken care of the dialogue between workers and trade unionists and the government, and he didn't have a business visit at that time. Further issues, very substantive, concerning - once again - voluntary ZUS, exemptions from CIT, from PIT. There is no other way to do this today than to put off all public tributes and not to charge them. If we do not do so, then in October, in November these companies simply will not be able to apply for any public tributes anymore. If the investment is to return, it must be really serious. I'm once again asking for farmers. At the Cabinet Council meeting in the first version of the anti-crisis package - it was also for the sake of clarity for those who are watching us - there was not a word, my dear, about farmers, about farms, about the agri-food industry. There was nothing about it. It was only after our interventions that this appeared, for which I thank you, because already some of our demands have been taken into account. I hope that farmers in quarantine will have the right to a minimum wage. The support of Polish crafts is very important. These are companies, these are traditional workshops that kept the Polish economy always, in the most difficult times. Now they can do it, but young workers in micro-enterprises cannot be included in all other employees on the same terms. In this way we will expand the circle of people who are entitled to pay for them by the State of ZUS, and more companies will benefit from it. Entrepreneurs called us - we got thousands of emails - employees called us. Thank you for all your requests. We present them in our amendments. They concern and social benefits, and additional child care benefits, additional support for all those who are going to work, and someone has to stay home and parents have to share these responsibilities. There can't be a limit of eight years, because what's different about taking care of an eight-year-old or a nine-year-old? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 12 years, 15 years - these are the limits that should be. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There must now be a serious debate on these amendments. Solidarity is a two-way principle. Show that you are in solidarity, accept a significant part of these amendments. Only then can we save the Polish economy. Support the local authorities. Here's a whole package of solutions for local governments. Local governments are unable to fulfil their tasks today because they do not have income on many issues. If the government doesn't compensate them for the rent they're gonna cancel, the real estate tax that they're gonna cancel or the agricultural tax, the local government won't stand it. All investments will be made. We also need to consider the next movement in the years to come. Do we need the Central Communication Port today? Do we need any giant shopping today, like the F-35? Is this a key issue for the coming years today, or is investment in economic security a fundamental issue today? Without jobs, without our safety, everything else is going to go further. These are also challenges concerning not only the 2020 budget, but further budgets. We hope that this bill will be amended several times. There should be further proposals next week. We especially hope for an open, high credit line, liquidity fund in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. He must rise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u56	Thank you very much. And remotely, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm listening to this stream of demagogy that's pouring here, especially from the Left or the Left and the PiS. I wonder why there's no epidemic every month. We could make great laws to help industry, people work. Why wait for the epidemic? You can do it right away. Why aren't we doing this? Because no one asks how much it's gonna cost. Who's gonna pay for all this? A simple, gray man will pay 38 million consumers because the left cares about the people of work and the right cares for the consumers. The citizen is to consume, not to produce. In fact, we should vote against this bill because it still contains, as Mr Krzysztof Bosak rightly pointed out, dangerous things, but because it also contains a few useful things, we will abstain. And in conclusion, High Izbo, I decided not to shave until the coronavirus left the Polish lands. I hope they don't bury me in a grave with a long, gray beard to cover my bow tie. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u58	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Wheel of the Confederation of Parliament. First, Mr. Michael Urbaniak. I had another call. It doesn't matter. Well, in that case, Mr Michał Urbaniak. How much more time is there? How much time do we have left? Two minutes left, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u59	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This anti-crisis shield, it actually takes into account a number of changes, it actually takes into account positive things, it actually takes into account negative things. It's worth leaning over. The very important thing to look at is the fact that an anti-crisis shield will support employers, including workers, out of its very limited government resources. Why is it in the project that we will also support those foreign big corporations that are based not only outside the European Union, I apologize, not only outside Poland but also outside the European Union? Let these corporations report to their governments. We will take care of the Polish entrepreneur today and thus the Polish employee. Let us also remember that there is another catch in this new law, namely extension, automatic extension of work permits for foreigners. What will happen when the economy really stands and Poles start losing their jobs and foreigners will still be able to work here? Who's gonna have the biggest problem? Our citizens. Let's take care of them first. Therefore, around the Confederacy, it submits its amendments to all three drafts. There are 39 of them in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u60	The rest of the time for Mr Dobromir Sosnier. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u61	High Izbo! It's not gonna work. It's gotta go. It is not possible to impose hundreds of pages of legislation without impunity in such conditions, in such a hurry. To fight the epidemic you have to be well prepared, you have to have thoughtful laws and procedures, and you do some great improvisation, you make hundreds of chaotic movements without order and composition. As a result, you always stumble over your own wrong shoelaces. You're just like that Alojz at the construction site who's been running around with an empty wheelbarrow all day because he didn't have time to load. We also correct one legal bubble with another legal bubble, because we don't have time to think about it calmly. During the speech on 2 March I said that the unforeseen effects of this specialty will soon be revealed. And they reveal themselves. We have to correct these laws today. Instead of pouring ash on his head, the Minister has announced with such clear pride that we will give up forced hospitalization, which means we are now retreating from the bad rules that we have just passed. The opposition, which previously recklessly tapped a number of amendments adopted in its favour, only after two weeks realized that the main reason for adopting this law was In fact, the introduction of a state of emergency without delaying elections. And now she's moaning, sobbing, appealing, but you just don't do things like that. You mustn't tap and crawl in the dark with some kind of makeover created by the government on your knees. Second thing. On 2 March, I announced what would end with the introduction of maximum prices. It's about the threats to the seizures that were in that specialty. I said the effect would just run out of facials. When it comes down to it, there's just nothing here. Of course, that's what happened. A week later, the government realized that all of this was fleeing abroad and trying to close the borders quickly and stop the goods. It was obviously too late. That's what it's like when someone wants to spend free time confiscating someone's work. So what did you do best, who was right then? I'm expecting a round of applause right now. I think they belong to a successful prophecy, don't they? [[The bell, the applause.]] What were you trying to use these regulations for in the meantime? When the masks are dramatically missing, you are preparing some geszoft, simply trying to guarantee a monopoly of a friendly company and intervening on foreign services to block private shopping of Poles. What have you learned from this? That now what has not worked out on a small scale will be introduced on a large scale: that is, now the Minister will have the opportunity to regulate not only the price of masks and gloves, but also e.g. food. Any regulation, any regulation, regulated prices is an invitation of poverty to the table. What have you learned? You've learned nothing from it. Thank you, sir. I'm running out of time. We will abstain from voting because we are unable to tap such a legal bubble quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u62	Thank you, sir. The list of Members voted on was... Excuse me, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that this should go down and it should at least be explained, corrected by one basic thing which results from this debate. It is undoubtedly - I do not want to use the word: a lie - the result of the lack, I understand, of the ability to read legal acts, to say that these laws are supposed to guarantee just a few billion PLN on the part of whether it's a budget, whether it's a public finance sector at all, because let's look at it. Only in these laws, on which we proceed, is it at least, however to count, 67 billion PLN. It's from the public finance sector itself. So that's the result of the updated OSRs. If you add the fourth bill, already filed and yet not accepted, if you add the other cases, that's the cost already at least, it seems, about 90 billion PLN. So let us be aware of this and please do not mislead the public. That's the first thing. The second point is that on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to make a number of amendments to help. I'll talk about the most important of them. The most important thing in this package is that for self-employed people, for those engaged in one-man business... We're counting on revenue in February first so we can catch a ZUS release. But if - this is a clarification - the revenue will fall below three national averages only in March or April, then, in the case of these 3 months, you will be able to apply for this exemption from the Social Security Office. So that, in order for there to be no doubt, such a provision is introduced. There are a number of things that clarify the situation, so that I think these are good amendments. I will ask the High House to accept them. I think that when it comes to some things, I will also recommend to my club the support of some of the opposition amendments, because there are also good ideas. I'm just gonna get back to you at the end... For incomprehensible reasons, some opposition representatives were very upset about some metaphor used in my speech at first reading. President Kosiniak was shaking. Corrigendum. I understand that this is an aversion to perhaps the story you restricted in schools when you were, but you could be given a book with speeches or a Cicero or a Reagan, so you'd see that in each one of them it appears. But after you thought that the Trasimine Lake or the Ticinus River were in Africa, I think it would be better to have a school geography atlas. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Correct, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u64	Thank you very much. Okay, corrigendum. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Correction of your misunderstood speech, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u65	I was kind to the Prime Minister so you wouldn't play reconnaissance groups, because this is a time of war with the coronavirus. You have a job as Minister, Head of the Permanent Committee, so do it. And we'd love to discuss history, but this isn't the time. Today is the most important thing that we should have in common. I urge solidarity. We really need two-way solidarity between the rulers and the opposition. Be kind to each other. That's what I wish you. Thank you so much for that promise. I will gladly accept the books you promised me. I hope this isn't going to be like some of your election promises, even if it's tax-free and stuff. Mr. President, I'm sorry. Corrigendum. Corrigendum, Mr. President. I'm simple, but if I hand over a little kindness to the Minister, it'll never hurt. We miss it a lot. It also takes a smile in all of this so that we can overcome the virus, not today to deal with historical debates. I encourage you to do so, Minister. I think it's your responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u66	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister for Development, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of what you're saying can only be in two blocks... There have been a lot of demands here, above all Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, on the burdens that local governments must bear in relation to the coronavirus. Yes. As we said at the beginning, there is no person today, there is no body today, there is no entity today, there is no company that does not have to face these consequences. Yeah, we're aware of that. In these solutions we have prepared, we have touched on - a little - issues related to the proper functioning of the local government, so that the local authorities are not paralyzed due to restrictions. But already today, as I said, the Ministry of Home Affairs with our little cooperation in talks with representatives of the Polish Towns Association, the metropolitan union, is also preparing a package that will help facilitate the operation of local government in this difficult time, the time of the decline in revenue due to the fact that in general the revenue from all taxes in Poland will be significantly reduced in the coming months. So that we hope to cooperate with these subsequent solutions. I will refer to the Left's demands, which are to be a simple translation of the Danish solutions. As I mentioned earlier, we are proposing other solutions - as far as we can and as possible, and as we are in today's situation. If this is required by the development of the situation, we will probably be ready to expand this package. But today we appeal to you: let us accept these solutions, because they are needed by businesses and workers as soon as possible, so that this 1st of April can certainly enter the jobs that have been maintained. Is this bill reckless? I address Mr Sosnier. Mr President, please tell me which economists in the world are prepared for the crises to come. We're always perfectly prepared for those that have ended. This bill is not a legislative masterpiece, it's true. But its aim was not to create a legal masterpiece, but to provide real solutions as soon as possible. And in this haste, including collecting many cases that came to us from entrepreneurs, we probably did not write an excellent legislative bill, but I am convinced that we have prepared good regulations that will save jobs that will save Polish companies. Yeah, maybe sometimes we make mistakes, and we're ready to admit them. Yes, we thanked those who pointed out that the social security form has 11 pages, then 4 pages, when we ask you to postpone social security contributions. To answer this question: in 1 day we simplified this form. This required contact with the European Commission, changing the de minimis aid scheme and then short IT work - within one weekend. From Monday this form has less than 1 page, is a really simple statement. I therefore appeal to you. It's not populism, it's realism. That's our bill. And so are you. You said yes, we're at war with the coronavirus. I'd like us to stand side by side in this war, not against each other. Let's fight the virus, not fight each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. Ad vocem. May I? No, sir. The discussion is closed. But I was called. No, sir, it was not just a reference to you, it was to all of you who spoke. It was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to consider these three draft laws without referring amendments to the committees and proposals submitted to these draft laws. Since, at second reading, amendments were tabled to the bill - these amendments are, please, 257 - I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading of the draft law after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I declare the adjournment, ladies and gentlemen, in session by noon. 21, but it may turn out that with as many amendments as almost 260 we can meet much later. You'll be informed by texting then. At this point, I'm announcing a time-out. 21, with the possibility of moving her by another hour or two hours. We'll keep you posted. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 25 hours 23 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a formal request from the Civic Coalition was made to adjourn the sitting and we will therefore vote on this formal proposal. We're pulling out. It was reported yesterday, a little late for the vote. But we're adjourned, so we'll be sitting till morning. Good. The motion has been withdrawn. We continue to consider item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws on the health system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that all the amendments voted together are based on the conclusions of the notifiers. We proceed with the examination of amendments 1, 2, 4, 6 to 8, 10 to 14, 21, 23, 27 and 28. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? And who's holding back? Now, of course, we'll wait, because you know we have to wait longer. I'll have the results. 429 Members voted. 82 - for, 224 - against, withered 123. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the third amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 171 - for, 224 - against, 37 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 5th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 159 - for, 236 - against, 39 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the ninth amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. I'm gonna read it slower because that's where the signal really goes a little bit later. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 162 - for, 240 - against, 40 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 15th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 313 - for, 12 - against, 124 abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the review of amendments 16, 24, 25, 29, 31 and 33. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 265 - for, no one was against, 183 abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We move on to the 17th and 32nd amendments. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 17 and 32 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 389 for, 7 against, holding 53. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. Let's move on to the 18th amendment. Extremely high attendance. Never better. Never better, ladies and gentlemen. I can't remember when he was so... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... I will read slower because Members signal to read slower, so I read slower. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 173 - for, against - 234, 44 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of amendments 19 and 20. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 19 and 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 168 was for, 233 against, 52 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 22nd amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 93 - for, 234 - against, with 128 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 26th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 318 - for, 13 - against, abstained 124. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 30th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 170 - for, against - 242, 41 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're going to vote on the whole thing. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in prints 301 and 301-A, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 418 - for, 16 - against, 19 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws on the health system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on the system of development institutions. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that all the total votes on the amendments are based on the conclusions of the notifiers. First, we will consider amendments 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 17 as moving forward. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 1, 7, 10, 14, 15, 16, 18 to 21. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 162 - for, 237 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the examination of amendments 1, 7, 10, 16 and 19. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will render amendments 14, 15, 18, 20 and 21. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 7, 10, 16 and 19 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 165 - for, 232 - against, 42 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the second amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 162 - for, 249 - against, with 41 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the third amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 178 - in favour of - 231, 42 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of amendments 14, 15, 20 and 21. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 18th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 14, 15, 20 and 21 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 85 - for, 240 - against, 126 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 18th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 185 - for, 229 - against, 40 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 302 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 426 - for, 3 - against, 22 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the system of development institutions. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Budget Law for 2020 (prints No 267 and 271). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u69	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is an honor to present the report of the Committee on Public Finance in print No 271 to the Senate resolution on the Budget Law. The Senate proposed 94 amendments to the 2020 budget law adopted by the Sejm. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 11 March considered the amendments of the Senate and recommended that the High House reject all amendments. High Izbo! Not as rapporteur, as this was not the subject of the Committee on Public Finance, I am asking for a joint vote on all amendments, i.e. acceptance or rejection in the joint vote of the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance, given in particular the voting procedure that is taking place today, but also bearing in mind that the circumstances which were at the time of the adoption of the budget by the Sejm, also the submission of amendments by the Senate and also during the work of the committee, are completely different circumstances which are today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u70	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. I propose to apply in this case Resolution No 4 of the Polish Sejm Bureau of 7 March 2001 on the interpretation of the article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, i.e. a joint vote on the amendments of the Senate which have been negative. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! Objection, I hear. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a joint vote... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...you do that. The Senate's amendments are not discussed. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal... Marshal, I've asked for the floor. Objection. I want to justify it. You don't have to justify it. Rules of procedure... Rules of procedure. Art. 54 (1) (a) 5a. The Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. This report shall not be discussed unless the Sejm decides otherwise. That is what we are deciding at the moment, Madam Member. [[Touchdown, applause]] Who decides? The Sejm decides otherwise. Sejm. We're just making up our minds. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting a joint vote on the amendments of the Senate that have been negative, will want to press the button. Disgraceful! You don't even have appearances. You don't even know what you're voting on. Who's against it? And Kuchciński's happy, it's like him. Finally, it's what he likes. Mr President, don't forget. Marshal, you're the one who... Because you still have something to say on this side all the time. It's quiet here. Who's holding back? This side is peaceful... 451 Members voted. 235 was for, 205 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We move on to the joint consideration of amendments 1 to 94. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 1 to 94 will want to press the button. You turned down $2 billion in health. Who's against it? I think it'll be on the record. Your speeches will certainly be in the minutes, Madam President. Thank you very much. Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. It was 228, 207 against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. This concludes the Senate resolution on the budget law for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, because the Civic Coalition club had grouped the amendments a few minutes ago and just passed them over to the Legislative Bureau... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But you, if she were honest... Can you not argue with me like that? And you? Tell me the truth. Please, Member, sit down because... Have a seat. Mr President, I am not talking about the amendments tabled, I am talking about the grouped amendments. He delivered it a few minutes ago... Legislature Bureau... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do not argue with me, Madame, please. Therefore, I am declaring a time-out. 2. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 1 min 10 h 3 min 07]] With this election, Marshal, I'll tell you, no mode. I don't know what that is. You know what code mode is. The Marshal of the Sejm is guarding the seriousness, the rules, the constitution. Is this code mode, Marshal? You're lucky it's not a changed constitution. You're kidding me. Marshal, don't even appeal to me not to speak. I'm gonna be here telling you everything by the hour tonight. 5 a.m. Or until the hour. 6. That this is just an absolute scandal. What are you laughing at? I'm not here with you. [[I'm not talking to you.]] Minister, you'll come to your senses. I would like to ask Members of the Law and Justice for peace of mind. Okay? I ask you to remain calm. You're gonna be in front of the State Court, really. That's breaking the constitution, that's breaking the rules, that's breaking the law. How can you do that? Six months before the election, the code doesn't change. Because we're in an election campaign. It's an election. You're supposed to be helping people, you're supposed to be helping them pass, and you're doing an election campaign at an hour. Three o'clock in the morning. Smart guys. And you're ashamed of Poles, which is why you do it at an hour. Three in the morning... I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and some other laws. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that all the amendments voted together are based on the conclusions of the notifiers. With a formal request from Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion... Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk. Yes, sir. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I declare an application for a break and ask that the Convention of Seniors be convened, which is necessary for the last moment that has been implemented by the States. The amendment concerning the electoral code, an attempt to amend the electoral code for a few months, less than 6 months before the election date is incompatible with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, but above all it is a shameful attempt to use the debate on anti-crisis laws, on the epidemic to tamper with the electoral code, to deceive Poles and Poles. We are gathered here - all Members, all parliamentarians - to ensure health, safety, jobs and safety... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. ...conditions for survival of this crisis... Thank you, Member. ...not to allow you to tamper with the electoral code.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u72	A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It was up to you, Member, to have a grudge. Yesterday they played you. We've brought in the fuses. Yeah, the fuses. Safes. After all, some Members voted against our amendment. Kids, kids. Explain to the Poles that you contributed to this. Your Marshal, how can you let this happen? Shame. It's unconstitutional. You're not saying anything. It's a little embarrassing, isn't it? It's a total shame. Your Marshal... 428 Members voted. For - 188, 228 - against, 12 stopped. The request for a break hasn't gone through. The second proposal, Mr Braun, is the same, concerns the same: breaks and convening the Senior Convention. So I'm not gonna give up... And convening the Senior Convention. Same thing, same thing about the first proposal. In connection with an illegal investigation. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will not put this proposal to the vote. In connection with an illegal investigation, Your Marshal. You're trying to illegally process here. We proceed with the examination of amendments 1, 3, 5, 12, 14, 15, 21 to 24, 26, 50, 54, 57, 67, 72, 73, 78, 99, 102, 105 to 107, 118, 132. To 136th, 159th to 163th, 165, 166th, 169th to 172, 176th and 178th. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 70 - for, 236 - against, 122 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the examination of amendments 2, 89, 158 and 198. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 151 - for, 230 - against, abstained 51. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the fourth amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? And anyway, we're changing the electoral code, and even the word won't fall: the electoral code. Change the electoral code and the word: The electoral code will not fall during the session. But have you read these changes or not? [[I have read these changes, but my question is not whether I have read these changes, but my question is: Can we change the electoral code in the Seym without saying the words: The electoral code? That's my question. May I? It's called, Mr. President Kaczyński: no mode at all. In that term of office, there was talk without any mode, and now there is the adoption of laws without any mode. You're developing it creatively. You know what, I have a proposition. As if you changed the next act so that the Polish People's Republic of Poland would be named. 'Cause that's where it's going. What do you say?]] Let him answer... I've just finished, I'm waiting for an answer. But it's... Mr President, I urge you to do so. Then reprimand me. I urge you, sir. I draw your attention, sir. Just be aware that I am the elected Member of the Sejm... Mr, here in this Chamber, there are only Members. And you guys are making this a Sejm circus. Here they sit, sir, all Members themselves and I would very much like to treat each Member with respect. I'm asking you if you can change the code in the Seym... You are the Marshal of the Sejm, the second person in the country. We are, sir, in the middle of... I'm asking you if you can change the electoral code without saying the word "election code" in the Sejm. Don't yell at me, sir. That's what I'm telling you to hear, because when I talk to you quieter, you don't hear it. I can hear you, sir. I would like to inform you that we are in the middle of a vote, sir. And I'm telling you that we're changing the electoral code and the words, the electoral code is gone. Why do you allow this? People don't know what's changing, you know. You can't work in the Seym like that. Do you really think this is a free country, a normal democratic country, what you've brought here? You can't call it that. Don't you dare refer to the solidarity? Mr President, I find that you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. I'm used to it. I inform you, Mr Sławomir Nitras, that you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. No, ma'am, you're violating the seriousness of the Sejm. You are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. If you don't calm down, I'm gonna ask you to leave the O.R. or I'm gonna rule you out. I'm calm. You can't rule me out. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course I can rule you out in accordance with the rules of procedure, so I'm asking you to hold back your emotions and behave calmly in the courtroom, and obey the orders of the Marshal of the Sejm. Please, sir. This is one of your duties. Please, sir. You must do your duty, too. Mr President, we are in the middle of a vote, not a discussion, a debate. You'll want to discuss it with me when you're done. I'd like to... Not after it's over. And right now, we're in the middle of a vote, so I'm asking you to behave in this courtroom. That's the kind of words you're gonna say to me. Let's not break the constitution. You may have different opinions, but please behave in a worthy manner. Thank you. Shame. It's just a shame. Shame, not shame. There was a church. 440 Members voted. 159 for, against - 231, 50 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of amendments 6, 188 and 189. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 436. 162 - for, 229 - against, withered 45. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 7th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 160 for, 231 against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of amendments 8, 42, 43., 119, 120 and 197. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 156 - for, 230 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the examination of amendments 8a, 9, 16, 17, 18, 20, 28, 45, 46, 52, 55, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 80, 81, 83, 90, 101, 103, 108, 110, 111, 113, 141, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 150, 152, 153, 156, 167, 173, 174, 179, 183 and 185. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 167 for, 231 against, with 47 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We move on to the examination of amendments 10 and 13. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 10 and 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 164 - for, 232 - against, 52 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the examination of amendments 11, 31, 34., 37., 38., 68, 84, 181 and 184. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 445 Members voted. For - 169, against - 230, with 46 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the examination of amendments 19, 29, 30, 32, 33, 41, 47, 51, 53, 56, 60, 75, 76, 77, 79, 87, 88, 112, 137, 138, 139, 168, 190 and 191. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 444. 158 - for, 231 - against, 55 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 25th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 25 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 159 - for, 226 - against, 53 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of amendments 27, 39, 69, 71, 82, 98, 154, 164, 182, 192 to 196. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 155 - for, against - 224, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are going to consider amendments 35, 96, 100, 123, 129, 177, 180 and 200. We will vote on these amendments together. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 36 and 124 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Formal conclusion. Formal conclusion, Marshal. Please change your voting login. There's no such conclusion. With a reason. You have a motion in writing... I'm asking you to change my vote by changing my login at this time because maybe someone fell asleep over the tablet. Please check the identity of the voters and quorum after verification of the identity. Send it out on the phone... and check it out... We'll proceed with the vote. But put a formal motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. There's a formal motion, Your Marshal, to change the vote. Formal conclusion. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] What is the basis for the presumption, Your Marshal, that the tablets are handled at this time by Members assigned to these tablets? Send out the new... 439 Members voted. 222 was in favor, against - 214, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendment 36. has become unobtrusive. We move on to the examination of amendments 40 and 151. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 40 and 151 will press the button. It's not working. It's working now. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Here information in the meantime to your Members. Look at your scripts. There was a mistake, and now we will vote on Amendment 44. - after that amendment that... The results will be up in a minute and we'll be voting on Amendment 44, and then it's the same. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, there isn't. I said there was a mistake in the script, and that's why it didn't turn up. Which is why I should warn you, in a moment... And I'll tell you what's going on. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'll read it. We'll just finish this vote. 436 Members voted. 313 was for, 5 against, 118 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We will now proceed with the vote on Amendment 44. This is the amendment of the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 14 after the proposed Article. 15jc add article. 15jd as follows: Article. 15jd. In the Act of 11 March 2004 on tax on goods and services (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2018 poz. 2174, as amended.) Article 4 is replaced by the following: 146a-146e. We proceed with the vote on this amendment, which I had just read. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 44 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 157 for, 227 against, 54 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 48th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 48 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Your marshal, the MPs report... Everything's working. Members either press too late... It's working, sir. It's working. It works because we have an IT service here that checks and works. If someone doesn't do something individually, there are phones. Your Marshal... 439 Members voted. 157 - for, 228 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 49th amendment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'll be slower, sir, reading. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, we'll do the rehearsal now. I see the results, sir, really. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 49 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 162 - for, 230 - against, with 51. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 70th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 70 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. 441 Members voted. 78 - for, 232 - against, 131 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the 74th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 74 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted... No, I'm sorry. 437 Members voted. 73 - for, 230 - against, suspended 134. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of amendments 85 and 94. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering Amendment 82. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 82 will want to press the button. We don't have that adjustment. Wait a minute, we're gonna explain, 'cause maybe that card wasn't attached at the Legal Office. We'll see about that. So we don't pass the wrong vote. No, no, I certainly will not allow you to vote the amendment badly. Two minutes of technical break so we can check this card. Wait a minute. I got it, ladies and gentlemen. So I read well, I'm fine, and here in the chart was a mistake. So we don't get it wrong, I'll read it again, take a look. We're going back to that vote again. We move on to the 74th amendment. Do you have it? Yeah, okay. We'll proceed with the vote. But you see the marshal how careful we are? Yeah, well, I'm very happy for you. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... We voted her. Oh, okay, good. Thank you very much. I'm glad we're so vigilant, we're watching. We proceed with the examination of amendments 85 and 94. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 85th and 94th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 165 - for, against - 229, 45 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 86th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 86, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 156 for, 227 against, 54 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 91st amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 91, please press the button. Who's against it? And when will there be a re-vote if there are so many mistakes? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 155 for, 227 against, 54 abstentions. The amendment didn't go through. Let's move on to the 92th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 92 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Everyone's protesting they're in trouble. 438 Members voted. 155 - for, 229 - against, abstained 54. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are now going to consider amendments 93, 95 and 126. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 93, 95 and 126 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 163 - for, 229 - against, 46 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We're going to consider amendments 97, 104, 114 to 117 and 121. We will vote on these amendments together. The adoption of these amendments will render the amendments 122 to 124 redundant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 163 for, 230 against, 46 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 109th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 109 will want to press the button. It's not working. It's working, my fellow Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I see. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 437 Members voted. For - 155, against - 227, holding 55. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 122nd amendment. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 123 and 124 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 122 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 155, against - 228, the 51. The amendment was rejected. Amendment 124 has become pointless. We move on to the examination of amendments 125, 127, 128, 130 and 131. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? In the voting block, we adopted this solution a little earlier. 35th and the next. Actually, it's 123. 436 Members voted. For - 165, against - 227, with 44 abstentions. The amendments were rejected. Let's move on to the 140th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 140 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, you do not have a voice right now. I am so sorry, sir. You don't give me a voice... You're welcome, sir. With my vote, it would be the same as one of the messengers. She sent a voice, and came against it. Mr... He's got pictures. We saw it, yeah. These pictures aren't worth much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course. 439 Members voted. For - 160, against - 227, 52 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 142th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 142 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal... You're overreacting in these late-night conversations. Please calm down and keep quiet. I'm really very... Mr President, for the second time, I would point out to you that you are violating the dignity of the Sejm. This is a second warning. The third is disfellowshipping. 440 Members voted. For - 160, against - 227, holding 53. The amendment was rejected. Let's move on to the 149th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 149 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 159, against - 230, halted 53. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 155th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 155 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 158, against - 229, holding 53. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 157th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 157 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. In favour of 169 against 226 and 45 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 175th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 175 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For - 156, against - 228, holding 54. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 186th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 186 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 165, against - 231, the 44. The amendment was rejected. Let's move on to the 187th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 187 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 169, against - 232, with 42 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 199th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 199 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 158, against - 232, holding 53. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 201th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 201 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 158, against - 230, holding 55. The Sejm rejected the amendment. That concludes the vote on the amendments. Now we have three applications submitted before the vote as a whole. Mr Boris Budka. Three minutes. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are in a special moment, we are after the night vote, but you have not taken advantage of the many advice and good amendments that we have tabled. I am glad that you accepted our proposal to unconditionally release from the CSO for 3 months, while you have recently insisted that this assistance is not needed. I am also glad that you have finally listened to our voice and the benefits will be extended for those who look after the children. But unfortunately, you have divided Poles once again. You didn't have the guts to save jobs. You didn't have the guts to get parents of disabled children to get benefits. You lacked the courage not to divide entrepreneurs into better and worse. Finally, you lacked the courage to stand up and apologize to all those who would not be able to benefit from State aid. I wonder if today you'll be able to go out to this entrepreneur who won't get any help from you because you've ruled out entrepreneurs who employ more than nine people. Will you be able to explain to your employees why you didn't want to treat the same person who will lose his job tomorrow at a large company, a manufacturing company, just because you didn't accept our amendments. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately you did not agree to the fundamental thing: 20 billion PLN for Polish health service. [[Applause]] It's the money that's needed to save people's lives. You haven't made these amendments because you're not ready for dialogue, because the values you're talking about are empty to you. Cooperation, agreement, solidarity means nothing to you. For you, the most important thing is only the electoral interest, which is why you are so determined to defend yourselves against the state of the natural disaster, so you do not want to pay compensation to Poles, so you do not want Poles to be able to seek compensation when the state fails. And the Poles will not forget it. But we're a constructive opposition. We promised our constituents our help. We promised that we would fight for at least the biggest amendments they were talking about. Things didn't work out here. You have rejected many things, but today you have full responsibility for this package. You have full responsibility for every lost job. You have full responsibility for any human harm that will be done by your cowardice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish you hadn't kept your word, Marshal. I regret, Prime Minister, that you have failed to keep your word. I wish you had taken advantage of your hands, your dialogue, your agreement and your good work. I regret it, but it's only your responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u74	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr. Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. There's no envoy. He's on his way. If he comes, I'll let him speak. Ms. Agnieszka Dziemianovich-Fak, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's very late, actually very early. A lot of Poles are getting up for work right now. And I would like to thank them very much for that. For today, just like every day, despite the epidemic, going to work, to the clinic, to the hospital, but also to the store or to the post office. They will do so despite endangering their health, endangering their family's health. They're gonna do it to keep us safe, to keep us healthy, so we can feel taken care of. Thank you very much, because it is thanks to them that you, despite the crisis, continue to work despite the epidemic. It is high time that this country, which should be grateful to them today, appreciated them. Meanwhile, the Government of Law and Justice decided to use the crisis to show even more contempt instead of respect, cutting wages, weakening workers' rights. Today all employees and employees, 16 million Poles and Poles, fear for their wages. The bill provides for the possibility of reducing salaries by up to half. Does the Ministry, or does the government predict how many people will receive lower salaries? How many households will have lower incomes? Can all those people who get up to work today feel safe? Does the government plan any safeguards for the time when this job is lost? Nearly 3 million people in self-employment or civil law contracts are now in a situation without any safeguards. The epidemic crisis has clearly shown why people working on civil law contracts call these trash deals. These millions today face the risk of losing their jobs and their livelihoods. These risks do not remove your anti-crisis laws to any extent. On the contrary, they deepen it. Your proposals undermine workers' rights, do not safeguard the situation of those who lose their jobs. You rejected the Left amendment so that people working in garbage cans would gain full rights from the Labour Code. You rejected the Left amendment, which would increase unemployment benefits. You did it even though you know that about 70% business today threatens workers with redundancies. You know that after the outbreak wave, there will be a wave of unemployment, and you have done nothing to protect the people who are under that wave from drowning. I listened attentively to today's speeches by representatives of the ruling party. You have repeated the word "solidarity," "solidarity." Why is there so little solidarity between the state and its own citizens in your laws? In this crisis that we face today, we must be united, but really, we must take care of each other - one for all and all for one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With millions of workers looking into the spectrum of long-term unemployment, you are not solidarity. You want to tighten your belts, but you're afraid to tighten your belts on fat cats' stomachs. You prefer to tighten your belts on the skinniest, weakest, the hardest to claim your rights. Thank you, Member. The Left will never agree to such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u76	Thank you, Member. Here you are, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u77	Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! We are after 7 hours of voting on the amendments to the crisis shield, which unfortunately will not prove effective to the extent that Polish entrepreneurs, Polish workers expect it to do so, because it does not focus on four simple pillars that could allow it to act quickly and effectively, so it will not ease the costs of fixed costs for entrepreneurs, the US and taxes, will not give simple, rapid access to working capital, will not give quick and immediate subsidies to jobs and will not stop the entry of new taxes. The new taxes announced, such as sugar tax, are to enter, nothing changes in this matter. Instead, we will have 24 new official procedures, committees of officials, committees examining proposals, entrepreneurs writing proposals. Legal firms are already offering services to advise you, Prime Minister, on how to take advantage of these solutions that your government is currently producing, from these new 24 processes that will be launched in the administration. There is a group that will be very pleased with the shape of this shield. The Prime Minister referred to this group in his speech, in a way showing what charge he was afraid of. These are the banks. The Prime Minister comes from banks and banks are the group that is happy with the shape of the shield that the government has given her. This is for a very simple reason: unlike other countries, the shield proposed by the PiS government does not in any way affect the interests of banks. There is no solution where banks would have to share whether it was funds or even profits with businesses and ordinary citizens. The credit holiday that will be entered will be paid for. The government has not proposed anything in this regard. All instruments proposed by the government they are optimised for banks, such as the reduction of reserves, such as liquidity instruments, such as guarantees. Ordinary entrepreneurs will not be able to count on such special treatment as will be expected from colleagues in the industry, among whom the Prime Minister gained experience and functioned for years. It can be said that this is a coincidence, but it can be considered to be a consequence of some connections, some links which today reach the highest peaks of our state's authorities. It is not fair that an ordinary entrepreneur cannot count on such preferential treatment as bankers will count on. Prime Minister, this is not what Polish entrepreneurs have been waiting for.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u78	Thank you, sir. You asked for the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, today and yesterday, we were discussing fundamental issues, fundamental issues for workers, for entrepreneurs. I understand that the regulations and customs that have made the opposition less substantive in recent years refer to what we propose, and to a greater extent to different kinds of obstacles, have caused that discussion to a large extent did not refer to what is the merit of the shield. But the merit of the shield is to protect mainly Polish workers and entrepreneurs from bankruptcy. And that's why I appeal once again to follow what I said at the beginning, not just every day counts, every hour counts. Therefore, I would very much like to ask Mr. Marshal of the Senate to convene the Senate as soon as possible today, preferably not to waste an hour, because it depends on how many companies will be able to save their business, save their achievements, very often their achievements, and in the wake of how many jobs we will save. So let's just put those push-ups or these fights, these different fights that have been raining here for the last seven hours. I'm not angry, I forgive. I am not overly concerned about this, but please, all of you, let us vote for this shield as soon as possible, because the amount of discounts we have put here, the amount of direct payments to employees, to entrepreneurs is unprecedented. This shield is one of the largest GDP targets offered by all other countries compared to all other countries. You know perfectly well, because I understand that here, in this poetry or rhetoric, which here was thrown so little as without responsibility for the word, because I think that you know perfectly well and the country that you just spoke, you know very well that help for entrepreneurs, help for workers goes not into billions, not tens of billions, goes into hundreds of billions of dollars, goes into real money. You also know perfectly well that the banks were taxing the rule of law and justice, because we imposed the bank tax which has just prevented excessive credit escalation, excessive credit expansion, and so we raise PLN 4 billion annually to the budget. It is this amount of approx. PLN 4 billion, first 3.5 billion, now above 4 billion, which serves social policy, serves the development policy of the Polish state and will not be suppressed by the lies and completely false wordings that were here. I'm putting all this aside, I'm not angry with you, and I'm asking you all to vote for it, but above all, I believe that this bill will, of course, be overruled, it's very important. I ask the Senate, Mr. Marshal of the Senate, to convene a sitting as soon as possible, because once again, I stress, every hour counts. This crisis that came to us unexpectedly... There's no insurance against the meteorite, no insurance against the coronavirus in the world, and no one in the world prepared for it. Such things, such epidemics happen very, very rarely and unhappyly to us Poles also happened. Therefore, in the responsibility for the Polish state, for Polish workers I ask the High House to vote on this anti-crisis shield. I believe that if we vote on it, we will be able to save a lot of jobs, and we will also do everything we can to offer additional solutions in the next few days, which will also protect the Polish economy from this difficult time, which unfortunately is coming. We do everything we can to prevent job losses and to prevent bankruptcy. I ask the Senate to vote as soon as possible if the High House agrees to vote on the anti-crisis shield, which I firmly believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-27-sejm-08-2.u80	Thank you, Prime Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in prints 299 and 299-A, along with the amendments adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 343 was for, 73 against, 19 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 8th meeting of the Polish Sejm. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 8th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 9th sitting will be served to you and your fellow Members. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 6 min 21]]
