ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u1	Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. and consider it as item five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's an objection. Mr. Senator Martynowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm filing the counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u3	Against opposition, we are voting on my proposal. They're leaving... Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? It doesn't work for me. It doesn't work here. It's working. Service call. It's working. Please state the outcome of the vote. We haven't decided. We didn't bring it in. There was no quorum. But all in favor. There's an objection, so... Well, 44 voters... [[Voting No 2]] In the absence of a ruling, I'm announcing a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 03 to 10 minutes 31]] Please take your seats. We would like to return to the discussion of the proposal to complete the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary, against the opposition raised and the fact that I will remind you that ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 19 Rules of Procedure of the Senate of the Senator shall apply to the presence and active participation of the Senate and, that is, paragraph 3, the Senator participating in the sitting shall not be removed from the vote. You can only vote in person. We therefore proceed with the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 55 senators voted, 51 votes against, 4 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] I state that the point has been introduced. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: information from the Minister of Health on the epidemiological situation related to the spread of Coronavirus. I would like to warmly welcome our fellow senator, Minister Kraska, and the chief health inspector, Dr. Jarosław Pinkas. And right away, first of all, I would like to express my will and expectation that, in view of the majesty of the Senate and the importance of the subject that we are discussing, we will maintain the standards that are valid in the Senate: a substantive, substantive, factual discussion. First of all, I ask the applicant, Senator Małecka-Libera, for introduction. Then we'll ask the Minister or the appointed persons. Excuse me, Senator. I would like to remind you in order that at 1 p.m. there will be an adjournment for the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. How long? Probably an hour and a half, due to the fact that we will be hosting Mr Michel Barnier, the main negotiator of Brexit on the part of the European Union. I'll give it to you at the time of the recess. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The purpose of the information request is to gain reliable knowledge of the state of preparedness in the event of the outbreak of Coronavirus. The situation is serious and the pace of change is very fast. It was completely different three weeks ago when we talked about this at the committee meeting, because the outbreak was in distant China. The current situation is quite different because the place of infection, so to speak, has approximated, as we all know. The virus is mainly in Italy, but it spreads very quickly throughout Europe. Prevention and prevention are the most important in this epidemiological situation. A week ago, thousands of Poles returned to the country from the winter holiday that some of them had spent in countries that were at risk of being epidemiologically affected. And prevention of people who come back was the most important thing. The lack of isolation of healthy people, but with contact, caused these people to be among us. They just went all over the country. Unfortunately, proper epidemiological management has not been initiated and communication has not been directed to healthy people. It's those people who aren't sick yet, who are healthy for now, who should be isolated. Unfortunately, prevention and prevention didn't work. Therefore, I do not ask about the present state, because the stage of prevention and prevention is behind us. I'm asking if we're prepared for a possible epidemic that could happen any time soon, next week, in 10 days. The virus is highly contagious, spreads rapidly and is characterized by a long incubation period, 7 and 21 days. That's why I'm asking the Minister here. Is there an epidemic scenario? What is the model of infection development, what is the estimation of events? How many people are estimated to be sick, how fast will the spread be, how will we secure the sick? We know that the virus primarily attacks the lungs, which is why we need to ask for treatment. Do we have the right number of troops prepared? Will these patients be treated only in infectious wards or pulmonary wards? How many ventilators do we have? How are high-risk people secured? Are we prepared to receive an increased number of patients by doctors? Or maybe it's time to decide. about changing the care and approach to the treatment of these patients? We are also hearing the voices à about sanitary transport, which is why I would like the Minister to answer questions on this subject. What is the position of the Minister of Health on the organisation of large mass events, especially those on which people from abroad will be present? This party is about to take place in Katowice. We want to know from the Minister what are the concrete actions, what is the strategy and what are the estimates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Minister Kraska to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At first, I would like to thank you for the words you have addressed to us for asking us to really maintain the seriousness of this discussion, because the situation in Europe with regard to the presence of Coronavirus is very serious. We, the Ministry of Health, the chief health inspector and all our services, work 100%. Indeed, three weeks ago there was a meeting of the Senate Committee on Health, where I presented information on the situation and our preparations. In fact, three weeks ago, the situation was definitely different than it is now. A few days ago, there were fires in Western Europe. This applies mainly to Italy. As you know, Italy is a place where Poles are very happy to rest during the winter period. Poles in Italy at that time were actually very many, some of them came back because school holidays were over, but many Poles are still in Italy. Many Poles have also bought holidays or trips to Italy. As recommended by the chief health inspector, we advise against such trips, so if anyone goes there, they do it on their own responsibility. Again, at the moment, we should not recommend such trips. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very dynamic. It actually changes from hour to hour. There are now more than 81 000 people in the world infected with the cancer virus, more than 2 000 700 patients have died and 381 people are infected in the European Union at the moment. Well, it's pretty big data. For today, at this moment, where I am presenting this information to you, we do not have a confirmed case of Coronavirus in Poland. All the tests that were done in our country, and there were over 350 of them, showed a negative result. The situation is very dynamic, hence the procedures that we recommend to all our services, but also to all health care, are up-to-date and up-to-date in our facilities. I would like to tell you that we are monitoring the situation on an ongoing basis. At the moment, there are 47 people hospitalized in Poland with a suspicion of coronavirus infection and 55 people are quarantined and so-called. epidemiological surveillance, active epidemiological surveillance is covered by 1 000 570 persons. This is a large number, these are people who report to sanitary stations, and sanitary stations monitor their health on an ongoing basis. Because things have changed, our actions have changed. Since yesterday at all airports in Poland there is a temperature measurement of passengers who return from China and from the Italian direction. This is a measurement that allows us to catch passengers with a high temperature, having a fever. These passengers are then directed to medical points where they are examined, where an epidemiological interview is being conducted. This is where it is decided whether the patient, or in fact, the passenger, will be sent to an infectious hospital and transported there, or will be subject to other procedures. For all returning from Italy we have launched SMS notifications, they have received a text message on their phones, which contains information on how to proceed after returning from Italy. It's a procedure, I'd say, two things. If we've been in Italy, we come back from this holiday and we have a fever, we have a cough, we have shortness of breath, then we should either call the emergency and epidemiology station or report directly to the infectious hospital, to the emergency room of this hospital. Let's not go to the family doctor, let's not go to the usual emergency room because it's a potential source of the infection. On the other hand, if we have arrived from Italy and are feeling well, we have no symptoms of infection, we have no fever, we should observe each other for 14 days, you can measure each other's temperature every day. If such symptoms occur, fever, malaise, myalgia, coughing, It's just like I said before. We contact a sanitary and epidemiological station or report directly to an infectious hospital. There may also be a situation where we came back from Italy and had contact with a person who had already been infected with the coronavirus. Then we should absolutely report to a health and epidemiology station where we will be quarantined. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that we carry out preventive measures on an ongoing basis, we are very widely distributed, promoting hygiene rules, which are simply hand washing, which unfortunately sometimes we forget. This is an excellent opportunity for us to promote this. If we cough, if we sneeze, then, of course, let's cover our mouths, because it's a good way to infect more people. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that the coronavirus has appeared, as you know perfectly well, we are also in a period of influenza. Since 1 October 2019 in Poland more than 2.5 million people have suffered from the flu, and over 10,000 people have been hospitalized for this reason. In February alone, more than 600,000 people were ill. In Poland, the problem of flu is certainly serious at the moment. As we have always called for, we also call on everyone to vaccinate themselves against influenza, because this is very important. Every day we receive reports on the number of beds in infectious hospitals, these reports are updated daily. Today we have this pool ready, they are prepared. If such a situation were to occur, that these beds would need much more, the next plan would be to convert the internist troops into infectious units. For starters, we want to do this in those hospitals that, apart from the infectious wards, have other wards, because then there's access to the infectants' doctors, but it all depends on the situation that's going to happen. The chief health inspector has prepared a plan in case of an epidemic. This is a nationwide plan. I think the inspector will present him to the House in a moment, of course, if the marshal permits. We also monitor the number of intensive care facilities, because coronavirus infection, but also flu virus, causes severe pneumonia, which unfortunately sometimes need to be treated in intensive care units, as this requires so-called. Respiratory distress. At the moment, in Poland we have 3 000 825 intensive care facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also launched the Material Reserve Agency because we receive signals from hospital directors that there are deficiencies in equipment, in personal supplies. We all know how important it is that we do not put medical personnel at risk. It is these people who will treat potential ill people, which is why we are getting information from hospital directors about these needs. The deficiencies in these hospitals will be completed by the Material Reserve Agency. All services, such as medical rescue, have procedures and protective suits in case there's a need to transport such a patient. We also have so-called in Poland. Transport insulators, we've got about 40 of them. It looks, you can say, cosmically, but it is actually very effective, because then full isolation of such a patient occurs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Coronavirus epidemic is so... At the moment, the data shows that 80% This is done in a light, mild way. The number of deaths is estimated at 2 , depending on the data we show. It's more or less the same as the flu infection. I think we should also think about the flu, which, well, we've had a bit of a habit. We're not talking about it, and it's another year, another flu season, when there's so much of it. Unfortunately, older people, people who have many different diseases, whether it's diabetes or respiratory disease or kidney disease, are more likely to have fatal effects of infection, unfortunately it can end in death. That is why we should pay particular attention to this. As far as mass events are concerned, such events are currently planned in the country. If the epidemiological situation indicates this, the decision of the voivodship at the request of the voivodship health inspector can be called off. I'm sure we won't hesitate to cancel these parties. At present, there is no confirmed case of coronavirus, so it is difficult to make such a decision, but it can change from one hour to the next. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I am ready to respond. Like we said, there's been a hotline in the NFZ since yesterday. 800 190 590 is a phone that anyone who has any doubts can call and get information about what to do in a given case where to report. We also update guidelines for POZ doctors, we know that they want to take care of these patients, they want to do it. Madam President spoke about sanitary transport. We're actually going to extend probably... The idea is to keep the family doctor's health care system running 24 hours a day so that the patient can possibly be transported to an infectious hospital. So that medical rescue is prepared and available. If you don't mind, I'd ask Inspector Jarosław Pinkas to tell you what we're doing on his part, the chief health inspector.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator Minister. I'd like to invite the head of the Chief Sanitary Inspector. Then it will be customary to ask questions, both of you, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. Everyone's anxious, we're torn up, we don't know what's gonna happen. There's a virus that we don't know much about, but we're smarter every hour. We are wiser about the experience of other countries, we are experienced because science has been opened and access to it without any access. There's a full exchange of information. Information on clinical cases is published, conclusions are drawn. We're up to speed. Dr. Libera-Malecka asked about the state of preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of preparation for this virus is the state of preparation and acceptance of what is requested by the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the State Sanitary Inspection, the Minister of Health, all services. It is a request that we maintain a good state of mind and a good state of emotion, because it is our behaviour that can cause us to be equipped with the most important weapons in the fight against this virus. This weapon is peace, the weapon is the state of our knowledge, the knowledge of every citizen who should not fear that he will remain alone, should know that there are servants, any state service that will ensure that he has a sense of security. But it really depends on a single citizen who has to behave prudently in this case. This discretion is an analysis of your own health condition, it is an analysis of the danger, whether there is a threat around this person, it is responsible behavior, such as not to infect others, it will remain at home, it is quarantine, it is the implementation of all the guidelines that are contained on the pages of the Minister of Health and the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate, and also the belief that in Poland there are dedicated doctors, nurses, laboratory diagnities that we have equipment, we have laboratories, we know how to study the virus, we know how to isolate, we know what quarantine is, we know when a patient can be released. We are absolutely up to date with the knowledge available to us. Mr. Marshal, I would like to say first of all that if we are safe right now and I think that most Poles have this sense of security We are safe thanks to health professionals, thanks to 16 thousand health inspection staff, 308 district stations, 10 border stations, 16 voivodeships and the chief health inspector, the Chief Sanitary Inspector. Although we're not fixed, we're working together. We're a little lucky to have the pionization bill coming into force right now. It'll be easier for us to manage. But right now we are safe because, as I know, President Andrzej Duda has signed our bill and the management system for epidemic emergencies will be even more efficient. Mr. Marshal, how are we prepared? I'll be very brief. Of course, I will not present you with the state of preparation, but I should actually present the first page of the document that we have prepared, showing the actions of the State Sanitary Inspection, all those of my dedicated colleagues who are still dealing with a few thousand people under active epidemiological surveillance today. Thank you so much for that. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be a surprise to you that the first date that appears in the schedule of actions undertaken by the Chief Sanitary Inspector in connection with the emergence in the world of cases of infections and diseases related to the new koravirus, then called 2019, is the date of 9 January. Yeah, January 9th. Look, as far as we have overtaken the World Health Organization, if previously analysts in the Chief Sanitary Inspector, my colleagues at the CMKP Public Health School, which I have the honour of directing, have pointed out that there is a threat, a threat that has appeared many thousands of kilometres from us. First of all, the analytical activities, the deepening of knowledge every day, the analysis of all relevant publications that appeared in impacted magazines, seminars, meetings in the health inspector, have led to the fact that... to this day it is several dozen pages. These are dozens of pages of our actions, and on each page there are guidelines, messages that have been made thanks to the fact that a number of scientists, national consultants, doctors and epidemiologists have been working on them. We have come to consensus, implemented what has been proposed by institutions that control diseases in the world, in Atlanta, Stockholm, the ECDC, by the World Health Organization. We took part in all conferences and teleconferences. The Minister of Health was at the EPSCO meeting. The Minister for Health asked the Croatian Presidency for a special and extraordinary meeting of health ministers. We were active. Mr. Marshal, I am sure that the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the Ministry of Health, national consultants, all the professionals of that time have not slept through; that we have done everything possible based on knowledge. Although we also know that much ahead of us that the situation is dynamic, that we cannot sleep a half hour when there is a situation that we should respond to. We'll be ready for her. We will be prepared in exactly the same way as other countries that have made few mistakes, because we are lucky that we do not have Coronavirus in Poland so far and we can analyze situations where viruses have spread in which wrong decisions have been made, it is necessary to call it clearly, no one is perfect. We have to look at the whole world and do it every day 24 hours a day. The health inspection has been on permanent expert duty for weeks. It is a permanent on-call to follow what is happening in the world and to intervene quickly. Of course, we are doing this together with the Minister of Health. The entire government is kept informed. Mr. Prime Minister's knowledge of Coronavirus is really impressive. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for having this debate in this House today, which has such great respect, in which there are only good emotions. I know that you are in contact with the media and that the good emotions of peace and reason will be passed on. For this, the health inspectors you probably know are thanking you because you're in contact with them. There's someone in every county who cares about the health and health of the country. We had 100 years of experience last year. This year is the first hundred years of experience in fighting infectious diseases in Poland. We're a country, so to speak, quite decently vaccinated. We have good population status and, despite the anti-vaccine movements, we have increased confidence in vaccination. After this, we will have even more confidence in vaccination. People believed that there were viruses, that there were bacteria, that there was a threat that professionals and authorities needed were needed, that there was a need for peace. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u9	Thank you, Minister. And I'd like to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of those words that say that peace is needed, I beg you... Because I understand that there must be some mistake in Mr. Kraska's quote, because until I wrote down his statement, he said that 80% Coronavirus cases are mild and the number of deaths is between 2% and 4%, as is the case with influenza. I understand it was an accident... that it was a shortcut. Why? Because if it were the same as the flu, and from the beginning of October to the middle of February, 2 million 665 thousand 494 patients in Poland... So if the number of deaths in the case of Coronavirus is the same as in the case of flu, we would already have 80,000 deaths in Poland as a result of flu. Fortunately, it is not because 48 people have died so far. So let's just say the flu isn't the same as the coronavirus. And I hope the Minister just made a mistake. And now I'm going to get to specific questions. Of course, by accepting all these statements of preparation as a good coin, I would also like to point out in advance that I will also ask for written answers to each of these questions. I will ask you to answer the following questions. Have you reviewed the procedures for entering the country? I am talking about procedures at road, rail, pedestrian crossing points, seaports and airports, both at the external borders of the Union and at borders within the so-called. Schengen agreements, i.e. the internal borders of the Union. If such a review has been made, please make detailed conclusions on this review. What new regulations will you introduce in relation to the risk of coronavirus? Have you checked the procedures in medical facilities, both clinics and hospitals? Did you analyze, among others. the May 2018 NIK report, which indicated that only in a year-to-year arrangement, 2015-2016, did we have a threefold increase in the number of patients infected with drug-resistant strains of bacteria? If this review was done, of course I ask for detailed information about what is coming from it. Have you checked the procedures in the medical emergency units and the health centers? And what is the result of this review? And do you have any simulations of development, possibly, of course, an epidemiological threat? I ask this in the context of the simulation of the number of beds needed and the possibility of an increase in this number, because the Minister was talking in general about converting individual branches into infectious units. Please provide detailed information on which branches are selected and in which time frame if necessary. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, it doesn't make any sense... Not according to the rules. One minute now...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u11	Thank you very much. That's even more of those questions... These are questions for Minister Kraska, I understand. Yes, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u12	Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter. However, the rules indicate that there is 1 minute for the question, not for such a large series of questions. That's.... All right, Mr... We need to change the rules. If this is to be a debate from which we have to understand something and find out...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u13	The subject is very serious and the questions are serious too. Yeah, but there should be some time and substance discipline, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, formal motion. Good. What conclusion? With a formal application. Because the subject is... There you go, Senator Jazlowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u14	Since we are dealing with a very serious subject and we are in a very serious situation, I would ask the marshal not to limit the time for the senators to one minute of the questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the rules are clear. It states that the questioner should fit in one minute. There's a lot of questions, so I have an appeal. If someone can't fit in, maybe... Next round. ...to ask questions in the next round. That's the appeal. Well, I'm not appealing to Senator Kwiatkowski anymore because he asked such a question... You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Maybe it was a thought shortcut, Mr. Senator. Of the 2.5 million people who were reported as infected with the flu virus, there were only 10,000 hospitalized, so I as a practice, as a doctor would be more... Because the flu isn't always clearly the flu, there are paragrypic symptoms that suggest the flu, but it's not the flu. So hospitalized was Over 10,000 people. Mortality is exactly what I said it would be. As for the border crossing points, because that's what Senator Kwiatkowski asked, the procedures at the air crossings are very strict. They are implemented from the beginning, yesterday we added temperature measurement at all airports in Poland. This is a scrining study, but I think it will also make it easier for us to catch the so-called. a zero patient, that is, this patient, from which an epidemic can start in Poland. We know of an Italian example, where the difficulties in the location of this zero patient have led to the epidemic taking the shape it has at the moment. At the railroad crossings we also implemented... In all international relations trains, passengers are now being given leaflets in 3 languages to know how to proceed, what to do with each other if they return from areas where they could be exposed to coronavirus infection. About the road crossings... Well, we don't have border control right now. In many countries of the European Union, periodic border checks are being considered. We're not considering this scenario right now. Traffic is kind of trouble-free, all those who cross the Polish border, most often in private cars, get SMS messages on their cells because operators make it possible If they had any symptoms suggesting that they might be infected with the coronavirus, they would continue to do so. Medical procedures, ladies and gentlemen, in medical facilities are constantly updated, because this situation is constantly changing. Mr. Senator, who was the head of NIK, knows perfectly well that the procedure, apart from the fact that it is, in paper or electronic form, must also be implemented, because the fact that it is, it is not enough, therefore the NFZ troops are in constant contact with hospital directors who update these procedures on a regular basis. Also in medical emergency... As a practice, I know that these procedures have always been the case for previous epidemics, whether SARS or Ebola, and protective equipment, and procedures are similar to previous epidemics. They're used. We also have signals about the need to fill the gaps in personal protective equipment. For any such signal on an ongoing basis from the material reserves of the State, this will be supplemented. When it comes to beds where patients with a coronavirus could potentially find themselves, as I said, we report the state of these beds every day. At the moment, as far as infectious hospitals in Poland are concerned, we have almost 300 beds with so-called. an active respiratory protection system, i.e. that the patient in the room is completely isolated, and almost 600 beds with a contact protection system. I think that when it comes to flu and Coronavirus, these 2 systems are sufficient because we see that isolation of the patient from others and providing personnel who are in contact with the patient, personal protective equipment is definitely enough. Of course, we will also give the senator the exact information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u17	Thank you, Minister. I now have a question for Minister Pinkas. I'd like to ask you, Minister, to the podium. Minister, I'd like you to tell me what to do to a person who feels bad and who drives from a place where there's a risk of a coronavirus. Should such a person go to a clinic, or to the nearest hospital, or to an infectious hospital, or should they call an ambulance? I would like you to say this so that it is clear to those listening to our deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u18	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for this question. That's an extremely valuable question. I think I'm going to answer them in a very clear way. Of course, each of us may have doubts. It's flu season, it's got all kinds of infections on it. Pretty clear information is available on the GIS website, how to proceed. There is a hotline running and you can use it. I think the information will be absolutely clear and clear. I'll be perfectly clear: if we were in Italy or in those places that were designated by the Chief Health Officer as a potential threat... They are mentioned every day in a new communication that is available on our websites and is, of course, also updated in terms of information about the virus, i.e. on a special website created by the Ministry of Health... Of course, we make a contribution there all the time. But let's do this by example. Someone came back from northern Italy, especially in the Padua area, from two municipalities that are quarantined. If he's okay, he should have a two-week quarantine out of his senses. If he was very close, if he was feeling well, but he had contact or suspicion that he had been in contact with sick people for 2 weeks at home. If you have symptoms, please make a call to the State Sanitary Inspection on the GIS website are interactive references to all district inspections Where he gets information about what he's going to do next. This information will look like this: continue to observe, we will monitor your condition or your health and tell you how to proceed. In 80% of cases, it'll be just a common cold. We treat a common cold with homemade drugs, just like our grandmothers and moms did, and that's effective. It's probably gonna take a while. The health inspector is now equipped with a new tool allowing him to apply for medical leave. We have a legal interpretation prepared a few days ago by the President, Professor Gertruda Uścińska, that according to legal regulations such a situation may take place. So a person who has a medical discharge will not be a potential source of infection, it will be safe and, above all, secure for others. That's the sense of responsibility. Mr. Marshal, what's going to happen to a person who feels bad who feels like he needs medical attention, that a professional needs to take care of her? She should be on the infectious disease ward, calling the medical emergency team, about which Minister Kraska spoke, who will take her to this ward. It should not use public transport, that is the basic principle. The infectious disease division will be examined, a medical decision will be made there, what to do with it and whether to carry out tests. If you have to do the tests, the tests will be done. It's usually a throat swab. Then we do RT-PCR, which is a very precise study showing the presence of genetic material of the virus in the body. The patient will be treated symptomatically, then, of course, in isolation conditions. I hope there won't be any complications. Like I said, 80% of the patients are going to get through this smoothly. There's gonna be cases like this. They are dependent on age. In which complications may occur. The most serious of them is that which is described as COVID, or viral pneumonia. Generally, COVID is a broader concept, but we also treat pneumonia in a symptomatic manner. Of course, it requires proper equipment, ventilators. In the final... Maybe not in the final one, because I hope it will never happen, but if necessary we also have access to ECMO, we have many devices of this type that make the body better oxidized, so colloquially speaking, and there is a chance that the patient will recover. What is the mortality associated with this virus? Different sources speak differently, but based on the data that we have after an analysis of about 80,000 cases, we can say that mortality is between 2.6 and 4%. She's also dependent on the place she's been researched. I mean. it will be significantly smaller in Europe, where there is good access to healthcare, and indeed worse where there is no healthcare. Mortality is also associated with age, illness, immune disorders, and nutrition. All deaths recorded in Europe are consistent with older people, with multi-morbidity, with sick burdens. You can say that middle-aged people, young people, have a huge chance of getting better. Interestingly, children are very rarely ill. We have no case of a child's death. This is probably related to the angiotensin II receptors on the epithelial cells through which the virus enters the body. There's one more thing. The World Health Organization, the ECDC, the CDC are only talking about two weeks of quarantine. Perhaps there are cases. It would be necessary to analyse them very carefully. In which the virus appeared much later. Nevertheless, the recommendations that apply to us are a global village, so we are to do exactly what the world and world experts recommend about 14-day observation. I have a deep conviction that, thanks to reason and this information, I thank the Marshal once again for being able, I think, to classify and present this information in such a way that they are fairly clear. We will never have a situation of bad emotions and constant questions: what am I going to do about it? Ladies and gentlemen, we've probably all had contact with the coronavirus, absolutely every one of us. It's the seventh coronavirus detected in the world, 4 of which are common cold viruses. Do we have any doubt about what we should do when we have a cold? Let's ask our moms and grandmothers. Sometimes it's also worth asking the doctor. I don't trivialize it, and I don't underestimate the whole thing, but I think reasonableness indicates that we don't generate dangerous situations involving an excessive number of patients in infectious hospitals. Mr. Marshal, at the very end, I will answer the most important question. The marshal asked me where we should go. We never go to a primary care doctor. The family doctor's waiting room is a very dangerous place, a place of potential danger, a big threat. So is the hospital rescue unit and other places where there are no infectious units. By analysing the epidemiological situation related to three viruses that are not cold viruses, i.e. With SARS, MERS and the current coronavirus, we know exactly that the spread of the virus was caused by contact with health care facilities. Mr. Marshal, it happened in Padua, it happened in the case of MERS in Korea, the same thing happened now, in Wuhan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u19	Thank you. Minister, just a moment, because there may be questions for you. Mr. Senator Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have just been informed by the chairman of the health committee in the Łódź magistrate, Sebastian Bohusiewicz, that we have a confirmed case of disease, of Coronavirus. So I have a request, Mr. Marshal, for a formal recess, so that the Minister can check it out and clear it up. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can answer that, Mr. Marshal. Unless the Minister already knows everything and he can tell us everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u21	Mr Senator, I am about to give the floor to Minister Krasca. I think the Minister is able to check and explain the matter without interruption. You're welcome, Minister Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is indeed a case that appeared in the media yesterday. That's the kind of information we get from the country a dozen times a day. I'll tell you again, Mr. Senator: there is no confirmed case of Coronavirus at present. I'm also talking about the case you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u23	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, this information is just moments ago, please check it out. Mr. Senator, the answer is clear. I understand there's gonna be some kind of check. You're welcome, Minister Pinkas.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u24	What I'm trying to say is that we're totally up to date. I know exactly the history of the Łódź patient. Of course, there's doctor-patient confidentiality here. The patient is under constant epidemiological surveillance, is in an infectious hospital, contacts are and have been analyzed. Between you and me, this patient already had a double-checked RT-PCR for the presence of this virus. The results were negative, and further analysis is underway at the moment. We have no information today that this is the case. I feel like I'm even sure we'll be the first. Minister Waldemar Kraska, who manages issues related to the coronavirus in the Ministry of Health, and my humble person will rather be the first to learn about the positive outcome. These studies are conducted at the National Institute of Public Health. I'm sure the first information will come to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u25	Thank you, Minister. Senator Eve Matecka is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u26	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! Inspector! For the past three weeks, we have been asking about the state's state of preparation for the fight against the coronavirus. Your attitude was a little more optimistic three weeks ago. Ours was not and we paid attention to this powerful threat. Now I see that indeed, gentlemen also approach this with great distance and humility. What is the state of knowledge of Poles? At the time, I noted that knowledge and education were the most important in this area, apart from the preparation of equipment, staff, etc. What is the state of knowledge of Poles about this? Poles continue to report to the primary health care facility in case of suspicion, report to the SOR where they should not go. Poles do not know the network of infectious hospitals to which they should turn, and they should have such knowledge. Perhaps this is also the result of a little of their negligence, but all Poles should be informed where the nearest infectious hospital in their area is located. My question is: does this information reach Poles in any way? That's one thing. Second. Who can issue a referral to a coronavirus detection study? And one more question. How really is this intensive care department? 'Cause I'm gonna say I just checked it out. The hospital in Poznań is preparing an infectious hospital, and there is no hospital in Kalisz and Konin. Sick people who require ventilators are to be treated in normal ICUs. So what's this situation with the ICUs really like? And is there information about a short path of access to assistance in infectious wards for all citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u27	You're welcome, Minister. Minister Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator! Three weeks ago, we took this very seriously, and today is the same. Three weeks ago, the situation was actually a little different than it is now. Then the source of the infection was actually those who were in China or had contact with the person who came back from China. We have had a different situation for several days because we have a large outbreak of infection in Europe, and the procedure has had to change a bit. But then, and today, we've been taking it very seriously. Through the Main Health Inspector's website, the Health Ministry's website, but also daily via many media, we try to find out how to proceed, what to do when we were exposed to the exposure of this virus, how to proceed. That's the information we give you. On our website, on the website of the Ministry of Health is a bookmark and there are listed all infectious hospitals and infectious branches, because not always an infectious hospital is a separate structure, sometimes they are branches in hospitals. If necessary and the epidemiological need may be from day to day different The branches that will require conversion into infectious wards will be transformed, the branches that have respirators and will be needed to protect patients in terms of coronavirus infection, will be converted and patients will be hospitalized there. We've already advised the faculty directors to make sure that there are such cases. They did not receive scheduled patients, and if necessary, we will extend this to other hospital units, so that we can concentrate our strength to help those infected with the coronavirus. We have a national plan prepared. Everything will depend on the start-up of the different stages. We talk, inform whether it's by text or by the media or by the Internet, also on TV in various stations there will be boards that tell us what to do, how to act, how to behave. So I think that information, if anybody wants it, it's gonna get to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u29	Thank you, Minister. Senator Alicia Chybicka is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a fundamental question. You said 80%. people will get this infection asymptomatic or will have mild symptoms. It is obvious that these people infect, walk among us, and probably already there are many of them. I'm going back to that case. Are you maintaining what you said that we are well secured? What is the security when these people walk, they're not being called anywhere, they're not being controlled, and what is known is that these people are getting more and more? There are no doubt many of them, and they are circling between us. That's one thing. Question two. What's the quality of these tests? What kind of accreditation do they have? Genetic tests for virological tests are quite accurate. I'm reading today's newspaper, the Lodz Journal: in a woman confirmed, the test is positive for the examination of Coronavirus, it has repeated this test. Why would I do that? I've been working for a long time, and I know we don't repeat genetic tests 100 times. Are these tests useless? Are these, I don't know, the lowest shelves? What's going on here? Why is the test repeated in a woman who flew in from Thailand, flew in, was symptomatic, had an antibiotic? This isn't a case that's not a suspect. It's positive, and you say it's not a coincidence. I'm the one asking, what's the coincidence? What's it gonna take for you to say it's a coincidence? Another thing: masks. These ordinary surgical masks pass the viruses, generally speaking, they're useless. What masks should citizens have if they really want to protect themselves from the virus? And where are they? Where can you buy them? Where do you get them? Why in January, on January 30, the pandemic is announced by the WHO and Poland does not introduce any warnings? She hasn't declared a pandemic. She announced that this virus was threatening a pandemic. She didn't announce. Pandemic is a known term. Minister Pinkas would perfectly explain that this means that sooner or later it will come to every country. Then why were many people allowed to leave the Mazowieckie and Lower Silesia voivodeship after 30 January? Flights from Italy arrived in Wroclaw and people arrived by bus. Nobody measured the temperature, no one did anything at all. Autocars aren't controlled at all, not to mention private cars. There was no warning. There are warnings about going to Thailand, but the Pole, like the Pole, as he has already spent some money, is going to Thailand, risking his life not only to his own, but also to other citizens. Why is there no more radical method? Ladies and gentlemen, this may sound harsh, but the moment this pandemic arrives, And the WHO announces it, not just anyone. Then we will regret that all of these restrictions were not there, because it turns out that many people among us carry this virus asymptomaticly and infects. And the elderly, in immunosuppression, with allergies, with other diseases such as diabetes, such as cancer, will die. Minister, where do you want to put these sick people, which ventilators do you want to put them on? Where are your ventilators? Don't throw those numbers, because I work at the hospital, and I know we don't have a single free ventilator. Where are you gonna get them? Will you unplug those who are connected to those ventilators? How many free ventilators do you have in Poland? How many lungs do you have? Well, let's just say you don't care about these slow ventilators, I believe you, I trust you, just tell me how many of them are and where they are. Let's say you have these slow ventilators, but the patient's lungs are getting out, they're not moving oxygen, and he's got to get his lung. Where are you gonna get them? How will you save the lives of the elderly and other diseases? Well, we'll think there's nothing we can do about them, that's fine. Thank you, Senator... I don't want to hear it. Life is priceless.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u31	Thank you, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the chief health inspector, Minister Pinkas, will have to go to KPRM by 12 o'clock, because there will be a briefing on this matter. Therefore, if there are questions for him, ask them until then. There's a minister... And he'll stay, as I understand it, Minister. Yes, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, we are in this House not the first year. I'm really surprised at your behavior right now. You're a medical professor, and you really know exactly how doctors should behave in this situation. Such a heating of emotions in this place does not really serve all of us. [[Applause]] Don't clap 'cause you look funny. You say that very emotionally. I always like to talk to you, I know you, and I know you're taking this very seriously, but let's not scare the Poles right now. Let's not scare the Poles because there's no need for that right now. When it comes to these tests that we repeat, I will just remind you that in the case of this 30-year-old who flew to Poland from Wuhan and was in Wroclaw, we repeated the test three times. You say it's too much. We want to be sure, and not even 100 percent. We want to make 200 percent sure that these results are really negative. And don't be surprised that sometimes we repeat these tests. We're doing this to really make sure that the person who's going through the tests is negative. There's still an aspect of these masks. Ladies and gentlemen, as a surgeon, I've worked my whole life in a surgical mask. This mask is for me not to contaminate the operating field. I, potentially ill, if I have a cold, if I sneeze, wear a mask so that I don't infect this field. The patient who's lying and in surgery doesn't have a mask. That's why the mask itself, which is so popular right now, isn't gonna protect us from being infected with the coronavirus. I emphasize that, for the time being, it won't protect you. If we have a cold, we have a cough, we sneeze, let's cover our mouths. If we want the mask to do it, go ahead, but once again, it won't protect us from infection, whether it's a flu virus or a coronavirus. It is also not true what you said, which means that the buses returning from abroad are not checked by us. Please... It's true that if... I mean, no one stands at the border because there's no need for that right now. If information is reported to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Italy that such a coach is returning, the national health inspector shall direct his services and on-the-spot services to control the situation on that coach. I personally have three such coaches who have reported... They were in Enjoy by our inspectors controlled. And that's the truth. Of course, car traffic is not under such control. Well, it's hard to expect us to reach every citizen who comes back from Italy personally. The text information sent is so clear that if we have a health problem, we know where and how to report. Will the Minister be able to fill in the... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u33	Okay, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, nobody's warming up the atmosphere here, but there's a problem. I'd ask for your help... What do you mean, no? I can hear you. I'm very calm. ...so there's less polemics and more peace and information. Each senator has the right to ask questions and concerns are general and among others. That's why the information's here. I would ask everyone to ask questions calmly, and I would ask the Minister to answer unconfronted questions. You're welcome, Minister Pinkas.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Professor, Senator, we are conducting tests, which are, of course, very modern tests. Until two months ago, no one had such tests, just a month and a half ago these tests were only in reference laboratories. In the beginning there were 2 such laboratories, the first was in Charité, the second in Rotterdam. That's where we sent the first samples because there were only two laboratories in the world or in Europe. Later, the number of reference laboratories was increased by 6 more. As soon as it was possible, when we had sequences of viral nucleotides, RNA, when genetic patterns were available, we started 2 diagnostic lines. One is at the National Institute of Public Health, where outstanding laboratory diagnes and virusologists work, who know that in order to release the result, they must be convinced that this is the result that protects the patient and the environment in this situation. These results are often repeated because these tests are so fresh that they seem to have some hypersensitivity, as is usually the case with genetic testing of the virus. I'm reminding you that we're investigating the presence of a virus, not an antibody. This is a complex process requiring appropriate apparatus and well-educated laboratory diagnostics. I assure you, Professor, that we are getting these tests from companies that meet all the criteria for allowing such tests for diagnostic activities related to human material. These are not tests for cats that were once offered to us, there were situations like this. By the way, cats have coronaviruses, they have peritonitis. A lot of situations had to be analysed so that we could implement diagnostic lines on equipment that gives us confidence that the result was correct. Until now, we are in force, Professor... If we have a positive result, we can send it to the reference labs to check it out, just to Charité, with whom we have the closest contact. We also made contact with them on the first day, as soon as they were appointed as a reference laboratory. So I promise you, we don't buy anything from the bottom shelf. We buy what will give Poles the greatest safety, and to doctors and laboratory diagnostics the certainty that the results will be good for possible therapy and that they are simply reliable and validated. I'm so glad you told me about the diagnostics. I must say here that there is one professional group that is underestimated. Those are lab diagnes. They locked behind the doors of the labs are completely invisible, and they're the ones that have a key role right now in the diagnosis of the virus and in the fight against the virus. At the moment, these tests are also carried out in BSL-3 laboratories, which is not necessary. Perhaps that's the question. We have a disposition... I myself gave a recommendation after an expert council that we can do this research also in a laboratory with a lower security class, i.e. in laboratories that are in voivodship sanitary inspectors, voivodship sanitary inspection. There's six of them. First, in Olsztyn, from the day before yesterday, the next are waiting for tests and probably tonight some more will start their diagnostic line. We have the impression and even the certainty... Sorry, you can't use the word "sensitivity" here. We are sure that by the middle of next week six laboratories will be under full steam, although I hope you will not have to carry out an excessive number of tests. The government has purchased a very large number of tests in the central purchase. We have the possibility to extend these studies also to academic centres, to hospitals that have thermocyclers, i.e. devices that are used to conduct this diagnosis. We're actually pretty rich when it comes to appliances. So far, both of these labs' working powers have been absolutely sufficient, but we want to be sure and do things with absolute extraterrestrials, so that we all have a sense of security and that access to these tests is as good as possible. If there's a question about why we've been doing this for so long, I'll say, among other things. to collect material and do it's a certain wave, because it's a very expensive study. The cheapest test that is currently available on the market costs approx. 240 zł plus what needs to be added to this, i.e. the work of laboratory diagnostics and laboratory workflow. So it's very expensive. But we're not doing this because we're saving, just because we're rationally using all the materials we have right now. There was a very big problem with accessing the genetic pattern. The whole world wanted it all of a sudden at the same time. We should do the shopping... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u35	Minister, I am very sorry, but since your time is running out, I would like to ask you in the courtroom who has specific questions for the Minister who must... Mrs. Marshal... Who among those who are already written down for questions... I'm sure you're Senator Tyszkiewicz, I'm sure I am, and I'm sure you're Senator Hibner. Who else of the people who are already... I'm sure they're here. Who? The minister's office. The Minister's office. Which minister? Minister Pinkas. To the inspector. Inspector Pinkas, yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So these are the three people... 4. Are you already registered? Of course. Yeah, it's written down. I'm gonna let those questions go first. I would very much ask that these questions be brief, specific and that your answers also be concrete, because you are limited in time. There you go, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u36	Minister, Inspector, I will try to speak quickly and ask the question at the end. In the case of the Minister, I am still able to understand what you are saying, we will clarify certain issues, but you, Inspector, cannot be listened to. You're calling for peace of mind, for fear of panic, for lack of political use... Question. Okay, listen to me. Maybe before I ask a question, a brief example. You're saying today you're ready for Coronavirus. Maybe today, but Monday you weren't completely prepared, completely. Question. Mr. Senator... But listen to me, I'm not scaring you. Ladies and gentlemen... Ask me a question. Let me ask you a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And don't bother the senator. I care about the inspector's answers because you're lying, Inspector. A group of 10 people who came to Poland came to see me on Monday. They called me from Italy, they were literally 30 km from the red zone, the most vulnerable region. They asked for help. I started everything I could, called from a town in Lubuskie Voivodeship... I'm not going to name this town because I don't want to panic, but of course you have Pegasus, you can listen to all my calls, they're all out there somewhere... Question. Okay, take it easy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have activated all my possible contacts, I have called the health inspection, I have spoken to the director of health inspection in Lubuskie voivodship, I have called the hospital, and the only hospital contagious in Lubuskie voivodship is a hospital in Zielona Góra. Nobody knew anything. I called your marshal, we reached your voivodeship. Nobody knew anything. I managed to convince these 10 people to undergo the tests you speak so wonderfully of. 350 researches in a 38 million-dollar country. You think that's a success? This is a misunderstanding. These people were persuaded to get tested. Mr. Senator... I'm almost done. Question, question. Question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely important, these people can infect, understand this. It's not about freaking out. They flew to Berlin last night by plane. I convinced them to get tested. From Berlin they came by bus to the city in Lubuskie Voivodeship. They were ready to get tested, but no one was. He can help us. I've spoken to... in the cockroaches I'll tell you because I don't want to panic or put anybody on some personal responsibility. But you guys say it's so great, and it wasn't great on Monday. It just wasn't. And out of those 10 people... Senator, question, question. I'll tell you what. And of these 10 people, 2 people have serious symptoms. One man has a fever, he's sick, he actually went to the health center yesterday, got a facial and was told to stay home. And the sick child went to the doctor's clinic with her mother, where she was among the sick among the other children. Senator, question, question. My question: how prepared are you... Question. I repeat: it is not true that you are prepared. You weren't there on Monday. 10 people from the region or from the area of the red zone in Italy... Mr. Senator, the question is... I'd like to ask you a question. Okay, question. Are there any available tests? Where can I report? Can you buy such a test? Because on the Internet you can read that it costs 500 PLN. And these people are willing to pay 500 zlotys to do these tests. But they're completely left behind. At least on Monday they were You're on your own, aren't you? The health inspection isn't working... I'm talking about the formal... ...the troops are down. These are facts. Those are facts! So I'm asking you to answer, where are these people supposed to turn themselves in? In Belize, at the airport. Why are you mocking me? Why are you mocking me?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u37	Please, Minister, you can answer where... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Miss... I would like to suggest, Mrs. Marshal, the task of all questions to Minister Pinkas, and then there would be an answer. But I have to go now... Where are these people supposed to come in? Okay, I... If there's no objection in the courtroom, then... I suggest all questions to Minister Pinkas... I'll answer them in writing, I'll leave you... Good. Well, then, I... But why in writing? Answer me where these people are supposed to report. I'll answer the senator. Which inspector? Mr Senator, the Minister will answer you, but it is the task of all questions to the Minister. Therefore, I will ask a very similar question. In fact, in mid-February, according to initial announcements... In particular, I have... Now there's another question. According to the initial announcements, the tests were to be submitted to all laboratories and sanitary and epidemiological stations. Are these tests already in the labs? That's my first question. I'd also like to hear... an answer in writing. And my second question is: is the health department prepared for the so-called. home health and epidemiology surveillance? Are the employees prepared to visit patients who, for example, They've either been discharged from the hospital or missed the hospital, but do they have any symptoms? Are they prepared for this home surveillance? Senator Jolanta Hibner. He's got a question too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u38	Thank you very much. Because you have presented us here procedures which are currently linked to the possible transmission of the virus, I would like to ask whether you consulted, checked whether another country has applied such procedures. I'm asking because people who already have second-degree symptoms, the ones you've been talking about, they're calling the State Sanitary Inspection, and they're getting information, please listen to me. To report to the nearest unit with an infectious ward. And these people are coming. By tram, by bus, by train... That's right. I'd like to say one thing. There's a problem in Switzerland right now, too, and the Swiss are doing it so that the patient stays at home when he arrives... stays at home, the servants drive up, do tests... He's not leaving. People have a sense of danger right now, so he's not going outside. And we've got a patient through the Department of State Sanitary Inspection to get him to come! Ladies and gentlemen, this is insane in the situation we have.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u39	Thank you, Senator. Minister, as much as you can, please respond. You're welcome. Good. Thank you very much, Senator Tyszkiewicz. I think I... I'm still... Excuse me... Senator Hare, I'm sorry. But Alicia the Hare. So is Alicia, and so is the senator. Mrs. Marshal, we came forward, with Eve Gawada, even when the Marshal led the deliberations... But, Senator, I was just asking who has... I volunteered. But I haven't seen Senator Chawada... I didn't check in yet. I'm sorry, I thought it was a formal request. I volunteered. Okay, there's gonna be questions. Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u40	Minister, we're here as we sit, we're pretty much done. Sorry, it'll be in quotes. A dangerous group on the ability to propagate the virus. Everywhere large groups of people appear, there is someone with such a gun to measure temperature. Would it be possible for us to install this? The fact that such a thing is necessary results from strange observation that even if the senators are sick, they generally do not admit that they are sick and come to meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u41	Thank you very much. And Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u42	Finally. Mr. Minister, three short questions, please just answer yes or no. Are additional procedures in place at blood donation stations? Have the sanitary and epidemiological stations been given additional resources for this procedure? And did the Ministry or the health department make contact with travel agencies or tourist organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u43	And, last but not least, Senator Elephant. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Actually, my question is also an appeal. Don't ministers think that the information that is being provided to the public at the moment should also be accompanied by the need for a very reasonable use of means that mask the symptoms of a cold, flu that mask the temperature or lower the temperature or mask myalgia, joint pains? I believe that this is very important information for a certain group of our society, which treats these measures as a panacea for all kinds of ailments. And the person whose symptoms are masked is potentially very dangerous to the environment. It would be good, therefore, that even in this SMS system such information should be presented, an appeal for reasonable use of these measures. I also appeal from this place to companies that produce these kinds of measures to stop advertising campaigns of this kind at the moment, because it also affects the health and awareness of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u45	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u46	Thank you very much, Marshal. I will address the questions, actually, to one question of Senator Tyszkiewicz. At the very beginning, I would say that it would be worth lowering the diapazon of high emotions. They would have been significantly smaller, they wouldn't have been in your senator's office since Monday if you had read everything on the health inspector's website in extenso first. Probably... What's that? [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...probably the amount of anxiety would be significantly less. I feel, and even I am sure, that I am not missing the truth and that the people you are talking about are subject to home health surveillance, active home surveillance. I'll check it out, of course. That's what the county health inspector is for. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If I find out from you, we'll draw conclusions and make things better. That's why we're here. Nobody's perfect. The virus is most pleased with human error, neglect, nonchalance. And if we respond properly, we will certainly be safe. So that I would very much ask the senator to give us the example you're talking about to solve this situation immediately. That's what we're here for. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no commercial tests, all tests are done by two reference centres. I'll answer your question in writing about the next labs that are already available. Who can give a referral? First of all, doctors of infectious diseases. A patient they suspect... So if we have patients who have, for example. suspected pneumonia, for various other reasons, you can do this examination, and it is done by doctors in pulmonology departments, intensive care units. This examination may also be commissioned by the health inspector to carry out epidemiological surveillance. In a moment, we'll have the right amount of tests, I think, even with some excess. But remember, too, that the whole world is waiting for these tests, and the whole world is preparing at this moment for a crisis that, in my opinion, may not even come. We don't have an declared pandemic by the World Health Organization. What has already been announced is the so-called. PHEIC. This is an alert for public health in the world. This is published mainly for those countries where the potential for health protection is lower. They should be better prepared for this. I will answer all your questions very quickly in writing. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u47	Thank you very much. Then we move on to further asking the Minister's questions. Senator Malecka-Libera. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Since you have not answered any of my questions in a concrete and binding manner, I ask you to answer all the questions I have asked. In particular, it is about the development of accidents, i.e. the estimated number of patients, the security in the form of hospitals, beds and financial resources. But I would like to focus here on another issue, and that is what my fundamental question is. Well, you just said, Minister, that the temperature has been measured at airports for two days. Is that how the isolation of the sick looks? Is it a sanitary regime that we measure the temperature of people at airports? No, the isolation of the sick is meant for healthy people who have had any contact... And that's why I want to ask you a question like that. Didn't you see the need to prepare a specialty? After all, such laws are being prepared Where they would be allowed to leave these people in their homes under L4? The answer to this is that it's legal... Ask me a question. ...but those people didn't know it at all. If such a bill were to be made, it would certainly have echoed widely. And my second question about shopping. Did you do any intervention shopping, e.g. increased equipment, tests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u49	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Of course, Madam President, Senator, these questions I just didn't write them down then; I didn't think they'd be asked at this point. We'll answer in writing. When it comes to measuring the temperature... You said quarantine and temperature measurement. This has nothing to do with this. In addition, we have introduced this temperature measurement scrining in order to possibly increase the chance of catching the so-called. a zero patient. I remind you that in Italy the temperature measurement has been going on for many, many weeks, but it did not, unfortunately, have the effect that this virus did not exist in Italy. As far as I know and what President Andrzej Duda announced yesterday... He asked you to call an extraordinary Senate meeting... Seym. I'm sorry, Sejm. I'm connected to the Senate. ...Sejm. It will then also present the government's up-to-date information on the situation in the country and the actions we are taking and we will take. The President also spoke about a possible legislative initiative. This initiative probably... It's already folded... ...will also appear at this meeting. I can't say anything else. As far as the Material Reserve Agency is concerned, as we are talking about it, we have actually taken steps to keep up with the materials that we are transmitting right now. Unfortunately, I can't tell you about the quantities, because it's classified, but the Material Reserve Agency keeps up to date with the quantities that are assigned to the product range.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm from Katowice. Tomorrow in Katowice begins the biggest non-opener event in Poland, namely international championships in e-sports, and speaking the language of my generation In computer games. Last year more than 176 thousand viewers visited this event. It takes place in a large, so to speak, density in the Katowice Spodek hall and the convention centre. It's the biggest party of its kind in the world, which is why viewers come from all over the world. E-sport is particularly popular in the Far East, which is why we have viewers from Korea, Japan or India. In order to take part in this event, they use not only Polish airports, but also the airport in Katowice Ostrava, Czech Republic, 60 km away. Katowice is also perfectly connected when it comes to car transport, hence numerous groups of viewers from countries such as Germany, France and Italy. Minister, I have a question. Was the party canceled tomorrow? If not, how do you assess the threat and epidemiological security not only of 300,000 inhabitants of Katowice, but also of 3 million inhabitants of the Silesian-Załęgian agglomeration in which Katowice is at heart? What specific actions have been taken to protect this event from the possibility of it becoming not so much a source of infection in Poland, but rather a volcano of this infection, which can explode tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u53	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we do know about this party. The decision of not having such a party is made by the governor... What's the voivodship's decision? ...at the request of the health and epidemiology inspector. I know that epidemiological analyses are currently underway on how this can affect the participants themselves, as well as the residents. We know that this decision will be made and announced today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u56	Thank you very much. Minister! Did the POZ doctors get special instructions? This is not about general messages published on the GIS pages, but about whether they have received specific guidelines on what to do with a patient who goes to the family doctor's office and is feverish. What do I do? Should I send it back to the S.R. or send it back to an infectious hospital? How do I send it back? Should he be advised to transport by rail, by bus, or to use sanitary transport? Second thing. In the last month, did you audit the equipment owned by all hospitals, including 300 county hospitals? I'm asking about equipment audit, mask audit, protective suits, goggles. Do you have any idea what security is? Do you have a procedure for emergency care? Finally, how many tests for Coronavirus are currently available? Why these tests? Can't you do it individually, except for the NFZ? Why aren't all people returning from Italy, even on planes, being tested? I've heard of cases of people coming back on a plane landing in Munich. These people are not tested in any way, even by a famous thermometer. And what's the difference between a patient who comes back to Poland by bus or bus, or a patient who drives, from the one who flies? Now that we're running background checks on people who come back on airplanes, I think all those who come back on buses, buses, all car communications should be monitored.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u57	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have repeatedly had the opportunity to answer your interpellations, exactly you, so I'm glad you asked me these questions orally today. But if necessary, I will also answer in writing. Thus, above all, the guidelines have been updated because the epidemiological situation has changed. Previously, we only had fires in China, and right now we have fires in Italy. The Chief Sanitary Inspector has prepared guidelines for POZ doctors and they have been sent to these doctors. We also audited the equipment. Indeed, all hospitals had to report to the voivodships about their state of security. Personal protective equipment... We're talking medical personnel here. I've been to several SORs, I've been to an ambulance station, also here in Warsaw, and I've seen hospitals prepared, where this equipment is located, for example. there's a secure transfer of a patient who volunteered for the S.R. so that he doesn't have any contact with the rest of the patients. This is done as recommended in these procedures. We've also launched What I've been talking about before The procedure for completing equipment, which for various reasons may not be sufficient quantity, either in hospitals, whether in ambulances or in the S.R., from the Material Reserve Agency. At the moment, these facilities report to us needs and all of this is being transmitted to these centres on an ongoing basis. 'Cause we know that means like this wear out pretty fast. As far as laboratory testing is concerned, we have adopted such a philosophy that we examine people who are actually suspected and who are being examined by a physician of infectious diseases. And he's the one who's directing this research right now. We do not want this study to be so common, because as we see, as we know from observations not only in China, but also in Italy, not always the study that is done and at this point gives a negative result... In a moment, the patient may turn out to have this Coronavirus, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u59	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Ewa Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Are there any food warehouses where this food will later be transferred to such closed zones when the epidemic breaks out and an area is quarantined? My next question is this: in connection with the stationing in the territory of the Republic of Poland, does the government provide for their use in the event of an outbreak or panic in order to maintain order? And my third question: what are the actions of the Polish government against other countries, e.g. Belgium, Brussels? Is there any coordination between these actions on the part of the European Union? Is there any standard in force in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u61	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, well, we don't expect the U.S. military to help us with our problem. We have our own soldiers, our own army, which, if necessary, will join these actions. We know that this week large American military exercises will begin in Poland, but it is kind of a purely military issue. If there is such a threat And we have an epidemiological plan for the whole country. In order to avoid the spread of the virus, we will really have to isolate certain areas, and the people who will be isolated will certainly be provided with basic products, whether sanitary or food. As far as the European Union is concerned, I attended the European Union Health Ministers meeting two weeks ago. It is the preparation and exchange of information that is very important to us. It is important that, as countries of the European Union, we exchange information on our preparations, resources, but also the cases that arise. As the situation has changed over the last two weeks, yesterday, the Minister of Health Łukasz Szumowski asked the Commissioner to re-establish such a summit of the European Union's health ministers so that we could also agree on this close and close cooperation at European Union level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u64	Thank you very much. Listening to this debate, I am glad that the virus is apolitical, although I am generally not happy that it has ever occurred, because, as you know, it could be the cause of a pandemic, an epidemic. And this is, Dear Senators, our common goal to prevent this from happening. I'll say that we've already talked about it at the Senate Health Committee meeting. Life shows that patients with suspicion of infection with this virus go to SORs and go to POZ. It's not as you wish it goes to the infectious disease wards, which also do not fully secure the possibility of isolation. An example of yesterday: the hospital in Cieszyn, which has a branch of infectious diseases, has already been mentioned today, wrote a letter to the local SORs that it is not possible to adapt to these not yet procedures, not guidelines, just those, let's say, recommendations that you recommend. That's why life shows it's different, and these people are gonna hit... My first question is: do you know that there are emergency bars that have bought almost all masks, advanced ones, not fizeline, and that is why there are no masks available in pharmacies, or in health and safety stores for Poles who would like to buy them? That's the first question. Because I'm in contact with doctors who work in emergency services. They clearly say that there is no cooperation, no meetings, no crisis staff, and that they can actually use in everyday practice only what happens every day, i.e. dealing with a person infected with various other diseases. Second question. Did you study the possibility of buying rapid tests, financed e.g. by the Minister of Health, because there is an extraordinary situation and we want prevention to identify normal flu? Because the symptoms of a patient who may be suspected of being infected with a coronavirus are the same symptoms as normal flu. And perhaps pre-selection by doing rapid tests to identify the flu would then allow doctors to use some prevention and prevention. And the third question is, how do you... This is a question from anesthesiologists who are terrified and do not have such clear procedures. Here I no longer repeat those questions that have been asked many times. Will the treatment and diagnostics of persons for whom infection with this virus will be confirmed be financed? I presume that the cost of such isolation is about PLN 7,000. And please do not reply in writing here, but in writing, if I may ask you, how many places are there in Poland and Silesia for respiratory isolation. Because there's different data here, too. You said 300 places, I know there's only nine in Silesia. I know that today, your chief of staff from one such large facility, from the intensive surveillance department, is going to the voivodeship to establish it more closely. Doctors themselves ask for specific procedures when it comes to how they should proceed. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u65	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, indeed, the emergency staff... In fact, there is one staff who is in our ministry, bringing together representatives of all services, but also representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the MON. We meet in one place and work practically all the time. These are the people who exchange... I know that today there is a teleconference with voivodship offices, where all hospital directors, directors of the National Health Fund, voivodship health inspectors will be present. And all the doubts that you were talking about, how it's going to be financed, how to fill in the hardware shortages... although a few days ago, we sent an explanatory motion to the hospitals to know what number and what these hospitals need. This will be updated from the reserves of the Material Reserve Agency. We're just waiting for these units to report to us. We immediately implement them. As far as flu tests are concerned, actually, like I said, we're in the flu season. Unfortunately, the number of Poles who are vaccinated against flu... Some say it's less than 3%. That's very little. I personally recommend it to all of us. I think such an initiative also in the Senate, among senators next flu season should take place. We haven't heard from anyone at the moment that the flu test is missing. So they are and they are carried out quickly, this is a strip test. And I think this preliminary diagnosis that shows that it's the flu is very important. I know that whether it's in the S.R.s or in the family doctors' offices, such tests are performed. As far as funding is concerned, we are after talking to the Prime Minister. Money will not be an obstacle when it comes to taking care of the health of Poles. Every money will be run so that not only do we feel safe, but all our actions are in subjection to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I absolutely agree with you that peace is needed in this situation, but I also believe that Poles will be more calm when they know that the state administration is acting prudently and quickly. Unfortunately, I must say here that your comments at some points do not increase this confidence. An hour ago, for example. He said that there are 381 cases of illness across Europe, while from the Italian press this morning we know that there are 435 cases in Italy alone. So there are a lot more of them all over Europe. You also expressed a very disturbing opinion that you had changed your approach after 3 weeks because the situation had changed. Well, it certainly could have been predicted that the coronavirus would at some point go to Europe and it would be a large scale, as it happened a week ago in Italy. And now two questions. Why didn't you put those procedures into practice before you said you put them in place yesterday and the day before yesterday? It's about checking at airports, text messages sent to those returning from Italy, information on websites. Certainly there were no such procedures on the last weekend, but it is known that these outbreaks in northern Italy were detected on the previous Thursday, and on Friday there were already dozens of people infected, people who had been diagnosed with the virus, and on Saturday there were already dozens of people. The absolute majority of those about 100,000 Poles who had a rest, from Mazowieckie, Zachodniopomorskie, Dolnośląskie and Opole came back on Saturday and Sunday, maybe on Monday. You only introduced it yesterday and the day before yesterday. Why? I would ask you to answer that question. And the other. We agree, and I'm glad we agree. The biggest risk is that this group of dozens, probably even about 100,000 Poles, who in recent days, returned from northern Italy on the previous weekend and were able to deal with, may have had contact with infected people. Meanwhile, you say Mr. Inspector Pinkas says that those who have no symptoms are to wait two weeks and isolate themselves. Why can't it be that people with no symptoms of the symptoms you've explained it, that's clear Who have returned from northern Italy, have the opportunity to test themselves? Why isn't it? There it is. There it is, there it is. They do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u69	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as for the data I gave, I have a printout from 8:00 a.m., this is the data of the ECDC World Organization. She's so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... I don't think the senator wants to hear my answer, but okay. Mr. Senator, please... Marcin... Ladies and gentlemen, those files you gave us were from the press. I'll give you the data from the official ECDC message. Maybe this data's just kind of passing away... But I have official records, maybe they're different at the moment. It's from 8:00 p.m. and that's what I gave you. What happened in Italy... We had procedures for citizens, tourists or passengers of planes that came to us from Wuhan, so they came to us from China. For several days now we know that passengers, people potentially infected will be much more, because, as I said, Poles are very happy to rest in Italy. And that's why we put in place a monitoring procedure for those who are coming back from Italy. Once again, if we have no symptoms, but we were in Italy, we should control ourselves. I know that people like that report to doctors, and doctors report to us... These are the questions that have arisen. If such persons report to the health inspector... the health inspector has the option, he will make the right decision and this patient will be sent to a 14-day quarantine and will receive a medical discharge, which means he will not simply lose money. This is agreed with the president of the Social Security Office. So that it is possible for people who do not show any symptoms at the moment, but there is a danger that they may be potentially infected. I think Poles can take advantage of this possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I am concerned about the time you need to prepare for all of this. The chief health inspector said that on 9 January he pointed out that there was a threat. It is also worrying, as Mrs Libera-Malecka said, that the bill submitted by the opposition on 14 February to this day does not even have its number. I'm only talking about this because I would like you not to underestimate what the opposition is asking for and what the opposition recommends. My questions are about something else. Well, the whole world is looking for a vaccine today so that we can be protected from the even greater spread of this virus. I would like to ask if you are prepared to buy this vaccine at the moment when such a vaccine is available. The purchase of tests shows that... Poland stood in line and waited for these tests to be used, which certainly contributed to the increased risk of spreading this virus in Poland. It's insanely important that we be... Senator, we don't have a confirmed case of the virus at the moment, so we don't have any spread... ...prepared for it. I'm asking if you're prepared. I mean, you talk about it all the time. I'd like to ask if there's a possibility that... Oh, my God, listen to what you're talking about. ...to fix what we didn't complete right now. I'm sure you're in contact with the people you've been testing, the ones you've been testing, the ones that came back from Italy. I would not want us to focus only on tourists returning from Italy, because this is not the only direction from which infected people can come. I would like to ask you if you are thinking about how to help those you recommend rightfully. She will remain at home for 2 weeks after her return, formalising the justification for her absence from work, at school. Some companies will need such formalization. You have to help these people, somehow support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u73	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I repeat for the second time that we have taken this very seriously from the very beginning, only the scale of this epidemic was completely different than it is now. Back then it was China, it was a dozen thousand kilometers away. Right now we've got this a few hundred kilometers away, so... we've had to adjust the current procedure to this situation. About... Excuse me, Minister, please don't explain yourself like that. We all know that planes fly and these distances don't matter today, none at all. But I don't understand the relationship, Senator. You're still explaining that the earlier situation... I'm translating... I didn't. I'm not explaining myself. I'm translating. ...that the epidemic was further away from us, about a hundred kilometers from us. The procedures are... Today, kilometers really don't matter. They do. Good. I'm always calm, so I won't argue, Senator. As far as the vaccine is concerned, the vaccine is now gone. At the European Union Health Ministers' Summit, we talked about this vaccine, the so-called one. the purchase of a central European Union. We are prepared to make such a purchase. As soon as such a vaccine appears, Poland will definitely be on this program. According to experts, unfortunately, the time of arrival of such a vaccine is several months, some say that a year and a half is needed when de facto it can be used, used, which means it will be practically the next infected season. What you said about the last question... Indeed, if we report to the State Sanitary Inspection and she makes such a decision, the sick can get L4 released and stay at home.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Always calm and carefully. Minister, I'm gonna ask the first question I wasn't gonna ask, but now I'm gonna see that the most text messages I get are, as far as the question is concerned, whether or not, because I think the answer has been going through, that no, then why, there are monitored cars coming back from areas that are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're talking about Italy. Then we'd have to close the borders. No, Minister... Answer me, because these people are watching... I've heard it, but these questions are repeated, so if the Minister could answer it in one sentence, it would calm... Sure, sure. ...those people. 'Cause if I text them back that there's already been an answer, they're gonna say, "We're really asking you to ask that question." And now two of my questions. Minister, if you can ask for a written reply on this map of the preparation of the Pomeranian Voivodeship: where, how many places, which hospital, etc... I would like to ask this, Minister, because I will take it from the Minister, I will simply go there and talk and then report to the Minister. What I'm trying to say is that it's not really just that you have knowledge. As your emissary, I will go and confront you because I have information that some things look a little different, and I will write a report like this for the Minister. I'm not gonna write it on Twitter or Facebook, I'm gonna write it to the Minister. That's one thing I'd ask for when it comes to these preparations. And the second, the technical thing. Minister Pinkas says this: a person who has symptoms has returned from northern Italy, takes a telephone call and calls the health centre. The health department says, "Okay, you're eligible for an infectious ward at X-Hospital." And this person says, "I'm asking for an ambulance." And now I mean, technically, this ambulance: is there a time for this? Do you have any idea how many of these ambulances you're going to need? Because I can't imagine all of a sudden those ambulances that are gonna ride with these people. I'd like to get an answer on that. So that this person doesn't go into that good manual and then waits two weeks for the ambulance to come and drive her to the hospital. Well, that would be tragic. If such cases occur, then this intricate plan for getting into an emergency unit in a designated hospital will be limping and it will be horribly, adversely affecting the atmosphere of the fight against the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u77	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you for these questions, Senator. To monitor all cars, we'd have to put in a border check. Such questions and diwags arise not only in our country, but also throughout the European Union. So far, no one's decided to do it. We were considering that at the border to every car entering the city, it would be possible to read the flyer, only with such a border traffic, unfortunately there would be great traffic in a moment, so we took this purely texting road, because everyone has a phone, it is possible to receive a text message. But I told you we put it on trains, where it's easier, where the conductor can hand out flyers like this. It's a little worse in border traffic. Well, if the situation requires it, then... As we hear in the European Union, some countries want to close borders and introduce border traffic. We don't have that kind of plan right now. It's a good question of how transport... If we're back in the country and we have these symptoms, which means we're potentially ill, the easiest thing is to notify medical emergency. I'm just saying, in a situation where we have symptoms, we have shortness of breath, we have a cough, we feel really bad. Because if we call medical rescue for trivial matters... If we want to go to an infectious hospital just to be examined by a doctor, and we're feeling good, we're getting in our car and we're going to that hospital. But it can happen that there are lonely, elderly people who don't have the opportunity. That is why we are expanding here when it comes to transport and family doctors, so that transport works not only in the daytime but also in the evening. It'll probably be extended to evening hours. The NFZ promised that there would be additional resources for the patient to be transported in this way. But I don't think it should be a rule that since I was in Italy, it's imperative that I take special transport to an infectious hospital. I'm sure it's not a group transport, not a bus, not a train, but if I have another option, if one of my family can take me there, then of course it is. Mrs. Marshal, one more thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u79	Here you go, one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u80	Minister, I understand you're betting on this routine. If anybody has these symptoms, it will be agreed by phone that everything indicates it, and it is a person who can get in alone, has someone to drive her, you will, I don't know, encourage, explain that it is better for her to go alone, then they will take her there. When it comes to single persons who are not able to reach them, they will be transported by ambulance. Is that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u81	I wouldn't want anybody who wants to go to an infectious hospital to use this transport because the ambulance... I'm sorry to ask, but... Physically, we can't do it. We also have a plan B prepared, but it will be implemented when there is indeed an epidemic in Poland. Then this transport will also be carried out by other services.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u82	One sentence. Minister, plans B in Poland are not familiar, so maybe you should call it something else. I just want to... An epidemic plan. That's it, Minister. In conclusion, you can say that you recommend that single people who are not able to communicate be preferred when it comes to taking an ambulance. Anyone who can't get to the hospital.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have those questions. At a meeting of the Health Committee 3 weeks ago, the Minister said that in countries with well developed medicine, it would be enough to observe, carry out studies, and we know whether a patient is potentially a carrier or is suffering from Coronavirus. At the moment, we recommend a 14-day observation, just like in those countries we were talking about at the time. Then the Minister said that in those countries it's 14 days, and we only have three days. Has anything changed in this regard? That's the first question. Two. When it comes to incubation of the virus and how long this virus can survive outside the body, is there still such knowledge that it is a very sensitive micro-organism? Or is it that we know that he can survive longer? This is about goods from China, things that come at some time. And then we were reassured that it wasn't dangerous, because this virus is dying very quickly. And one last thing. I'd like to know what they're going to be... unfortunately, the President has signed a bill amending the bill on the Chief Sanitary Inspector and there will be changes in the health inspection. According to the Act of 1 April, some changes will enter into force, the other will enter into force in July. If the Minister had briefly said or written the answer to the question of what changes it would be... I'm asking because there's a fear that as long as the inspection is prepared in its structures right now, this one, you might say, verticalization... Will it be any personal changes, will it be organizational changes, or will you stop at very small changes so that this system, which is now operating, can simply continue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u85	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Indeed, as far as epidemiology is concerned, in the case of this virus, which is a new virus, we are still in the research phase. In fact, there are new reports every day about how it behaves as it is replicated by living organisms. This is why the World Health Organisation continues to support this 14-day period. That's changed too, some people thought it was shorter. He's 14 days old, but there's one report too. Only one thing, and it's not checked. It was only after 21 days that this virus appeared. So the scientists aren't entirely in agreement here. I've been talking to a national consultant for infectious diseases and an epidemiology consultant many times over the last few weeks. For the virus to multiply, you need a living organism, and it won't survive without it. When it comes to how many hours he lives on objects, it was a great concern about those packages that come to us from China. Well, epidemiologists say it takes a few hours, three hours, four, five hours, depending on the conditions in which this package is. But no longer. So there's no danger that this virus will live on such objects for a long time. As far as health inspection is concerned, this pionization would really be useful right now, because we see that management in these situations of purely crisis... I'm talking about a situation where there's been an outbreak. Vertical management greatly facilitates the issue of certain regulations, but also enforcement of these regulations. So I think that this verticalization, as far as the purely organisational aspect is concerned, will work in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u87	Thank you very much. Now I have questions for the Minister. The first question is this. Well, it's well known that it's recommended that those people who suspect they're infected report to hospitals, but it's also known that people will report to first contact doctors, because that's the practice, that's what happens. Therefore, I have a question as to whether first contact doctors are equipped with personal protective equipment and are trained to make such a preliminary selection. Well, I think a penny, most people with these symptoms are gonna report to these doctors. That's my first question. Second question: Is there additional funds for infectious hospitals to cover the extraordinary costs of treatment and care for the sick? Well, they're actually gonna be the most burdened if it's necessary for the sick to be hospitalized. And the third question. I would like the Minister to respond in writing. Senator Gorgon-Komor has already asked about the Śląskie voivodship, but I have this question: how many places of isolation and stay of the sick, people infected are prepared on a national scale and how many additional resources has the government allocated to organizing such a stay, medical care and food for people who will need to be isolated? The answer to this last question is in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I've already partially answered that question. As far as POZ doctors are concerned, they have been given quite detailed instructions on how to proceed. As far as personal protective measures are concerned, they are the same as for influenza virus. The flu epidemic has been going on since October 1st, so I can't imagine family doctors or hospital doctors not having access to such drugs. It's in the legal interest of our employer that we as doctors be available to him. It is the employer's responsibility to provide personal protection. As I have already said, if there are problems with supplementing these measures, because they have exhausted themselves, problems with purchasing, because there is an increased demand for these measures on the market, please contact us with such information and we will continue to supplement these measures. As for the question of additional resources for infectious troops, I will answer briefly: yes, they will. We are also considering this possibility to prepare a so-called pool. empty beds, which means waiting on standby. For those empty beds that will wait for any patients, the NFZ will also pay, which means the hospital will not lose on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u89	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am very glad that in this misfortune the senator with sensitivity is a minister. It calms me a bit, because each of us who came here is at least responsible for this place where he was chosen, and you, Minister, are responsible for the whole country. I have a question. As in life, always in economics, and especially in health care, money counts. Answer me this with your hand on my heart: will you need additional resources? If additional resources are needed, what measures? Perhaps President Kleina, in his excellence and wisdom, will find something in the budget because we still have this budget to approve. My concern and my question, Minister, come from knowing what a tragic situation is in county hospitals. That's why it's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u91	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for your warm words, but we know very well that emergency situations require exceptional money. I have spoken with the Prime Minister many times, who is keenly interested in the epidemiological situation which is currently in Poland. It declares that from its reserve it will transfer any amount of money that will be needed to cover the additional expenses that we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u94	Thank you very much, Marshal. However, I would like this budget issue, which has already been raised, to sustain, namely, I would like to ask, Minister, if you know what amount is planned in the budget of the state... well, of course not for the fight against the coronavirus, because I do not suppose that you, when designing the budget many months ago, anticipate this epidemic, but for this kind of threat. Because, I understand, in a rationally managed country crisis situations are envisaged, unfortunately also those that can end in a tragedy similar to those in some countries that are related to another virus. That's one thing. Second question. Now, after three weeks... Because this is where the phrase "3 weeks" keeps popping up, that we're smarter after 3 weeks. You should have been smart three weeks earlier and earlier, but okay, I accept... After these 3 weeks, when we have more knowledge, as the Minister himself said, you anticipate and consider that the amount reserved I'd like to hear what this is. Is it sufficient to combat such crises, or will it be necessary to increase or amend the budget while still working on the budget? Another case, more specific. It's about units or health care facilities. We are aware that an increasing number of health care institutions, especially hospitals, are at risk of closure, and that branches are already closing. The number of institutions at risk in Poland is more than 500, and if Let's hope not, knock on the door. There's going to be an epidemic, so we're going to need more than fewer facilities. I would like to ask what you say and whether the government takes this into account in its preparations for a possible fight against a deteriorating situation. I will leave this on the side, because we are taking this debate very seriously and, above all, the subject very seriously, but I would like to point out in one sentence that the Minister could, however, even later, in the cockroaches, well, as a reminder of his colleague, your chief inspector, because sending people back in the 21st century in the face of such a threat to the knowledge of their grandmother and grandfather... That's the treatment. It's not just because not all of us have grandparents and grandmothers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u95	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, Senator. Well, as always in life, money is very important. Without it, it's hard to take action. Here the funds will come from 2 sources, from the reserve and from the National Health Fund, because we know that only these patients, suspected of being ill or ill, go to infectious hospitals. I know that the funds from the NFZ will be much larger, directed in this direction. If necessary, additional branches will be converted into infectious wards That's what I'd say; let's knock it off, but we have to assume that too. It's those hospitals that get that money just as much as infectious hospitals. And this is definitely more money. I'm not gonna talk about closing and opening. Such cases are also, only these closed branches are much less than newly opened. So we have to weigh that, too. It is not that some troops disappear from the map, and others do not arise because they do not. Some departments are shut down and new ones are created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u97	Thank you very much. And Senator Agnieszka... Mrs. Marshal, may I ask? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u98	Let's take this seriously. If we're talking about such an important matter in the course of... I can give you specific amounts in writing, Senator. Well, we're talking about it while we're working on the state budget. I can't imagine the Minister of Health doesn't know the amount we're talking about right now, not the amount we talked about six months ago or a year ago, and she's out of her mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u99	We will give specific amounts in writing. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u101	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, before I ask the Minister, I'd like to... There is no inspector, but I would like to thank the inspector for the words of gratitude he sent to the Senate Marshal for the fact that you could give us this information today. And I say this in the context of the beginning of this meeting, when this proposal was made and from that side of the room it was said that it was politics, a political struggle. I think some people have been blinded by this policy. However, safety, peace, health and the lives of citizens are seen in different categories. These senators weren't at the beginning of the meeting today, and they're still not there. I think the moment of shame and reflection has come, I hope. And that's all the comment. Minister, I have a heartfelt request for information... I'm more concerned with prevention. Let's hope that plan B never comes true. My question is... Do you have any information, any reported demand from local authorities? Are they reporting that... do they know that not everyone is going to read the ministry's information that not everyone may be going to call the hotline? Do they call for any leaflets, information campaigns, or disinfectants? I'm talking about public buildings. Do you have reports like that? If you don't, then... what are you planning? Is there a plan that when this happens, because it can happen, then from top to bottom, you will centrally hand over to local governments... I'm asking for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u102	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I'm glad I'm... already the fifth term in the Senate. They've always been here, and I hope they'll always be here, talking in substance, because that's how it should be in this House. Sometimes a little sarcasm was called the Chamber of Reflection, but I think at times this reflection should really come in handy for all of us. And I'm glad that today we're talking without emotion and in a very specific way. Indeed, preventing the occurrence and transmission of either flu virus or coronavirus virus is similar. I have already talked about this promotional hand-washing action or mouth-covering, not especially for older people in large clusters, where the possibility of infection with these viruses is much greater. In addition to the web action, we have also launched the action in the media, where the boards will appear, how we wash our hands, but also information where we can report, if we have any doubts and what we should do about it, because we know that the worst information that can be, is false information, sometimes passed from mouth to mouth. So we want this information to be reliable, also in social communicators, on popular Facebook, but also, I think, on Twitter. I think if anybody wants to, they'll get to that information because there's a lot of different ways to get to them. For today, we didn't have any signals from local governments that they would have reported... It is known that county hospitals are the responsibility of the elders, but it is the director of the hospital on behalf of the leading authority that comes to us with possible needs and we take these needs into account. They will be implemented on an ongoing basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. As there is a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at 1 p.m., I manage the recess by 2.30 p.m. After the break, we will return to the information of the Minister of Health and ask further questions, because there are still a lot of people in line. I have one more question. Did the Minister find the information? But it's called a break. I'll read the message again. I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union will be held at the end of the Senate session at 1 p.m. in room 102 in the Sejm building. Information on future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom will be presented by Michel Barnier, Head of the Task Force on Relations with the United Kingdom. The chairman of the committee invites all senators to attend the meeting, including those who are not members of the committee. I'm ordering a recess until 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 57 to 14 minutes 32]] I'm reopening the session. Question Józef Zając. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators to take their seats, and I ask the senators of the secretaries... They're already at the president's table. But the Minister isn't here... Oh, there's the minister. There it is, there it is. You're the minister. It's close here. Senator Joseph the Hare. Is Senator Joseph the Hare here? There isn't. So we're gonna... But he's definitely... Who is it? Senator Hibner. Senator Hibner, that's right. Is it? Yes, it is. There it is. Please take your seats. More questions... We continue to inform the Minister of Health on the epidemiological situation related to the spread of Coronavirus, the fourth item on the agenda. And we return to asking the questions of Minister Waldemar Krasce. We continue to ask questions. I ask Senator Jolanta Hibner to ask you a question. Thank you, sir, because I already asked the inspector a question. On break. There you go, Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about the legal aspects of the possible outbreak of Coronavirus. Namely about the rights, or actually more responsibilities of the patient in a situation where we would actually be dealing with an epidemic. Can the State and if so apply direct coercion in what circumstances?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u106	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is about direct coercion, that is, coercion of treatment or quarantine, isn't it? Indeed, the lawyers spoke to us at the ministry about this, because we originally wanted to extend the law, to add Coronavirus where these diseases are listed, for which it is mandatory. But the lawyers generally said we didn't have to change that. At the moment, by administrative route, the inspector may issue such an order that the patient should be hospitalized or subjected to quarantine. So physical coercion is possible? Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara... You don't have a senator. There isn't. Rafał the locksmith. Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this debate is not only an information debate, but also part of the fight against the virus, because society looks at this place as a place to provide the most reliable information about what is happening in Poland. My concern about this debate was whether everyone would weigh the words properly during the debate, whether we would be affected by emotions that could turn the atmosphere of the country upside down later. It's not about the political dimension, it's about the rational behaviour of people at risk, and it's about whether they have access to balanced information, to calm information. You can... There's no problem with that to show another casuistic situation and ask if the government is prepared for it. I can take it out of my sleeve, describe a few situations like this, that there will be a confusion... It's a deliberate infection, isn't it? Is it possible to prepare for this? But should we discuss this, or should we have some anxiety in the atmosphere and show irregularities in the debate? It appeared in the threads that you raised, twice the question that someone flew through Munich, someone flew through Berlin and there arrived passengers from northern Italy were not monitored, not checked. Minister, in this connection, the question is whether there are any pan-Europeans, such as those guarded by the European Commission, by the European Union After all, we are one organism at the moment, and this matter is perhaps the most important, the most priority Legal mechanisms, proposals, solutions, expert groups at European Union level that could support us in this problem we face? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u110	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Guidelines That Appear They are updated on an ongoing basis. Of course, we are immediately implementing, at the moment all our procedures are also based on these guidelines of the World Health Organisation. The European Union does not seem to have such mechanisms as to dictate something to European countries in terms of prevention in individual countries, preventing the spread of Coronavirus. We have an exchange of information on our epidemiology and epidemiology in other countries, and that is the main topic at the moment. I know that next week a summit of European Union health ministers will be held again, where perhaps such guidelines or general recommendations for the European Union countries will emerge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm being asked by pediatric clinic doctors about how organized it is to be able to take children into infectious wards right now. I'm talking about the Silesian voivodeship, where there is no possibility of taking children into an infectious ward at the moment. The nearest hospital to receive children, in Krakow, no longer accepts them. Parents are told to leave their children at home and watch, but their parents' patience is unfortunately exhausted, because a recommendation to treat their children by means of a real threat is not adequate information for them. We have received messages to schools, but they are very enigmatic. Therefore, in line with what ministers suggest Don't get emotional, I'm asking you to give us a little information about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u114	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, it was about infectious troops or children's infectious hospitals... It's about the infant infectious wards. Which means hospitals with children's infectious wards. I don't know what the situation is right now in the Silesian Voivodeship. As for beds that we are most interested in at the moment, i.e. beds in infectious wards where we have an active respiratory protection system, in Poland there are 60 such beds for children, and as for the contact protection system, there are 135 of them. I'm talking about hospitals with children's infectious wards right now, but every child's ward has a solitary facility where we can run this contact system for the baby. The good news is that we don't have reports of children falling into coronavirus. Even if they do, they go by without a sign. It's a certain property of this virus, scientists don't really know why yet... And the next question... I didn't write it down and I didn't... If you could, Senator, repeat them... I'm sorry. Next... Could you repeat that second question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u116	Could you repeat the question, senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u117	Where and how parents can... Oh, right. ...get information... Now. ...about the availability of beds?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u118	During our debate, a meeting was held between the health inspector and, in fact, representatives of the health inspector with the curators and school heads, where information was given on how school heads should behave in the situations in question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u120	Minister, I apologize again for my emotions. And respect for peace, really honest. But understand me. If you're in that fire, you get emotional. Not with everything you say, I agree, but congratulations on your calm and self-control. I have specific questions. Doesn't saying we don't have a virus mean we don't have a virus, because it's what you said. Did we do 350 tests in a 38 million-dollar country? If I understand correctly. 350 tests is very little, isn't it? The Italians did research, and there's a lot of these things. Isn't that because we're not doing our research? Just a quick question. Another one. They're calling me and texting people who have been bought on vacation. I know you're the Minister of Health, but I mean, are there any regulations that say travel agents... Because people are scared. You wrote to me, who spent 7,000 zlotys at the travel agency to go to Italy, but wants out. What's he gonna do? Is the office obliged to return the money or not? You may not know this, but I'm asking you a question because maybe there's some information. Another quick question. Could local governments buy tests at their own expense? I'll tell you why. Because in the case of this city from Lubuskie voivodeship, whose name I will not mention... Let's say it has 50,000 inhabitants, and 10 people come to it from a really heavily threatened area, which is right next to the red zone. Self-government without any problem could pay 5,000 zlotys for the sake of peace, so that these people would be tested, but not cause panic. Is there any way the local government could buy out these tests? Just one more quick question. I got a call from Gorzów Wielkopolski, from the voivodship hospital, that they were ready from Monday to the study, but something I'm not a specialist, I'm not a doctor. They're missing it. They say that 450,000 zlotys would cost them full readiness and research. Is such money possible to obtain? And who would you turn to for that money? One last question. What to do when you know about people who might pose a threat? I told that kid at the clinic. A mother with a child who came from a really dangerous area went to the clinic, didn't tell anyone about it. Even the doctor didn't know that. She went off with symptoms of flu, the doctor examined... I have information from the lady's surroundings. Is there any way to monitor people who may pose a threat? I'm not talking about forcing them, but for example. to influence them so that they wanted to be more careful, and to be monitored in some way. I'm talking about a small town, 50 grand, where it's easier to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u121	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, well, emotions are needed, especially when we talk about such important matters, but we need to tone them down, because we are being watched by Poles and this message that reaches them must be substantive and calm. I'm gonna start from the end with people monitoring. Well, I don't think that's gonna happen. We live in a democratic state in the European Union, so there is no monitoring as such at the moment. However, I appeal, like the rest of the country, that if anyone was, let us not hide it, because it is not only in the interests of this child and his family, but also in the interests of the general public. Birzów Wielkopolski is probably outside the six laboratories to be prepared, but I know he's in the next order, so I think he'll be ready for these tests this week too. At the moment, the research we're doing is going to the next question about the number. We do it in cases where the doctor is convinced that there is a danger. Could local authorities study such tests? I think they're about to show up... Finance. Yeah, finance. ...commercial companies that will have such tests. I'm just thinking about the credibility of these tests. At the moment on the market many companies offer various kinds of tests, from Western Europe to China, all of Asia. So, when we decided to buy the tests, we had to examine their credibility, whether their results were reliable, because if these tests were not reliable, if false positive results were found, unfortunately this would have had consequences in the form of great panic and verification of these tests. However, if positive results appear in these voivodship laboratories during the tests, they will be verified in these 2 reference centres, i.e. in Warsaw in PZH and in the infectious hospital. There is also a recommendation from the WHO to possibly renew the study in Germany, where it is a laboratory recommended by the World Health Organization. And then there's these travel agencies. Do you know anything about this? I had a case of a friend who was going on a trip to the U.S., got a certificate from a doctor that it might be... and the company gave him the money back, but I think there must be a record in the contract that we're signing, and most of the time not reading it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u124	Minister, I am very brief because I do not find it satisfactory, although I thank you for it, your answers to my key question. Since last Thursday, it has been known in Italy that a serious outbreak of Coronavirus is erupting, why did you introduce these extraordinary measures only yesterday and the day before yesterday, as you said yourself. Why the 5-, 6-day delay? I'm gonna ask for that answer in writing. I also have an appeal for you to send this package of information you are talking about, including text messages, but not only to those who are now returning from Italy. It can be technically done. Also to those who returned from Italy last week, e.g. since last Friday. We need to find out if this is technically feasible. Certainly, operators can do that. Okay. They'll just collect the data and send it. So I have this appeal to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u125	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u126	Yeah, I'm gonna answer that in writing and, of course, we're gonna see if it's technically possible to do that. In my opinion, I agree with the senator, it will be a possibility, so we'll consider it and eventually send it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I repeat my question, or, in fact, my request, because that is not what Minister Pinkas has completely referred to. I mean information channels, which would send a message to citizens about how much more prudently or not to use generally available means that mask the symptoms of various types of viral infections, including headaches, runny noses, muscle pains, fever, bone and joint pains. This is common practice in some social groups. In order for there to be no absenteeism at work, such medicines are accepted. It seems to man that he is healthy because he is well, and yet he is a perfect host of all kinds of diseases, which, in the current situation, during the flu season, but also when dealing with various channels that the coronavirus can get into our country... Increasing information and taking into account this information, making it widely available, even through SMS, is particularly important in my opinion. I ask you to answer whether it is possible for such information to be universal, information about a bad impact on the current situation of precisely such measures that mask the symptoms of diseases, including viral diseases.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u129	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we're in a cold period and a flu period, so sometimes we feel bad, we have a high temperature. If we take an antipyretic medicine, in fact after a few days these symptoms go away, we can still function... So I'm sure it's an information action, yes, but to ban... We'd have to withdraw anti-inflammatory drugs from all available sites... I'm not talking about banning it, I'm telling you. ...antipyretic... Yes, I'm sure the information is, but, as I say, it's very difficult to separate it from a common cold from a flu infection or a coronavirus infection...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski:
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two questions. Italy was attacked in Europe. The question is whether it's a coincidence or, for example, whether it's a coincidence. This is due to increased tourist traffic, or simply Europe is - Yeah, in quotes. Attacked from the south, from countries with warmer climates, or even a virus, so to speak, reacts to the climate or its virulence... This is the first case. And two. What do you think, Minister, is this current discussion, actually the intensity of discussion and the involvement of various decision-making centres and the quite rapid acceleration, paradoxically it will not result in less information and more anxiety among citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u133	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, why Italy? Well, Italy is a popular place where many tourists come from all over the world, people move very easily and you can easily get infected in such large clusters of people with such a virus. I asked epidemiologists if there really was an impact of temperature or place... There's a certain seasonality when it comes to viral disease, there's an example of flu... There's a time when this epidemic is kind of turned on, there's a time when it's coming to a certain peak and then it's self-absorbed. Should we show that we are acting in this way? I think that for our citizens there is nothing worse than a lack of information, so we try to communicate our daily work, daily results and concerns through the media to Poles, because if this information was not available, everyone could sing that something bad was happening, and if we inform, then I think it works tones. What we're most afraid of is an explosion of panic. Then rational thinking is set aside somewhere on the side track, and we're only driven by emotions. I think this is the worst thing that could happen to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Mariusz Gromko.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for letting me know. As I have been following all this from the beginning, I can see that the Ministry of Health is doing a lot to prepare Poland to fight the dangers of the koravirus. I have also learned from today's information that we are still in contact with the health ministers of the countries of the European Union. And what do these contacts look like when it comes to our eastern neighbours? Or do we have direct contact, or are we monitoring what's going on out there? Because, as you know, this virus can get to us or threaten Poland from different directions, also from the eastern one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u137	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, indeed in the European Union we have a situation quite clear and simple, these information channels are being monitored very closely at the moment, information is being provided. We also have the information provided by the Chinese ambassador on an ongoing basis, we have a meeting like this, we exchange information about this threat. As far as the countries of the East are concerned, we have up-to-date information, whether from embassies or consulates, about Poles who live in these countries and at the same time we get information about the epidemiological situation in these countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u140	Thank you. I would like to ask if the Ministry has such an option planned to cooperate with private hospitals, clinics, companies, institutions that operate health-promoting activities if necessary or necessary. Well, I don't want to name a number of these companies so I don't do commercials. Which are well equipped with equipment, especially when it comes to rolling stock, ambulances, etc. The point is that, as a state health service, we will not be able to transport citizens to hospitals, as we have already mentioned here, but we will ask them to reach these points with their own means of transport. Is there such a contingency plan? We know. I'll say it again. That these institutions are well equipped with equipment. I also mean ventilators, car speakers and even employees, e.g. nurses who would not require such a long period of preparation for work with infected people as volunteers or others. Is there such a plan to use it if necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u141	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, yes, that's the idea. In crisis situations, when all hands are needed, it doesn't matter what entity it is, whose property it is. If necessary, if it serves Polish citizens, we will also address such entities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u143	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u144	I would like to say so quickly that it is good that this information policy has changed, i.e. I think we've gone from encouraging you to washing your hands and making sure that everything's okay... That's important too. ...to provide very accurate information. It's really been really good. I think if there's more information in the media, most of all, then more people will know about it. Well, I'm sorry, but if the head of the Chief Sanitary Inspector thinks the Poles are going on this website, let him see how many entrances a day. It's just some kind of beam. Poles, they're interested in the case. That's one thing. We need to organize an information campaign, that's what we're counting on. The second issue is cooperation with local governments. I get signals from my city that there is no such thing as yet, that the state services are not yet working sufficiently with local authorities at the level of education curatoria or at the level of various inspectors. But I also have a question. I'd like to ask... Maybe I'll say this: why is there a panic? No, among others. It's because people hear that masks aren't necessary for anything, because how does a doctor operate? It was the Minister who said: It's wearing a mask. Just so you don't infect the patient. Do not contaminate the operating field. Yeah, but people see ambulances that drive people who are suspected of being infected, see that the entire crew is dressed upstairs in masks, suits, gloves, etc. Such a Pole may think: aha, or health care is secure, they protect themselves, and they tell us that masks do not give anything. And I mean, they're bad at that kind of... Senator, please... I would like to ask the Minister why doctors or, for example, airport services, some services, are equipped with this, while people are told that it is not necessary at all, that only sick people should wear something like this, people who have some symptoms. And the second point, also relevant. Please explain... Because you recommended two weeks for quarantine, and we read in the sources about three weeks, 21 days. And the third, last question. Citizens may be concerned about that, too. If we get information that e.g. Israel has put in place quarantine for Italian visitors, quarantine, not temperature measurement, people are worried about us: why is it there and not with us? If there's information that schools have been shut down in Japan... Senator, please... I won't speak again later. If we hear that schools have been closed by the end of April, people wonder: why are children in danger in Japan, and we say that children are not actually sick or have minor symptoms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u145	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! We really try to provide this information as much as possible, we run new channels from day to day. Young people use the Internet much more than older people, so for older people there will be boards showing up on television during good viewing hours so that they know how to handle the situation. It's not just the washing of our hands, it's what we're focused on. I'm sure it's important, but it's still important to know where to report with what symptoms. This will certainly appear also in national media. When it comes to self-government... Well, as I say, today was a meeting with all the parole officers, so this information goes down to the school heads. I think the local authorities will be doing it too. The voivodship's security plan is the responsibility of the voivodship and it is the voivodship's responsibility to decide which safeguards will be taken in the given voivodship. Why are the health services wearing masks and the rest of them not? Ladies and gentlemen, if I'm a doctor, I have an ongoing contact with a number of people who are infected. We're not just talking about the coronavirus, we're talking about the others. We need to protect the entire Polish medical staff very much, because if... Let's remember what happened in China, where unfortunately many doctors got sick and even died. So we should protect this service. World Health Organisation guidelines These are not our guidelines. They do not categorically recommend wearing a mask, such as a typical, surgical one, because it does not really protect against infection with a coronavirus or even a flu virus. Coming to you through Warsaw, I did not see our citizens wearing such masks, even though we say the masks disappeared from the shops. So someone bought them, but they're not actually used. One scientific report came up, which was just about 21 days old. But it was one report that doesn't have confirmation in scientific literature at the moment, so we're based on what the World Health Organization recommends, which is that it's 14 days. There was something else... Israel, Japan. Coronavirus has already been found in these countries, so the treatment is different from where the virus is not. So that quarantine is certainly carried out in a different way. If the virus appears, the procedure will be slightly altered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the English and the Swiss have adopted the so-called. quick handling of those suspected... well, those who are sick. Namely, there is a hotline, as well as an ambulance is sent. And then the ambulance goes and examines; there's a quick reaction, but then there's surveillance, a full monitoring of the sick. He's also giving sick instructions. Did you analyze this option in the Ministry, i.e. including quick access to the patient and full surveillance? They say it's cheaper, and most of all, the sick don't have to go anywhere. And it's not contagious. It must be borne in mind, however, that there are 14 million people excluded from communication. If they don't have their own car, they don't have a way to get to the hospital or just to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u149	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, I wouldn't want the entire responsibility for delivering a potentially infected patient to an emergency room, because life is still going on, it's moving forward, so apart from the fact that there may be an epidemic of coronavirus in Poland... Yeah, we drive cars all the time, we work all the time, we have heart attacks, strokes. Yes? And an ambulance should get to these patients, too. We are considering another mode of transport that would only be intended for those patients who are suspected of being infected with this virus and who cannot access these facilities. This may be a little complicated because such transport must take place under quite specific conditions and then an ambulance disinfection must be carried out. It's gonna take a little bit of work to work out in these extreme situations. At the moment, emergency services are making such trips, and these patients are actually going to infectious hospitals. But on a larger scale, on a more massive... We'll have to think about it, figure it out. We have an idea to solve it in a different way, not with medical rescue forces, because then for the most in need, for example. participants in a road accident, this ambulance may not be available.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u151	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I join these earlier thanks. Thank you for this information, thank you for the government's actions In part, I described them in the speech I submitted to the minutes. Well, I have different experiences than Senator Zdrojewska when it comes to local governments, because I saw that this information actually goes very well... On the website there is comprehensive information, especially on the websites of district governments. I'd like to ask... [[I'm sorry, I didn't say...]] Excuse me... ...about self-government. I was talking about... About local governments... ...the voivodship authorities. Well, I'm sorry. About the voivodship... Then I'm sorry. Self-governments are doing very well on their own. You said the government that... But okay, it's not about driving a polemic. I'd like to ask you something. According to this state of knowledge, about the Coronavirus we now have. Last night, I read about the victims' age ranges... Coronavirus attacks with fatal outcome rather people in these higher age ranges, does not attack, and if so, to a lesser extent, children. I would like to ask what is the state of knowledge in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u153	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, indeed... Maybe not the victims, and those who died of coronavirus infection and complications that result from this disease are mainly elderly people, those who, apart from this infection, had other numerous diseases. Like I said, diabetics with respiratory problems or other problems, e.g. problems in the form of failure or chronic renal failure. The entire patho-mechanism of coronavirus infection is not fully tested yet. From observation, we can see that children go through it if they're infected, asymptomatic, they don't get sick. I haven't read anywhere about the death of a child caused by a coronavirus. And that's what's in all this good news. There's no research yet on why this is happening.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u155	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask another question? Mr. Senator... Andrzej Kobiak. ...Andrzej Kobiak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I try to listen attentively to what is said here in the Chamber, for example because of the fact that because of age and health I am probably in this group of higher risks. I am aware that in a few weeks it will not be the only indication of possible infection of contact with Italy or... but also with a citizen of another country, and maybe in Poland there will be sick people and this infection will be possible from anyone and anywhere. I understand that the procedure What I'm supposed to do is how I'm supposed to behave. Here's what I'm saying. If I feel some symptoms, either I'm supposed to go to a special hospital, or if it wasn't a coronavirus, which is another virus, to a normal clinic. And it's up to me to decide whether it's here or there. The simple question is: how does an average person distinguish the symptoms of coronavirus infection from the symptoms of another virus infection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u157	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We're talking about two different situations, right? At the moment, we do not have an established case of Coronavirus in Poland, i.e. we do not have a person who could infect others. Therefore, we recommend going to an infectious hospital only to those who have these symptoms plus were in China or Italy or had contact with the person who was there. If a coronavirus appears in Poland and one of us has had contact with this person or with another person who has had closer or further contact with this source of infection, then the procedure will be different. Then we will not take into account this factor of being in Italy or being in China, but the factor of contact with the person in whom we found the coronavirus. What are the other symptoms? There's no difference. I mean, Mr. Senator, that's the whole problem, that the first symptoms are very similar to high fever, myalgia, coughing, shortness of breath, breathing disorders.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u159	Thank you very much. And Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, because those who have decided to submit to such a quarantine have been a little confused by the information you provide, where they can obtain medical leave, have asked me to clarify it. Does this mean that they'll also get sick leave at epidemiologically-sanitary stations or sanitary-epidemiological stations? Because on the one hand you're saying that these people who have been released from medical treatment, all the time I'm talking about those who are quarantined, should go to a doctor, and on the other hand you're telling them not to go to a doctor. My question is: will they also get fired at sanitary and epidemiology stations?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u161	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, this is a very detailed question. Too bad there's no health inspector. But while he was still there, I just asked him. He said the release would be at the E.P.S. station. I don't really know how a station can make that kind of release. If you don't mind, I'd answer you in writing or possibly by telephone if you wanted that information. But I'm sure we'll give the media the kind of information it should be. I would ask you very much, Minister, to consider how this case could be resolved, because this is indeed a very uncertain situation for these people and it is uncertain for us too. I'm sure they shouldn't go to a doctor so that they don't infect any more patients. You're telling me not to report to the district because they're a threat... No, we're talking about that... no, if the patient should get a doctor's release, then that's why the discharge should work out personally or for example. Someone in his family... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But he's healthy. But if the health inspector put him in quarantine, that means he's been in contact with the coronavirus, so there's a danger that these symptoms may occur in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u163	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has also committed himself to providing a written reply. I'm about to read the senators' questions. I thank the Minister very much. And now I'm going to divide it into two groups, because some of the questions were to the chief health inspector... And these are the senators' questions: Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, Jolanta Hibner, Alice Zając, Krzysztof Słoń, Józef Zając... And to the Minister... The Minister undertook to provide written answers to the questions asked by: Beata Małecka-Libera, Krzysztof Brejza, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Marcin Bosacki, Adam Szejnfeld and Danuta Jazłowiecki. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of you... I'm gonna... ...he didn't vote. Senator Kwiatkowski's question was still asked. The answer's in writing, too. Who? The minister's office. So there was still a request for a written reply from Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Yeah, yeah. I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed has made his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Thank you, Minister, for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate has read the information on the epidemiological situation associated with the spread of Coronavirus. We begin to light up item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 78, and the report is published in print No 78 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft Print Resolution 78 was examined by the joint committees, by the Human Rights Committee and the Legislative Commission, today. At the beginning of the deliberations, the applicant's representative, authorised by the applicants, made several self-corrections to this printing, which clarified certain wordings, extended certain points. During the discussion, one amendment was tabled, which was accepted. Of course, there was a discussion, and I wouldn't discover America if I said it was a debate full of controversy, opinions were being expressed, let's say, far from me, so to speak. Following the adoption of the self-corrections, after taking into account these self-corrections and following the adoption of the amendment, the joint committees adopted the draft, which was presented to you in this revised printing, print No 78 S. The committees, of course, recommend that the High House adopt this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u165	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is very simple. This resolution is linked to the ongoing legislative procedure for amending the Act on the National Court Register. During the first reading, the committee voted to organise a public hearing. I have a question for the representative of the applicants: how many entities, persons have submitted to this public hearing at this time? When the deadline goes by and how many of these people... In other words, how much interest is there in this public hearing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u167	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u168	Mr. Senator, that's the question. not to me, but to Senator Bogdan Klich, who is responsible for preparing this public hearing. I'm gonna talk about one thing on this occasion. The KRS Act, as well as the public hearing, are not related to this resolution that we are debating today. Thank you. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u169	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u170	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask. Well, we're going to be discussing this relationship. I asked a very simple question about numbers. Do you have any information? 'Cause if you don't, I'm gonna go down to the committee and see what it's like.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u171	I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u172	Senator Stanisław Gogacz... You wanted to ask me a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u173	Yes, I also have a question, I think, in connection with the question asked by Senator Czerwinski. I already spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that the matter which is contained in this resolution is also contained in the draft law in print no. 50, i.e. the law on the National Court Register. It seems that the applicant's representative should comment on whether we should adopt resolutions in a situation where a draft law is drawn up. But I have a specific question. Namely, in the content of this resolution it is written that the authors demand This is set out in point 6 of the urgent action to implement the resolution of the three Supreme Court Chambers of 23 January 2020. As I recall, this case was referred by both the Marshal and the Prime Minister, twice by the Prime Minister, on 24 February and 30 January, to the Constitutional Tribunal because there is a dispute here. And now, in the context of constitutional provisions and the provisions of the ordinary Constitutional Tribunal Regulation Act... Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask you a question because it's been a minute. Yeah, I'll ask you a question. Can we at this point... What kind of pressure do we have? 'Cause it's going to be the pressure on the Constitutional Tribunal to, I don't know, take this kind of action? Should we force this action on the Constitutional Court? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u174	Senator, you're partly right, but only partially. It must be borne in mind that regardless of the resolution adopted by the 3 connected chambers, we have some activity in relation to the institutions which are the subject of this resolution. And this is an element, from our point of view, disturbing. This is also required by judgments, guidelines, resolutions of other institutions, including European ones. And the bad situation is that at the same time that the Constitutional Tribunal is to deal with a dispute of competence, with a questionable legal basis... The point is to stop a process that depreciates the justice system and introduces a certain degrengolada. We, in short, pay attention to the fact that this process of a certain depreciation is slowed down so that the damage to the justice system is less.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u175	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. My question is quite trivial, Mr. Senator, but it's very important to me, I think to the public, too. This is a debate about a resolution. I'd like to ask the reasons for the submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u177	Actually, it's a question of where the author is. The author's on this side of the room, I'm speaking symbolically. Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice has led to a situation in which the Senate of the Republic must speak. We are dealing with the following facts. The judge in Rybnik was physically attacked by a suspect. These things have happened before. In defence of the attacked, the state should stand, but we have a situation where the Deputy Minister of Justice ironises and minimizes the case instead of defending the woman being attacked. We have an emergency. Failure to do so would be a failure, a serious failure not only to your judge, but also to all professionals, extremely important and very specific in the Constitution. We have a situation in which the judges themselves complain that they are the subject of stinging, bullying, criminal threats, and discipline. And that's what state institutions do. We have dealt with the extraordinary action of an institution appointed by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, a billboard action in which courts and judges have been subject to an extraordinary public money chase. We are dealing with a situation in which a heiter group is set up in the Ministry of Justice against judges. If the State is attacking the justice system, specific judges, either the whole group or specific courts, the Senate of the Republic of Poland is required to comment on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u179	Senator Czerwiński asked about the number of applications for a public hearing on the amendment of the Act on the National Court Register. I'm not a representative of the applicants, so I can't answer that. But I might ask: does the senator think that more than 30 applications, for today, from organisations interested in the project Of course, I'm talking about a public hearing, is that a number that points to an interest in legislative work on this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u180	No doubt about it. This confirms the importance and importance of this initiative, as well as expectations from various backgrounds, including citizens who are not directly connected with the justice system. In short, to counter the devastation of the justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u181	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u182	I already asked at the committee's meeting, but I didn't get the answer, so I repeat the question. Since we have a division of power, we have power... The Senate is the legislative authority. These authorities should be separated, and here we want to move the institution of judicial independence. In the last paragraph of the project is information that the Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses appreciation for all these judges, as well as representatives of other legal professions, etc., etc. I'm gonna focus here on judges and judge independence. Given that the definition of judicial independence as regards constitutional provisions, then... the judicial independence according to the Constitutional Tribunal is... Mr. Senator, question. Well, the question is... I ask you to know whether, in view of the fact that this judicial independence should be protected, such interference of legislative power, political power, as regards judicial independence, will not harm this independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u183	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u184	I'm pretty sure it's not. We are expressing our opinion on this matter, demanding independence and independence. In the final paragraph, we do not say in which direction the assessment should go, the possible assessment of those actions which, from our point of view, may be illegal. But we recognize and consider it necessary that the violation of the law, in short, be judged. In general, and going back to the committee, I have to say that we had a lot of misfortune at this meeting. That's what I'd call it because I don't want to use a stronger word. But if it's a request that we talk about people and not about judges, then I protest, because judges are people, too, and they also need protection and protection from us. If there is information or suggestion that we are dealing with a harmful title of a proposed resolution, a harmful title I will quote this title: in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary And if someone considers that we have harm in this independence, in one noun or another, there is a lack of understanding as to the direction in which legislation should go, in order to protect this independence, independence, in short. But I do share, Mr. Senator, such an opinion, the fear that it should not be used as if against, that it should not be considered a suggestion. But, in general, I am cutting myself off from such interpretations and I believe that they have no basis in the records implemented in this proposed resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator rapporteur, there are many pathetic words in the dispute about judicial reform, but I am interested in a certain practical dimension of the resolution. The last sentence of the project says that as Senators of the Polish Republic we provide... But I don't know what I'd be committing myself to with this resolution if the Senate majority voted for it. Am I supposed to report to the D.A.'s office? Why did the State abandon the wording "The Senate of the Republic of Poland" and move into an individual form, the Senators? Didn't the Legislative Bureau have any objections here? I'm asking because I didn't meet with this kind of formula in the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u187	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u188	It's more of an opinion and a remark. Of course, it can be considered that some elements of this proposal include the Senate, and in the last paragraph is the word "senators." There's no big quantifier used here, so you might feel turned off... Thank you. ...of course if you vote against. Nevertheless, the Senate's resolution is the Senate's resolution. It seems to me that this is a more cautious wording and to you, in the case of a negative opinion about some records, more comfortable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, don't you think, à speaking or in the context of earlier questions, that the unauthorised interference of the executive authority, the national prosecutor, was implied by the Minister of Justice, and at the same time the policy of the ruling party is to request the waiver of the immunity of Judge Igor Tuleya, presumably because he had the courage to open an investigation into an unauthorized vote during the adoption of laws in the Column Room?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u191	Thank you so much for that question. Of course, I think that we are dealing with an authentic scandal, something unacceptable. In addition, the resolution itself was based on a huge number of. I stress: a huge number of situations from my point of view, from the point of view of lawyers, but also from various organisations not acceptable. The situation of judges, but not only judges, as well as lawyers, sometimes prosecutors, is unbelievable today. They are being harassed, affected by physical aggression, not only in courtrooms, but also outside of them, they encounter aggression on social networks, sometimes I have already talked about it also inspired by the Ministry of Justice. They receive criminal threats, are threatened, disciplined, subjected to various pressures. It's worth it in the Senate. The profession itself is also suggested. Is that my view? It's not just that. If that were my view, he might be considered subjective. But this is shown by hard facts, reports, as well as various assessments appearing here, in Poland, as well as abroad. We have reports from Amnesty International, KOS, which is the Committee for the Defence of Justice, reporters in Poland, journalists outside the country. The situation, as far as scale is concerned, is unimaginable. I did not want to give specific figures in the resolution, including Judge Tuleya, although, of course, his case fits well here, just as the source of our proposal. KRS... Judge Żurek is intimidated, Judge Juszczuszyn is indicted, judges are disciplined for the questions asked, e.g. the European institution. Means asking a question of the European institution is considered to be a crime in Poland. This is an extraordinary situation. In addition, we also have a situation where we have all, in agreement, signed the act of entering the European family, with respect to those institutions that are written there. The judges are also under pressure for reasons. And in Wroclaw, we have a situation where the prosecutor is being called off at the defendant's request. There's been some kind of harassment against him. We also talked about this at the committee meeting. From where I'm standing, these cases... Their number is already unbelievable. We are not dealing with single acts, we are simply dealing with a whole series, even an avalanche of negative activity towards judges, on an unprecedented scale, one can say, in some sense institutionalized. I asked for a short list of articles in which these issues are described. In one hour I received 53 pages of articles describing the harassment against judges carried out today. I can't imagine anyone in this room. Whether he represents the PiS, the PSL or the Platform He didn't see the scale of aggression in this matter. One may disagree with a single record, with a single assessment, but, generally speaking, disregarding or not observing the scale of these events that we are dealing with at present, and which are primarily affecting judges, is impossible. I thank Senator Filip Libicki, who paid attention not to combining this resolution with any reluctance to reform the justice system. No one in this Chamber believes that the justice system was flawless before 2015 or 2010 and worked perfectly, fantasticly and did not require reform. But these reforms, which are currently being carried out, are not being carried out to repair this justice system, but to de facto devastate it. Justice in every country is a very complicated mechanism, it's like a watch. If instead of using the right tools to repair this watch, a baseball bat is used, this is absolutely unacceptable from my point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u192	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll refer to what you asked Senator Gogacz. I am pleased that in the mouth of Senator Law and Justice, a colleague of Stanisław's, words of concern for judicial independence have emerged. I really appreciate it. What's that? I guess that's normal. Well, thank you. Calm down, Mr. Senator, please. Now Senator Blackbay is asking a question. Mr. Senator, I have a question about this. As you see as a man who has an excellent experience in this matter... Well, you're a member of the KRS. How do you judge, on the one hand, the entire legal system created by Law and Justice, with the muzzle law and, on the other hand, the resolution that is here? Please tell me which act is closer to limiting judicial independence and whether a sign of equality between these laws can be established at all, e.g. It's a muzzle, and it's our resolution. Is it possible to speak here, in a declarative sense, of any limitation of independence? Which elements do you think are more limited by judicial independence?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u194	Thank you very much. I, of course, will deviate from such an answer as to assess the justice system. It's obvious, it's not just my job. I can, of course, express my opinion on the comparison of these two acts. On the one hand, it is quite modest in spite of everything, a resolution paying particular attention to the situation of judges, and on the other hand it is a regulation, called muzzle in the public circulation, which de facto largely deprives judges of sovereignty and independence. It is, of course, potentially depreciating, but we know how these instruments can be used. Unbelievable. On this occasion, I will talk about another issue which, from my point of view, is extremely important. Well, there are charges in which a confession is also made. If the government says it's the Platform that started to devastate the law first. The appointment of two additional candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is mentioned in good time, and I must remind you of a fact that I remember well. The ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal in respect of these 3 nominations was positively accepted by the government party, i.e. the Platform and the PSL. With an apology. With an apology. Oh, my God. So we've been dealing with this situation. No one refuses any formation, including the Law and Justice, to make mistakes. It was a mistake, but after making a mistake you must, first, admit to it, second, withdraw from it and, third, remember this practice not to repeat it. A wise man understands that. In the meantime, we are dealing with a situation where those who have devastated the Constitutional Tribunal refer to a fact which had a positive finale because certain decisions have been withdrawn and have not been applied. And today we have a situation that the president, not anybody else, just the president, doesn't sign. I stress: I do not sign The nomination of properly elected judges to the Constitutional Tribunal, which violates... in this way threatens to violate the constitution. And the Prime Minister in this case Prime Minister Szydło He doesn't sign the bill, he doesn't put it in the diary, even though he's obliged to. Those acts, one at a time, which at the very beginning were surprisingly disturbing, built up some disbelief, unfortunately were the beginning of an escalation, which today has the final in the form of the muzzle bill mentioned by the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u195	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u196	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I am a fairly frequent media guest of President Kurski's President, and I can say this: if you watch only these media, you might conclude that judges in Poland are only oil drill thieves, money thieves at a gas station and only a group of people who are notoriously committing various kinds of crimes... And it takes 2 billion to do that. In my opinion, as a result of this atmosphere, there has been a situation in Rybnik, which we all know about. Moreover, one of the vice-ministers misunderstood this fact for a vice-minister. Does the senator share my opinion on this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u197	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u198	Undoubtedly, the accumulation of negative information about individual cases, not always well verified, on public television introduces the viewer and the recipient into such conviction and conviction that judges are, in short, drill thieves. Of course, black sheep occur in every professional group. This seems to be a very modest margin in justice. But the extension of messages about these individual incidents I'll also say that in some cases it's wrongly verified. Unfortunately, it is misleading to the public. To the detriment of justice, to the authority of the court, but also to the speed and efficiency of court proceedings. I would like to point out that judicial reform should serve not judges, not politicians, but people. On the other hand, we have a situation where this reform definitely does not serve people. We're behind on cases, and they're growing. We have a situation where the efficiency of the Constitutional Court, I apologize for the word, has fallen. The quality of certain judgments, too. And citizens who are dissatisfied with judgments And that's almost always half of the people in the courtroom, unfortunately they're not questioning the ruling, but the court itself, the justice system itself. We do not have this counted at the moment, but we know how many foreign entities because of what is happening in the justice system, demand possible arbitration in their own countries, in their own countries, demand to enter into specific international agreements or withdraw from investment in Poland Because it fears that the sovereignty of the Polish justice system simply It's getting smaller, I'm gonna say it so gently. So we will also face losses, with serious economic costs. I don't want to, once again, stress the need to change, make changes. I clearly want to say that a judge who commits a crime should be treated as an ordinary citizen, i.e. suffer the consequences of his actions. But in my opinion, the things we've been dealing with lately have nothing to do with that message I just said.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u199	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, because here I believe that there have been unlawful statements related to the application of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to quote not all this information, but a shortcut, namely: "The National Public Prosecutor's Office has requested the disciplinary court's permission to hold a judge of the District Court in Warsaw Igor Tuleyi to be held liable. The basic charge in the application is... This is not about interfering in justice or questioning a judgment. The basic plea in the application is the disclosure of information from the investigation and the evidence and testimony of the witness that compromised the investigation. In particular, Judge Tuleya allowed to attend the meeting of reporters of 2 television stations, and then in their presence announced a court order and its motives, quoting extensively the testimony of witnesses in the preparatory proceedings. Maybe I'll stop there. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be precise about what you want to convey to the public. Mr. Senator, question, please. My question is, how are you going to deal with this now? Because it's not... This is an outrage. The same thing happened in the Seym. This is not an attack on a sentence, a judgment, a court order. This is an indication that Judge Tuley, as well as others, is required to abide by the Code of Criminal Procedure. There are no sacred cows, there are no equals and equals. Except Ziobra.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u201	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u202	First of all, I'm gonna refer to the last sentence because I was talking about him... Everyone is equal, all citizens are equal No doubt about it. I'd like to emphasise. I'm not gonna mention all the things I've collected. That very often the judge is subject to disciplinary action or harassment for no reason which could be considered reasonable. Very often this is harassment for completely different reasons and for another reason. That's not enough, sometimes without justification. Please note the situation of those judges who have asked questions of the TSUE. Please pay attention to the situation of your judge, who, in his explanatory statement of the lack of guilt on the part of one of the CODE... She's being harassed not because the CODE was acquitted for manifesting, but for a completely different reason. Or moving from court to court... Very often we are dealing with the use of the entire legal instrument in order, in short, to show the judges that if they disobey the authority, they will suffer such and not another fate. It's like a commune. It must be remembered that every citizen, whether in a toga or in a kite or in one or another dress, in a military uniform, is subject to the same law. Mrs. Marshal, if I may ask, literally in one sentence...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u203	One more question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u204	Yes. I didn't want to quote any tabloids, popular newspaper. I tried to get a quote from the specialist portal, from the law portal. en. Perhaps the proposal is even further along, and I am not prejudicing it, but from what's here... I'd ask for an honest answer. Do you think that such a conclusion could be justified? Is this harassment, or is it just a well formulated conclusion which says that all judges are equal, have the same rights and obligations?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u205	I'm never hasty about such charges. I don't know enough about the case, the particular one you mentioned, so I can relate to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I share your view that things happen in the justice system. I respect your opinion. You see others, I see others, e.g. The political involvement of judges... But thank you for letting me off the hook with this resolution you're proposing, although I don't think it's an effective release. But I understand what your intention was. Therefore, I have a question for you who will take this resolution: what is your commitment to this last sentence? The point is: we assure you that they will be repaired and judged. What is the opinion about this type of record? Aren't you going too far with regard to the separation of authorities, firstly, and secondly, by imposing a commitment that seems very difficult for me to fulfil? In short, if this resolution is adopted, what will you do tomorrow?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u208	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u209	I will tell the senator immediately that I have not consulted the specific provisions of this project with any judicial organisation, because I wanted it to arise under conditions of far-reaching sovereignty, including intellectual sovereignty, and empathy, precisely in this House, so as not to relate to the needs of a specific legal institution or a specific judge. It's very important to me. Second thing. Please bear in mind that we generally demand two things, and please do not strip it into too small elements, because they will not give a real picture taken out of context. We demand respect for the law, we defend the sovereignty and independence of judges and courts, and we want the constitution to be respected. This is the main message: respect the constitution, defend the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. I believe that every institution of the state should demand this and that every natural person should easily sign it. I'm going to talk about the second thing that appears as an element of doubt when it comes to facts or state of affairs. As far as Judge Tuleya is concerned, I would like to make it clear that I don't know the judge, that I had no contact with him. I know that he is deeply concealing his political views, and those chicanes that have emerged are multi-storey and historical. All I'm gonna do is refer to the facts. Here's the thing: Judge Tuley without the right to defend himself. This is the way Ziobry's spokesperson, Tuley's fourth time before the disciplinary spokesperson, and his attorney, asked out of the courtroom, Jacek Dubois, Judge Igor Tuley's attorney, is expelled from the hearing before the disciplinary spokesperson of common court judges. Judge Tuley himself says it's only a matter of time before the judges go to jail. And it's not about common crimes, it's about executing a judge's mandate against the wishes of the authorities. I am aware that some elements may be subject to a different assessment, but, Senator, I would not mock the seriousness of the situation. I know that wasn't the intention. I believe that today, in this situation in which we are in, we should strive to ensure that no person is covered by hatred, harassment, exclusion, and in this case No profession, and that everyone performing their role for the state and citizens should be treated equally and equally respected. This resolution would not have been created, I stress: this resolution would not have been created if it had not been for a series of events and disregarding the attitude of high government representatives to events absolutely unacceptable. I even think that perhaps this incident in Rybnik would be treated as another incident that happens, unfortunately, if not for the reaction of the Vice Minister himself. Once again, the joke was that there was only a pocketknife, with such an addition that maybe for peeling potatoes, and that your judge was kicked, but it didn't require a visit to the hospital... I mean, really... Your standards. Let us be rational in this respect and not deprived of empathy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u210	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you if you see any threats to the independence of the judge from inside the judicial community. Because there's talk of legislative power, there's talk of executive power, and there's no talk of a judge's environment. That's the first question. Second question. This is the third sentence in the draft resolution, starting with the words I would like to ask about the Court's judgment in this case, the signature of that judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u212	I'm gonna put it in quotes because I don't want to take it literally... Well, of course we have a Constitutional Tribunal, which has legal personality, its address in Warsaw, there are people who operate there. But I want to make it clear that right now, I don't trust this institution. Because of its mode of establishment, due to its very serious politicisation, and because the head of this institution does not want to, she does not intend to come to the Senate to present her own report. I take this very painfully, very painfully, because it is not only disrespectful to me, to the House, but also to the senator. But they don't mind. From my point of view, this is unacceptable. I do not remember from history that heads of institutions obliged by constitution or other laws to report to a House such as the Senate would treat us as a recipient of mail. It's unacceptable to me. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u213	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u214	Mr. Senator, do you recall from the past such rude attacks on the constitutional organs of the state as they are now? Maybe that's the reason? But it's kind of my... Okay, here's the question, so I'm gonna answer... I'd like to ask... I would like to mention to you such an article which appeared in Rzeczpospolita in 2013. It's about functioning... Don't lie to me...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u215	Mr. Senator, you're supposed to be asking questions, and you're reading the article. Then sign me up. Ask around. I'm asking you a question... Please... No, Mrs. Marshal, please save me for the question. Save for discussion, right? No, to ask again. To the question. Next question? Good. Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u216	Mr. Senator, all the world codes were created to protect honest people from dishonest people. Each provision of every code of the world is decided by a judge, by a person who is prepared to understand what is relevant in these records. Any judge issuing a judgment can call himself a judge and be sure that this sentence will be respected if we respect whoever gives it to him. We Poles have the right to such a historical memory resulting from our history: partitions, only 20 years of interwar, period of war, post-war period, when we were imposed by foreign law, aliens, ruling in our name, though uncalled for and unwanted by ourselves... Now in 30 years since 1989, less than 30 years, we have managed to break something called distrust of the law, and such a Polish condition: and there, somehow, we will somehow get out of this right. We began to respect the law and the people offering the law, the judgments. How do you today view our respect for the law in the context of a public television program called "Kasta"? In the context of these reports, which you have just mentioned, that 50 or 80 articles... How do you assess in this context the need for the Senate of the Republic to issue this resolution, which we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u217	I very much value the New Year's Eve, our great director, who was able to describe just these flaws of ours, specific motives from time to time connected with morals, reality. I remember that there is such a beautiful scene in the Samicha where the text falls: judgment, and justice must be on our side. So to speak, it was accompanied by a couple of grenades. We are running away from this humorously described situation. We are going extremely slowly, not without obstacles, so that the institutions of the state have the power of authority and the power of authority that citizens can use. The devastation of every institution is to the detriment of citizens, although not at every moment, not at every moment, not always in an immediate response is perceived. We are dealing with a series of events, at this time the citizen looks at certain institutions with increasing disbelief, with less trust and it is easier to criticize, which is sometimes justified. I'll tell you, my experience with courts is quite rich. I've been president of a city for several years, a big city, so there's been a lot of that, too. I complained about the reasons for certain judgments. Although I mostly enjoyed the sentences, the justifications were difficult to understand. I've seen what the senators on the right also point out, a certain hermeticity of this profession, flaws, from time to time, a sense of superiority. I've seen it all. But I want to make it clear that this is what we're going to do. That's what the senator's paying attention to. "To the destruction of authority is exactly the opposite of the expectation that those who do so speak. After all, we have always been convinced that the courts are to be more efficient, more predictable from the point of view of these reasons, friendly to the citizen, apolitical, apartite. And we see one at a time, the decision behind the decision, how this goal is not only not achieved, but it just goes away. I'll say, too, no matter who's attacked. I'm not talking about a single case. I'm talking about a process. I believe that the Sejm and the Senate should act in defence of victims of such or others, for one reason or another. I also believe that the effects of such damage as are currently being done to one professional group are in some sense irreversible. We will work for a long time to rebuild this authority. Please note the descriptions of many people who are currently working in the judicial system. And I'm not talking about judges. I say, for example. about administrative staff who are already in the corridor meeting with aggression resulting, among others, in the corridor. from treating the justice system, judges as castes. The consequences are irreversible, creating divisions among Poles, certain tensions, certain emotions, not even connected with a specific, specific situation. Please also pay attention. It's for the senator, too. It is my duty that I, when it comes to the culture of speech or writing, try not to dissuade anyone, but to defend a particular group. That's it. That's it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u218	Thank you very much, Senator... Mr. Marshal, the microphone. Excuse me, the marshal's microphone is not on. He's here. I'm sorry. I thank the rapporteur very much. The next senator for the question is Marshal Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u219	Thank you very much. Referring to the question and actually the statements of Senator Czerwinski, who quoted here the reasons for the prosecution's request to waive the immunity of Judge Tuley, I would like to ask you whether you are aware of the fact that the case was based on the grounds of the judgment. Judge Tuley read the justification, which was extremely important, we remember what it was about, and he felt that such justification should be known to the public. Firstly, as a judge, he had the right to do so, the code allows him to do so, and secondly, he asked the prosecutor present there if he had any objection to making this part of the trial public, with the participation of journalists. The D.A. didn't object. Therefore, my question is this: is this, of course, such an unjustified attempt to press charges, to demand the waiver of immunity, and then to press criminal charges, which will end in nothing, not an obvious attempt to intimidate this judge and, of course, everyone else?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to answer that question, Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u221	The fact that it was about justification was known to me, and the fact that you quoted the senator was unknown to me was that there was also a question to the prosecutor whether it was okay for that justification to arise. Here's what I'm going to say: for obvious reasons, I know you're looking for an excuse, and that's not the point at all. It's about stalking a certain person, by name, for completely different activities, and we know for what. And those that were fulfilled according to conscience and by oath. For me, this is an absolutely unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor and ask Senator Krzysztof Breja's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, is it true that the postulates for the creation of a judge's self-government, the determination of personal status by the local government and the appointment of the presidents of regional courts, then voivodeship, from among the candidates presented by the judge's self-government, so much ridiculed today, were included in the declaration of October 1980. NSZZ.Solidarity? Thank you very much... That's the first question. Oh, I'm sorry. Second question. I'll refer you here to the previous speaker. Is the example of punishing Judge Tuleyi the first attempt to punish an unfavorable, incorrect judgment of a judge, an attempt to prosecute a judgment? And the third question. Is it true that this judicial authority, very important, was created and most strongly developed in free Poland by a law prepared by the then Minister of Justice Lech Kaczyński, a law created in the Ministry of Justice in 2000 and evaluated by the then KRS? Is it true that the President of PiS voted in favour of the 1989 KRS Act, the 2001 KRS Act and the 2002 Supreme Court Act? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because we hear so much about elites...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. Please respond to Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u225	3 questions about actually one issue, a key issue, that is, the role of the judiciary. Indeed, this judicial authority was strengthened, also built within the framework of the values for which Solvency fought in 1980. It is also important that, paying attention to this form of activity, I considered it necessary to include this fourth point, i.e. recognition of the rights of the judiciary to properly represent its own professional group. I would like to point out that in the recent period we have been dealing with acts of disappointing, dwarfing proposals for resolutions of the assembly of judges. I am in this KRS today, I observe various phenomena that cause my concern, but I also have access to documents and I observe the resolutions of the judges of the small courts, the regional courts, the larger ones and the cetera, and I also observe the concern of the environment not to hit someone, in short, criticize someone, but to ensure that in these courts the working conditions are in line with the expectations of the citizens. About that second question. Because I responded to the first and third... Of course, it's not the first such thing. We have many issues that journalists write about in Poland, journalists write abroad, we have them in the opinions of international institutions. This has already accumulated so much that, as we know, the TSUE has decided to use accelerated procedure with regard to disciplinary decisions. This is a special situation. We have not dealt with such an activity of the TSUE in cases where an emergency or accelerated procedure applies to individual complaints. Why? Because that's the scale. Because the effects of slow judgment in this matter can be irreversible or devastating. I would like to draw attention to this, because this is also a very serious argument for being in our homeland in defence of our citizens, who occasionally act as judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u226	Thank you very much, senator. The next question you ask is Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u227	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the 2013 Rzeczpospolita text. In connection with the attacks on judges and judicial staff who defy the dignity and seriousness of these institutions, a Member of the Law and Justice of Stanisław Swed asked the Minister of Home Affairs whether a revision of the rules is envisaged so that judicial police officers in an appropriate and specific number guard the order in the courtroom and in court buildings. Undersecretary of State at the MMA, Mr Marcin Jabłoński, in response to the interpretation, informed that in connection with the scope of the tasks of police officers, including among others. the execution of convoys and convoys, it is not possible to carry out security tasks at all court premises. It can be seen that such threats existed before 2015. There was talk of it, there were interpellations. What's changed, Senator? Do we have any statistics saying that the number of these cases has increased? Because we write in this resolution that we demand... Wait a minute. What's the point? ... .Providing safety for judges at work. I would like you to quote the statistics of these negative behaviours in Polish courts over, say, the years 2015 and 2010 and 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u229	Thank you for calling this question because it was important, valuable and it is up to date, as you can see, until today. What's changed? Things have changed a bit, unfortunately. I'm not going to judge quantitative or qualitative scale right now. There's no time or place for that. But I'm gonna say one thing because I have to do it again. Then the question was taken seriously. Indeed, it is extremely difficult to guarantee physical security in every courtroom, under all conditions and under all circumstances. That hasn't changed. However, pay attention to the reaction at that time and to the current reaction of the Deputy Minister. What's most painful is not even a lack of empathy, but a joke about this situation. I will immediately add that there is no doubt, because I want to be fair in this respect, that the Deputy Minister apologized for it. But the fact was a fact. But there's something in the back of the head that someone is going to be so arrogant in such circumstances, and it's not in any other resort, it's in the one that should be on guard of the security of workers who kind of belong to the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Once again, I want to give justice. There have also been signs of the need to provide the judges with working conditions, including safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I would like to present to you one of the quotations which, in my opinion, is crucial to some of the content of the resolution you are proposing. This is a quote that appeared on the Law portal. let's assume that this is a specialist portal From Prof. Rzepliński's reply. He's a famous figure, respected by you. Well, in response to the allegations made by the Association of Iustitia, which were addressed to the Professor Let's leave what case it was about. There's this phrase: "Iustitia Association" itself is unbelievable because it breaks the constitution. This is de. In fact, the trade union, and the constitution forbids judges, among others. the creation and membership of trade unions. This is a quote from 2012. I would ask you, as the representative of the applicants, to respond to this statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u232	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zdrojewski, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u233	I'm gonna duck the answer this time. It's not a job. In this case, my own, on that occasion, to assess whether it is an association, whether it is a professor, or a difference of opinion with regard to a particular case that has been referred to. But at the same time, I would like to stress that I respect the difference of opinion on various issues relating to the role, the functions of various associations, but I would warn against jumping to the conclusion that, in connection with the activity of the foundation, the associations are dealing with the actual activity of the trade union, because it is not. There is no sign of equality here, and I want to make this clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. Please ask the question of Senator Władysław Komarnicki, whom I want to apologize for skipping out on the previous round, because he should be the one asking the question. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u235	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, I accept your apology. Senator rapporteur, I would like to thank you for the very logical, synthetic and precise justification of our draft resolution. But we can't just shut up with this one resolution. I have a proposition and a question at the same time. Would you please be a member of the National Court Register on behalf of those senators who vote in favour And I firmly believe that this will be the majority of the first meeting after the adoption of this resolution, in a synthetic statement that justifies the logic of the proceedings as regards the justice system in our country... Perhaps you'll awaken wisdom, conscience. 'Cause we all love our country. It's not true that only one loves her and the other doesn't love her.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u237	Thank you very much and for the compliment, and for the question. I will immediately describe the last situation that took place in the mentioned KRS. Because there was an attempt to create also a resolution regarding this event which took place in Rybnik, this single event. The resolution has been overdeveloped into cases that I completely disagreed with. But it also turned out that in the KRS this division, which took place, enabled a narrow group to make this resolution, in short, not to be taken. So it's like somewhere in the consciousness of different people, you start to think that not everything is okay, that not everything is okay. I'm very happy for you. It runs very slowly. But I believe that for ladies and gentlemen of the senators, even what is unacceptable today, for various reasons, I do not want to say that necessarily political At the very least, some of the elements of this proposed resolution will give rise to reflection on the fact that these actions, which are indeed devastating, in short, will try to reverse them. For me, it's gonna be so second. the victory of us, the senators in this case, in the Senate, not the opposition, because I believe that burying divisions, the ability to argue and accept it should also serve our homeland. Especially when we are talking about the most important institutions, such as the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the National Court, the National Courts or those European institutions, which are not always respected by all, but are our institutions. And that's what I'm calling for on this occasion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. Because... I have a question to make: Mr. Senator, could you please read the text of the resolution now? Because it will then reach a wide audience, and it will also find a trace in the minutes of our meeting. And it would also be an assumptuous thing for us to know what some people are actually against, against the wording. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. However, I have a problem, because it is very difficult to ask to read something as a question. I formulated the question: could you read it? Well, in view of this semantic craftsmanship, I'd like to congratulate you, and therefore I'll ask the senator on behalf of the senator: could you read it? Because, as I understand it, the question is literally. But yes, it doesn't have to mean reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u241	Well, Senator Gogacz pointed out that a positive response doesn't have to mean a reading. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I will, especially since the resolution isn't long. And I was also hoping that the rapporteur of the 2nd committee, Senator Marek Borowski, would read the passages. Meanwhile, he acted like a professional senator and first of all read the decisions of the joint committee. So, yes, a resolution to defend the independence of the judges and the independence of the justice system. The justice system of the Republic of Poland is the object of unimaginable devastation. In just four years, the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal was destroyed. The constitutional violations of the amendments made to the National Judicial Council have made this authority highly dependent on the executive authority. The opinions, resolutions and rulings of the European institutions, including the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission, are disregarded. Judgments and resolutions of the Supreme Court are openly discredited. The independence of the judge is being undermined, and the judges themselves have become the object of various aggressive actions by the authorities. Public-funded state institutions are carrying out actions to dissuade courts and, in many cases, specific judges. Without denying the need to reform justice, the Senate of the Republic of Poland also draws attention to the negative effects of the changes on citizens and legal entities. As a result of these actions, Poland is no longer considered as a democratic rule of law on the international stage... Sorry, that's not the story. It's a non-corrective version. Another minor amendment was, yes. Please, in spite of the importance of the issue raised, I would ask you not to interrupt the senator. Yeah, different versions... That's one small thing. Are we considering this project? Mr. Senator, I would very much ask you to return to the bleacher because of some uncomfortable situation that we all feel. This piece was correct, so there's no trouble. Until then, everything was fine. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everything was fine. So... ... Thank you, Senator, for your vigilance, but that document was an earlier document. Reminding me of the article. 173 of the Constitution: Judgments and Courts are separate and independent from other authorities, as well as Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1: The judges in the exercise of their office are independent and are subject only to the Constitution and to the laws of the Republic of Poland, the Senate of the Republic of Poland requests: 1. Stop the repression of judges, respect for judicial independence and independence of courts. 2. The cessation of political interference with judicial institutions. 3. Ensure safety for the judges at work. 4. Recognition of the rights of the judiciary to properly represent its own professional group. 5. Implementation of the decisions of the European institutions, including in particular the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the recommendations contained in the Council of Europe Resolution of 28 January 2020 on the functioning of democratic institutions in Poland, without undue delay and false suggestions that they are being made to the detriment of the Republic of Poland. 6. Take urgent action to implement the resolution of the three Supreme Court Chambers of 23 January 2020. The Senate of the Republic of Poland commends all these judges, as well as representatives of other legal professions, who courageously, despite threats and repression, oppose the devastation of the justice system and often suffer severe consequences for this reason. As Senators of the Republic of Poland, we assure you: the time will come when the harm will be repaired, the unspeakable behaviour is branded and illegal Judged. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. The last senator to ask questions is Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u243	Dear Marshal, High Senate! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to agree with many of the opinions you expressed during this debate. Perhaps this is due to the calm and balanced way of conducting this discussion, and I therefore add to these thanks of Senator Komarnicki. Staying in the mood for an agreement, I will ask you if you would consider it appropriate that, I would say, these elements of the project, which, however, lead to a political dispute, be removed. To be honest, I will agree with certain elements of the draft resolution. Of course, I agree with the title, I agree with the first sentence that the justice system of the Republic of Poland is the object of unimaginable devastation, and I agree with the previous sentence that the Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses appreciation for all these judges, as well as representatives of other legal professions, who courageously, despite threats and repression, oppose the devastation of the justice system and often suffer severe consequences for this reason. For what else is it to challenge an act of someone's appointment as a judge, but not a severe consequence? That last sentence, I'm gonna be honest, you failed, and I think you're gonna get hurt by taking it. On the other hand, the two sentences Okay, we're in full agreement. Wouldn't you see a chance to improve the project like this? Then the resolution would at least get my vote at that moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u245	As the senator realizes, being an experienced senator, at this point I am no longer, so to speak, the owner in the legal sense of the draft of this resolution. He was voted out at a meeting of two joint committees. I am very pleased that you have found elements in this proposal that you can also subscribe to. It is a little late for this request, but I will immediately stress that since yesterday I was ready to accept various suggestions, as well as amendments, and many of them were consequently included in the proposal for this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u246	I thank the senator very much for his thorough presentation of the draft resolution. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to inform you that nine senators have signed up for the vote. Are there any other people who would like to speak? Senator Marek Borowski, please... I'm not hiding that I'd like to close the list of speakers so that we can... Lock it up. Oh, no, you can't close. No? I can't? Only on request. Good. Anyway, I'm informing you... It wasn't my intention to deny anyone a voice, especially since I just asked to sign up. My intentions were pure. In that case, I am merely informing you that with the notification of Senator Marek Borowski, the list of speakers consists of nine people. I ask that Senator Jan Filip Libicki speak first. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is not the first time in this term that we are talking about the judiciary, so a part of my speech will be a repetition of the same which I have already given here in this term. First of all, I have no doubt that reform of the justice system is necessary. I have often used such a case in discussions on this necessity. In 2002 a dispute broke out around the local government campaign in Poznań between the director of public television, which favored one of the candidates, and it was a candidate of the SLD, and the Gazeta Wyborcza, which described the biased message of the public medium. It happened in 2002. In 2016, my father, who took part in the election campaign, was called to testify as a witness. After 14 years, he didn't really remember what they meant, neither did they. Anyway, one of these gentlemen died shortly afterwards. The trial, I understand, goes on because it's not over. This is one example, but there are many others of this type. Of course, I think that in this case, as far as justice is concerned, it is always the same as with the Law and Justice, i.e. you make some diagnosis of the disease, this diagnosis is more or less right, sometimes it is even more than less right, and then you apply a medicine that turns out to be worse than the disease itself. That's exactly what we're dealing with here. Once again, I would like to say that my discussions with the judges show exactly what I just said that reform of the justice system is necessary. It can't be, for example. so that the judge must perform a certain number of procedures both when there is a case for not taking a ticket for speeding too fast or for disturbing night silence, and when the case is very complicated and involves brutal killing. Therefore, the proposal with which Minister Piebiak came to the first meeting of the Minister of Justice when he became Minister concerned e.g. increase the number of referees. Besides, this project, with which Minister Piebiak came then, was very warmly accepted and then withdrawn by Minister Piebiak. And then there was a project that only deals with personalities. Whether we call these referents referenda, or introduce the judges of peace, as if they wanted the Polish People's Party, which I represent, this is another matter. But we haven't talked about reforms to improve justice in five years. You don't put in place institutions that could speed things up. The Government of Law and Justice only deals with personalities. The next issue is the issue of the pursuit of professional groups. I would like to ask the representatives of the Law and Justice if there were regular programs on a commercial station every day, from Monday to Friday, for months, describing cases of pedophilia in the Church... Wouldn't you be outraged that it's throwing at all the priests that are 23,000? I think you'd be outraged that that's what we'd call it. The professional group, by showing individual cases, is racked up, she has her authority, her social prestige. I'd be outraged with you because I think it's outrageous. Well, that's exactly what Mr. Jack Kurski's television is doing. Of the 10,000 judges ruling in Poland, individual cases are selected, programmes are being created, which are pressed into public opinion from Monday to Friday. You know, when you put it on your belt... No collective responsibility is something in European civilization And I hope that we find ourselves in something like this, in such a circle of civilization, it is acceptable. She's something unacceptable. This is because of such programs and such situations, what we have been dealing with in Rybnik. Well, I am most deeply convinced that what happened in Rybnik is one of the fruits of the public television program entitled "Kasta". And what Minister Wójcik has said is something that, in my opinion, does not fall within the category of admissible statements of a high official in such a situation. It is difficult for me to judge this statement at all and to address it in some civilized way at all. This is absolutely unacceptable. I want to say yes, of course no one here is talking about some kind of rematch. I would like to point out that where there is this record of punishment, it is said to punish those who have acted unjustly. I think everyone with that phrase agrees. I would just like to express my opinion here, judging Judge Nawatski by his behavior. Well, I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think he's fit to judge. It's more suitable for a hospital room than a courtroom. Well, I guess... [[Applause]] ...when I watch what Judge Nawatski did, taunting the resolution of his fellow judges. Right? But I'm already giving this situation to Marshal Grodzki or Marshal Karczewski more than lawyers. And finally, because here very often is the formulation of an ordinary citizen... In my opinion, the ordinary citizen, unfortunately, is not particularly concerned about what the Law and Justice are doing, and our resolutions are not particularly clear to him, as correct as possible and in accordance with the facts of the resolution. It seems to me that an ordinary citizen simply has a sense of chaos, one great chaos, and uncertainty, what will happen when he goes to court. And he's right to have that fear. I'm not a lawyer, and I'm also worried about what's gonna happen, how I'm gonna go to a court where he's gonna chair the formation. Judge appointed by the new National Court of Justice. I don't know what's gonna come of it either, and if that sentence is gonna be valid. Therefore, it seems to me that I really do not have much hope that it will happen that some solution would simply be to try to reform the justice system over political divisions. Unfortunately, the course of this discussion, in which I myself participate, does not give me great hope that this will happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u248	Thank you very much, Senator Libicki. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is indeed a very important resolution. Its taking or not really taking will decide how the Senate will be perceived in the future. That's why it's important, so it's worth to lean on it even more. The Senate's resolutions are different. These are generally commemorative resolutions on the occasion of a round anniversary: some event, birthday, or death of a known person. Besides, we have the 100th anniversary of regaining independence of this process and we often make resolutions. There are special resolutions, the circumstances of which are due to some random events that are hard to predict, difficult to overtake. A typical example was those fires in Australia. The question is, what kind of resolution is this? Well, it's certainly not an anniversary resolution. What was the event, independent of us, that should be dealt with in this resolution? There is one incident which was given orally by the applicant's representative, namely the incident in Rybnik with a sample or with a properly executed assault on your judge. Ladies and gentlemen, these events will happen. I can quote an example from Opole, from Opole, where I come from. The district attorney's attorney has been brutally attacked. You remember that there was such a man who ordered her face to be poured with acid. There was probably no resolution at the time, although it could be said that such a resolution had to be adopted at the time. The question is therefore: does the event we were talking about challenge us to make such a resolution? I don't think so. This is an individual event, although, of course, it is condemned. Like I said, people in a sense of imbalance are going to happen forever and everywhere, in every system. The question is, what is this really about? I'm making a hypothesis. This hypothesis could be falsified. How long are we at this point? We are in time just before the public hearing of the bill turning upside down the current system of the appointment of the National Judicial Council of the National Courts. And, sorry, something's going on. Public tension, public interest, quotes and colloquially speaking, died. There's no public interest. I asked that question on purpose. I checked: at the moment, there are 33 proposals in the Legislative Committee, 33 people wishing to take part in a public hearing, and the deadline is at midnight today. Perhaps there will be a much greater influx of conclusions, perhaps after our debate. There's nothing to brag about. The public is just sick of it, tired of maneuvers at the KRS, and wants to be at peace with the judiciary. The judges are simply to judge, and you continue to mix. Perhaps there's a second reason. She was supposed to run the street and abroad. What about overseas? How can someone abroad deal with a subject that has died of natural death? Well, you have to give the basis for foreign claims that we have to solve the ongoing problem of the KRS and judges. To us, of course. All right. Go in that direction. But if so, I would call it task and utilitarian to put this resolution on the agenda, then its content must be appropriate, or actually contentlessness, lack of content. And I will try, as long as I have time, to prove it to you. Let's start with a basic issue, a false one. Mistakes can be different, false, contradictions, understatements. The first point: the second sentence, the constitutional amendment made with regard to the National Courts Council. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only up to the Constitutional Tribunal to decide to break the Constitution in our legal system. If you have any other legal system, please state it clearly. That's what I'm gonna talk about at the end. In our legal system it is not the Czerwiński, not Zdrojewski, not the Senate in gremio, not the Supreme Court, only the Constitutional Tribunal. That's what the constitution says. Open the constitution and read it, not stop reading the cover. It's just that it's false. Next: these changes have addicted Of course. This body, the National Judicial Council, from the executive authorities. Maybe it is, but it can be faked. How? There are two possibilities. Either those appointed to an authority or to a function or position are dependent on the appointing authority, or they are breaking up. That also applies to judges. You say this: while we are quoting, of course, or, in fact, the caste of the Magistrates, they determined the composition of the KRS, as soon as the judge was appointed, this relationship was broken. But then, when a judge's part is called by another body, this relationship exists. Basic logical error: either it's a relationship or it's not. If he's not here, there's nothing to talk about; there can only be pathology. But if it is... Well, the question is, is it or isn't it? It can be falsified. You can check it out. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there was a discussion with the Ombudsman. I asked him a very simple question: let him tell me, let him show me at least one example of the citizen's application, who complained about the independence of the judge or the independence of the courts, the citizen, and not the various association bodies. He couldn't give a single example. Well, maybe there are no such examples or, perhaps, citizens don't want to complain about it. But do you know such examples? I'm talking about examples in which, not according to your theories and assumptions, but because of the facts, the judges appointed, in quotes, by the new KRS are less unimpeachable, and the courts are less independent than the previous judges. Do you know these facts? Specific facts, not imagines, not stories, not great quantifiers of the type of each, all, etc.? Give me one example. Does it exist? Mr. Senator, 10 minutes. I see. I'm approaching 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, they are in this resolution, in the content of this resolution, no, yet a draft, statements which are internally contradictory. I'll quote them to you, at least if you allow me. Opinions, resolutions and rulings of the European institutions, including the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission, shall be taken into account. And in point 5, you are calling for the implementation of the European institutions' resolutions, including, above all, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the recommendations contained in the Council of Europe resolution. Great, except that some of the tasks that you are imposing have already been, in quotes of course, accomplished. And now a very simple question: could it have been realized e.g. Supreme Court? Art. 183 interiors of the Constitution, not the cover: The Supreme Court also performs other activities set out in the Constitution and in the Acts. And where are the TSUE rulings here? And where are the other acts of external organs from outside Poland? That's constitutional matter. Doing the operations specified where? In the Constitution and in the Bills. Mr. Senator, two minutes out of time... Judge, you're quoting this yourself. In the exercise of their office, they are bound and subject only to constitutions and laws. Not to international external law, we have not committed ourselves to this in any treaty. To be continued, Mr. Marshal, according to your suggestion, it will be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u250	Thank you, Senator. You spoke about two minutes longer than you expected. Let me warn you, I will treat all senators the same way. Mr. Senator, I've extended the time or maybe I've allowed it to be extended by two minutes, which means that any of you can expect such liberalism from me, but I would ask you not to abuse it. I will try, as always, to treat everyone the same way, but this time discipline is one of the most important things that show mutual respect. That's a short cut, take it out of those five minutes... Oh! Thank you, Senator, for the suggestion. Mr. Senator, please. He's cracking to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! This resolution is another episode of such an endless story in the Senate. In the previous term, it could still be said that she was here, maybe often very harsh, maybe overwhelming, criticism from the opposition, but she had some merit. We talked about legislation, we talked about procedures, we talked about certain European or constitutional solutions. This resolution is now pure demagogy and pure propaganda. This resolution in some sense reduces the prestige of the Senate, I spoke about it at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, this committee, which has always been seen as one of the most prestigious, dealing with the most important issues in a calm, mature, very responsible way. It is this pure policy in this worst sense of the word, i.e. politics calculated on conflict, on escalation, on sharp, non-essential emotions. The words that are used here, they do not conform to reality, it is simply an alternative reality. In this term of office, you are the majority, you have a marshal, and to a large extent you take responsibility for the functioning of the Senate. I am sorry to say this, and I will repeat what I said at the Legislative Commission meeting, that I am sure in my previous term of office... I'm a second senator, so I can't talk about the entire history of the Senate, but I'm sure the Senate has never been so acclaimed by one side of the political scene. The Senate is not constitutionally attached to such an aggressive political struggle. An aggressive fight, an aggressive dispute is taking place in the Sejm, because the Sejm is calling a government, because the Sejm controls the government, because there is a possibility of e.g. submission of a vote of distrust, change of force, replacement of the Prime Minister. In the Senate we should talk calmly, we should not be engaged in building propaganda and, once again, I stress this, an alternative vision of reality, because it harms the state. You accept as a modus operandi such a password that the worse it is for the PiS, the better. In the meantime, in harming the Law and Justice, you are really hurting Poland, because at this moment, as a parliamentary majority, creating a government, with a president, having a democratic, independent mandate to rule this country, we are in some sense emanating this country and its representatives in accordance with the constitution and democracy. This isn't this country. This is our country. Our country. Ours. In our country. Yes, sir. But this country is becoming a country so divided by you that it's hard to talk about any community. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Here in the Senate, in this term. I refer to what I hear in this term. Now, back to the matter of the judiciary, I'm going to say yes. Since the elections, you organize here a theater to show how the rule of law in Poland is destroyed, as this resolution states, there is an unimaginable devastation of the justice system, you draw here taboons of legal authorities, which are usually just part of the law elite sympathizing with you directly or indirectly, as well as very strongly involved in a strict dispute. political. These are not independent authorities. These are the people who, by means of political instruments, really speak on their behalf, are a party to this dispute. This is not a dispute about justice, it is a dispute about power. This is a dispute over power which, in the opinion of some part of the legal community, is to remain entirely in the hands of the legal monopoly. No other authority shall be entitled to such a monopoly. Such a monopoly is harmful, such a monopoly is contrary to the idea of three divisions of power, the idea enshrined in the Constitution. An additional harmful feature of this whole operation and of this resolution, if it is taken, is that this painting, carved and false, is being transferred to the international arena. And here you are pretending that you are acting on a good cause, and in fact you are hurting the Polish issue more and more in the European arena. In the European Union there are probably the most difficult budget negotiations in history, and you are weakening our negotiating position, giving our political opponents, our competitors, those who today in Europe are not willing to share, neither to support the weaker, nor to build or expand our European family, yet another argument to hit us. You are demanding a link between the rule of law and the European funds, so you are agreeing to the future, the existence, the development of our country. You are putting the democratic government, the prime minister, in a very difficult situation, the ministers who are negotiating on the prospects for the future of Europe. It is an anti-state activity, it is an anti-Polish activity, very harmful. We can't agree to that, we can't put our hands on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u252	Senator, I would like to point out to you that you have made an accusation in this court that is even subject to treason in the criminal code. For you have accused your political opponents of anti-Polish activities. Then put me in front of the State Court, will you? No, no, I don't want to put you before the State Court. And stop scaring me because there's just too much scaring in the Senate. I didn't scare you. You guys have a lot of different clichés on your lips... Mr. Senator, please. ...and in fact, in an increasingly repressive way, you are setting this House's functioning. Mr. Senator, not only not repressively... This is simply a democracy in the full sense of the word, a democracy that Marshal Borowski has repeatedly spoken about. I've only paid your attention without scaring you with any consequences. Well, if you're accusing me of treason, you're going too far. You're gonna... I have a vague impression that you didn't understand my words in the debate, Mr. Senator. All I said was that you made out of the Senate stand an accusation of anti-Polish and anti-state activities... Yeah, yeah. ...and therefore a plea qualifying for a criminal code against its political opponents. I've got your attention. Just so you can measure yourself because of the gravity of the charges you're making... All right, Mr. Marshal... ...as I understand it, my fellow senators. Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u253	Let the other senators refer to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u254	Mr. Marshal, I believe that in a situation where I see... Okay. ...that the course of the debate offends the senators in this House, including you, Mr Marshal, because you have also been accused of anti-Polish activities... But I'd like to refer to it, and you... Of course, you have the right to speak in the debate. As a marshal, I assure you that if the opposition senator, the majority in this House, were to make criminal accusations against his political opponents from Law and Justice, I would react the same way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u255	Mr. Marshal, in this resolution, there is such a statement that as senators, we assure you that the time will come when the harm will be repaired and the unworthy and unlawful behaviour will be corrected. Judged. So I do not go beyond the style of this resolution. [[Applause]] You impose this style of debate in this term of office, at every step you use an unacceptable language, and this language is acceptable only if it is directed towards us. Your democracy is that you can blame everything on your opponents, and we are to politely nod, whip each other and acknowledge that you are infallible and that only your views are right. I have the right to press political charges here, not criminal charges, and I'm filing political charges. I believe that your activities in this area are harmful and anti-state, and I will not change that opinion. And does she have a criminal record? That's your Marshal interpretation, not my words. I'm going back to my intentions. The reform of the justice system is one of the elements of a normally functioning state and one of the powers of the national parliament. The only certainty about the relationship between Polish law and European Union law is that these matters have been reserved as the competence of national parliaments. Everything else is an extension, it's an interpretation, it's a deeply political argument. Here, in this Parliament, there should be a calm, deep, responsible discussion, also on the relationship between the order of national law and European law, the relationship between the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Tribunal, national courts and European courts, the European institutions and national parliaments. This debate is not here. Here is an overwhelming, one-sided, demagogical voice that says that in all spheres we are to comply with these European decisions, which are not the result of any treaties. I am also strongly protesting that we should give up our sovereignty in such an unauthorized way in favour of the ever-increasing expansion of European institutions and European courts in national matters. This expansion takes place in a way contrary to the treaties, non-orthodox, that is, it is introduced by a kind of back door, through the very obscure case law of the tribunal. And this case law is inconsistent, it results from the application of European law according to different standards. There are those who are not accused of anything, from whom nothing is enforced, although the provisions of the Treaties directly force such action, e.g. in terms of financial or budgetary regulations, and there are countries such as Poland that are constantly humiliating themselves, ravages and barbecues without any basis of the Treaty. If the European Union succeeds in linking European funds to the rule of law, it will also be a political and legal hucpa which is completely incompatible with the Treaties. And what, we're supposed to agree to that, too, because that's what one or the other judge said, politically elected for a few years? Is this some kind of new oracle? This is supposed to be a new legal system where democracy ceases to exist because there's a tribunal? This is all very suspicious, both politically and legally. It's all treated very freely. But it's been ten minutes, please watch your time. Yeah, but I think it took me four minutes. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal... He's been talking for 15 minutes. No, not 15 minutes. The senator has been giving his speech for 12 minutes... I'm done. ...which was interrupted by my intervention as well. So I'm sure the senator hasn't crossed 10 minutes for now, but he'll do it in a minute. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I think that we should really have a serious discussion in the Senate, we should exclude the Senate from such a current political struggle, a campaign struggle. The Senate should be a chamber of reflection, of reflection, not a chamber to fight a democratically elected government. And I ask you senators, senators, to look at these matters from a distance from time to time, calmly. Ask yourself this question: is it true that the European Union has such a mandate, such a patent, to establish a coherent judicial model in all countries? Is that what it is? Isn't this all just one big political game? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u256	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After this very emotional speech, I'm gonna let myself get some air. As I was talking about shortening Senator Czerwinski's second part by those two minutes, he waved my finger and I waved my finger back, but I wanted to say it was an index finger. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm glad you didn't have a thumb. And on the one hand, and on the other hand, they were fingertips indicating that no standards were exceeded. The senator will agree, let me not thank both senators for acting like this. Let's take that as a standard that we don't have to thank for. Yes, sir. Senator Czerwiński asked what happened, that it was now, today. Well, five years has happened, Mr. Senator, and that, among other things. Mr. Senator had to correct the legal bases that came to us about the Supreme Court ten times. And you remember the senator. The senator needs to remember that, because you're always in the O.R. As other ministers came with further amendments, which contained exactly what we said on the basis of an analysis of our Senate legal office. It turned out that after two months we had to start the discussion again and that what we talked about and what we warned about came here. And as for the event in Rybnik, which, you're right, is not isolated because it happened earlier, the senator knows very well that sometimes there are catalysts for certain events. That proverbial drop is enough for the witchcraft to spill. If you take the senator into account how pressured society has been on this issue, how pressured the opposition has been... When there's action, there's reaction. And that's the reaction, that's the reaction to those five years when you couldn't have a comma, you couldn't think about it, even a little bit of influence on the states, shift your sensitivity to any direction. So, when there's a reaction like that after five years, do you resent us? Have you listened to the opposition for five years and changed anything at least an inch? No. The ministers came in, sometimes they said crap that was corrected by the senators a few months later. And there's no reflection on that? You asked the senator, in his statement, he asked for any facts, not myths about the dependence that is at the moment. Well, then, Senator, I want you to follow up on the whole heifer thing. And if you find... From the Ministry of Justice, 1 Minister was fired for it through the members of the KRS, who were in this group, and members of the new chambers... Isn't that proof of political dependence? Or maybe not even political? Maybe it's a gravy? Even if it is not political, we need to fight it and we need to wonder how to fix it. You've talked many times about not reading the cover, but the middle. But, Senator, in addition to the text, there is something we call the spirit of the Constitution, resulting from the previous judgments of 30 years of the Constitutional Tribunal, from international agreements. Let's not forget that spirit. I'm going back to Senator Pop's statement, who said that we're using a conflict policy. I'm the one asking you again what to call the last five years, when you're the senator, as we are, for political reasons, he had to sit here until 3:00 a.m.... He wanted to. ...when it was the senator, as we did, who received the text of a very complicated bill two hours before you were supposed to vote on it. Well, is this a serious approach to the state? This is a serious approach to issues that are rubbing against the whole constitutional system? Is this fair and wise legislation? Well, no, you can't manage the Senate like that, you can't manage it. And here I go back to my first thesis and remind you: 10 times you had to change the Supreme Court Act. Senator, you said the propaganda crack. Well, remember that. The majority of you were sitting in these benches during the previous term of office. All these resolutions produced by Senator Zarin in the first place. I respect him very much as a man... And what, they were all over the divides? After all, they were ideologically oriented in one direction. And it was that one or two resolutions were at each meeting. And what you said to the senator is that PiS is the only emanation of society... Well, you have to think about how it got 1 million or 1.5 million less votes than the rest of them... Well, that's aberration. And that saying that only our part is right and only we can represent the nation... I'm not talking about the rest of that speech anymore. I believe that these words were motivated by anger. The need for reform of the justice system, which Mr Libicki spoke of here wonderfully... Of course it has to be. But we talked about it, and that's what the money is for, and you're not putting that money in. Procedures... Gowin did it, and you threw the reform of Gowin, your own deputy prime minister, into the trash can. He threw it away. More than that, the ministers came here and said it was the stupidest reform and she should be erased. If I were the deputy prime minister in this government and my government buddy would tell me that I did the stupidest thing I could do, I would really quit, I would quit this government. It's about experts, it's about referents, it's about administration. For five years, has anyone offered a solution? No. All we hear are clichés about the need to change the justice system. These five years are pseudo-reform, only subjugation of the courts, the prosecution's office, combined with a media attack on judges. You spoke very well of this again, Senator Libicki. And that led to the collapse of justice. Let's talk about specifics. If the procedures in the general courts have increased by 20% and twice in the Supreme Court, tell me what reforms are we talking about? For five years... Because there's a theory that all that the Law and Justice do is submit themselves to justice. But I have a theory that this is a smoke screen because these five years have turned over... in those five years not only have you not fulfilled any of the promises you made, but it's worse. And I would ask if we were talking about reforming and improving justice, so that any of you could come to this pulpit and say what changed for the better, where justice works better. And then I will gladly bow down if anyone tells me at which point Poles are better off. We say, and that's sometimes the reason to attack. That the Constitutional Tribunal, the RPO, were created for communes. But remember, these are 2 institutions filled with completely different content, because on the way they were filled with the content of the new constitution, international agreements, the case law of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court. This is a completely different quality. And look at the way it works. It's just a personality thing. The Constitutional Tribunal, under the authority of the President, and how the Ombudsman works. Whoever comes and who makes any reports, where Mrs. Przyłębska is hiding, why isn't she with us or the Sejm... Mr. Senator, we're two minutes out of time. You've been out of time by two minutes. I'm almost done. Excuse me. And one last thing. That's what happened at the committee meeting. I don't want to say who said it, but on the part of the Law and Justice That the case of Judge of Rybnik, that Tuley, that Yuszczyszyn are incidental cases. I'm the one who's here, and maybe in the extra time, well, I promise, I'll read the list of 50, 60 judges, prosecutors and lawyers who have problems with the new Disciplinary Chamber just because they've accepted a certain interpretation... You can say that this is the interpretation with which you disagree, the judgment of the TSUE and later the Supreme Court. You can say that. But if we take the structure of justice seriously, that's the interpretation in force. And no bill you're gonna pass that it's night is gonna change that if it's day... The first president handed over the case... And remember, throwing this in the Disciplinary Chamber for judges is just bullying judges and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u258	Thank you, Senator. If you apply the logic of cutting off extra time... I'll have less. ...for extending the speaking time, the senator will hardly have any extra time at all. No, give him two more minutes. Christian love. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I think it is still worth saying what was not quite said earlier in answer to the question: why this draft resolution? The last debate we held in this Chamber, which concerned the destruction of justice in Poland, was held before the Senate rejected the muzzle law. Luckily, the Senate stood up to the task. Fortunately, the Senate has defended its honor. Fortunately, despite the opposition that came from these benches, the Senate showed his decent face. The Senate has stood up for those judges who have vowed to deliver judgments in accordance with applicable law. Not only did he defend their independence, but he also defended those citizens who would be, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, harmed by the fact that there would be a judge on call that there would be judges who would pass sentences in accordance with the political will of the ruling party. And since then, something's happened. It's not just that the Senate rejected it, and the Sejm accepted it, and the President signed it, but this bill started to be executed. This bill has begun to be executed. Repressions on Polish judges, on the integrity of the judges, began. Repressions against decent judges are going all the way right now. The Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court suspends the actions of Judge Juszczyszyn and reduces his remuneration by 40%. Why? And because he asked the Sejm Office to do what she finally did, that is. To unveil letters of support for the members of the KRS. He dared to ask for it, he dared to ask it. His decency and integrity just made him do it. And that's why the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court has been treated in this way. Now Judge Tuley. Judge Tuley, whom you hate because he dared to acknowledge in the course of the proceedings that everyone in this room knows very well. The PiS's adoption of the budget in the Column Hall was illegal. He dared to proceed with court proceedings. Who is he? Well, there's an enemy of those who broke the law back then. So what? You have to apply for the suspension of his immunity in order to bring him a criminal charge. This is the second case, which is a practical implementation of everything that we discussed earlier in this Chamber. And the repression of judges who took part in the March of the Thousand Thrones? And the repression against the prosecutor who was involved in this march? What, they're not here? Can you hide them somewhere? You're gonna lock it in a box and throw away the key so no one can see it? Well, luckily, it's not just the poet who remembers. Fortunately, we remember exactly what you are starting to do right now by applying the previously passed laws. For four and a half years we have observed, and for four and a half years we have cried out to you, "Stop in this business." That doesn't suit the Senate. The Senate should be the House of Reflection. The Senate should not engage in the destruction of the independence of the Polish justice system. And today Senator Czerwiński makes such a claim that the initiators of this resolution want to give fuel abroad. And who, for apology, has been supplying gas abroad since 4.5 years? A current minority in the Senate, and a majority in the final term! Since 4.5 years you have been making all Western world organizations speak unanimously against the changes you have made in the Polish justice system against the changes that blow up its independence. It has been the European Union with the European Parliament and with the European Commission, the Council of Europe with a human rights spokesperson, the Venice Commission, recently even with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And even the OSCE. And I'll even remind you because maybe you forgot The U.S. Department of State in July 2017, if I remember correctly, when Poland had the biggest demonstrations in defence of an independent judiciary. That's what happened. There is, however, an international organisation that does not speak in these matters. Poland is not a glorious part of it. But she doesn't represent the value of the Western world. It is called the Community of Independent States and was founded by the Russian Federation. It can therefore be said that against these changes, which you call shady reform, which introduce in Poland a mechanism for subjugating the courts of political power, all international organizations of the Western world are expressing themselves, and only one organization of the Eastern world, Eastern Europe and Asia is not responding in this matter. Finally, at the end... All 6 points in this proposed resolution have a full justification in the facts, including the one that says that it is necessary to implement Judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union as soon as possible. We are referring to this judgment of the Court of Justice, which was implemented by a resolution of the Supreme Court, which you consciously reject, introducing chaos and anarchy into the Polish legal system. The Court of Justice of the European Union has made clear the criteria to be met by a court within the meaning of a European court, a court belonging to the Western world and not the East, and has required the Supreme Court to assess on this basis whether the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court is such a court or not. And the Supreme Court, on the basis of these criteria, could not have acted differently than it did, because the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court does not meet these criteria. And that's why... And the Constitutional Tribunal, let me remind you, Senator, is not concerned with assessing the compatibility of the Supreme Court resolutions with the Constitution, but with assessing the compatibility of national laws and regulations. I think I'm quoting the constitution well from memory. With a constitution. So that's not what the Constitutional Court is for. And you will not tell us, as you try to convince many others, that the decision of Prime Minister Morawiecki to refer the resolution of the Supreme Court to the Constitutional Court is more than a propaganda procedure. You can't tell us that! The implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and each of the resolutions of the Supreme Court is therefore an absolute necessity. And that's also written in the draft resolution. Therefore, not only are the repressions that take place following the adoption of the muzzle law to this day, but also the failure to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and, if I remember correctly, the two resolutions of the Supreme Court constitute the reason why this draft resolution is being notified today. I think that's exactly what the Senate should be doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u260	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator and Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! If someone will once, referring to the annals of history, analyzes this debate which is taking place in the House today, it is a great chance that it will come to the conclusion that this debate in a condensed way shows what in fact has been going on in Poland for over 4 years. For in this debate words were uttered, probably against the intentions of those who speak them, which are very well illustrated, where there is a difference between us. And this difference, which I will say in a moment's time about fundamental matters, determines the fact that this dispute that we are in Poland today is such an acute dispute and is also a dispute that arouses such huge emotions. And these would be worth getting cold in this House. But the arguments that I responded to as a marshal... in principle not arguments, and the invectives that fell from this stand, accusing the opposition of the activity! I will quote these words 'anti-Polish and anti-state', contain words that say nothing about the intentions of the opposition, but tell everything about the intentions of people who say such words. This is because in this debate, by arguing with the draft resolution that we have presented, you have used the arguments that are the best justification for the fact that this resolution is needed. Here it came out of the bag today: you identify the interests of the political party, views and ideas for Poland of this political party with the interests of the Polish state. And from the stand of the Senate of the Brightest Republic of Poland, the free democratic Republic, it is acceptable to say that polemicism with its own legitimate government is not anti-state activity, it is an activity which lies in the very essence of democracy, because we are polemicizing with the government, not with the Polish state. And you in this debate, which I also very much regret, have made us feel that this majority, which exists in this Senate, is some random majority and is a worse majority than the majority in the Sejm, which is the government. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, because the majority who elected her marshal today stands behind the majority of Poles voting, and most Poles did not vote behind the majority which is in the Seym. And speaking of this, I am not questioning that again, and I stress that once again, the legality of the majority of Parliament's Law and Justice in the Sejm, I just say that the awareness that most Poles did not vote for you should be the source of humble approach to this fact, not the attempt to intimidate, cheat or break the majority of Poles who are against the PiS. What is more, and in the context of this debate, it is extremely important that you ask yourselves: why? Why, despite the four years and despite this powerful support of the Catholic Church, public television and despite things that you yourself, rightly or not, consider to be your great successes, from 500+ I will begin, on other things I will end up... Ask yourselves why 1 million more Poles voted against Law and Justice parties in the Sejm, not for Law and Justice. Because these Poles voted so not because they disagree with each of the diagnoses you make, but because they do not agree with almost any of the methods you want to practice politics in Poland. And the measure of greatness of politics is to realise the complexity and pluralism of society for which it wants to take responsibility. And there's no way to remind me. Today, to the nation of great, painful wisdom, practical wisdom, Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszyński, who when he left the communist prison and met with the episcopate who betrayed him, as we know very well, because many bishops have separated themselves from the imprisoned cardinal... He did, though. Although some thought that he would avenge that he would make order, he would remove those who had fallen into communist power, they were against him in the name of the interests of the Church, he would stop breaking his opponents. Because he thought in long-term categories. If any of you think in long-term categories, you should know that what you do really harms the future of Poland. Because with such an acute dispute, the attempt to break your political opponents will not succeed, the attempt to break your political opponents will only deepen the dispute and, which should be a source of special reflection for you, will disgust the demands, including those far more Poles than you would have considered right, will disgust these demands for many years before us. Because these often sacred words you say will be identified with bad politics for many years, and above all with very bad methods. I would like us to view each of these debates as a source of reflection on ourselves, not just on our opponents. That's why I have to be honest with you: in a large part of the diagnosis that you'll be free from the propaganda blizzard. You're betting on the Polish justice system, you're right. Yeah, he certainly needs fixing. But think about how much you're compromising with these methods the idea that's part right. She is being treated by Poles today And almost every day you give a reason for it. Not as an attempt to repair anything, but as an attempt to subdue people who think otherwise. And the essence of free Poland, the essence of our common freedom, must be that we build a country in which everyone feels at home, and the one who is against the government today, and the one who is a supporter of this government. Because tomorrow there may be another government and other opposition in a democratic state. And also then it will be necessary to remember how many Poles vote for the Law and Justice, even when the Law and Justice will be in opposition. It is precisely because you have to think about the categories of the whole nation, not identify the interests of the party with the interests of the state. Because the Polish state is the only institution that has the right to demand a final sacrifice from us, only the Polish state can demand a blood sacrifice from us. And that is why this country demands our deepest respect, and it requires us to respect all those who, when such a moment comes, will have to give the highest sacrifice for this country often. But they also represent very much different political views. And nothing better than the anniversary we're about to celebrate, the anniversary of the Smoleńsk disaster, illustrates this fact. Because in this disaster, people representing very different political groups died, and what they had in all divisions was service to the Polish state. And that's the deep conviction that we're here to... Also I, modest Senator Michał Kaminski, am here to try to convey Poland to future generations better than that which, thanks to such people as Marshal Borusewicz, but also many people of Law and Justice who fought for Poland... To give to the next generation the better Poland that they gave me. That is why I will vote in favour of the draft resolution tabled today. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] Please take the floor of the marshal, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u262	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! The situation seemed quite clear and I thought there would be a substantive discussion on this resolution. But in this discussion, which has come to a completely different path, one must remember our history, where we come from, what happened a few decades ago in Eastern Europe. And you can't use such words, such concepts in relation to senators elected democratically, as Mr. Senator Pak did: anti-state activities, anti-Polish activities... I've dealt with it many times, in 1968 I was convicted of it, and then a few more times. From a small criminal code, from a criminal code for anti-Polish activities. If you say something like that, that's what you use, then you have to think about our past. Where did this democratic Polish sovereign state come from? No one gave us this country as a gift. It wasn't a gift. It was hard to fight for. We are democratically elected senators, also by the sovereign who also elected the Sejm. And you can't say that alien forces are imposing something on us. The democratically elected Senate proposes a resolution on what is happening to the law and the rule of law. You may disagree with this, but you must respect that we have good will, that we want to discuss that our goal is also the good of the Polish state and that we are very concerned about where we are going. You're the one who's here. I also heard that this is the Senate, in which some pressure is exerted, that such a Senate has not yet functioned. Of course, yes, there was no Senate in which such a resolution could be adopted. But let us recall what has been going on in the last five years, when Law and Justice have pushed laws on the courts of all levels. What happened? Night voting, also on Christmas Eve, New Year voting, voting within 24 hours and the Sejm, and the Senate The most important laws. Have we forgotten about this? Maybe those who didn't take part in it don't know it, but some of them were here in the previous term. I was in my previous term, and I watched it, I saw it. And I had to be a part of it, even though it caused opposition to me and the opposition. What's the situation right now? The judiciary was liquidated, which was also created in response to what was happening in the Polish People's Republic, to this derogation of the courts by political power, and basically by a political party, one political party. And that was the answer to that system. We didn't want it, but this self-government is already shut down. But not just judicial self-government. The last law, called muzzle law, makes the law that the judge has... had a judge... because the president signed this law... to verify the validity of the choice of other judges, the legitimacy of the judge... Well, he won't be able to do that anymore. The KRS, to which we have reservations, points out the judges, the President appoints them, and no one is able to assess whether it is right, whether the judge has been legally appointed or not. The president took the oath and the judge is ready. It's not even a question of education. We asked about it. No. Just the president appoints a judge. That's all. What's the situation? It is best placed to determine how the Constitutional Tribunal works. This was the first part of dismantleing an independent justice system. After what you've done, is this Court working better, better? Is it more objective? Do the judges have the quality that judges should have? Well, we know about political power contacts with President Przyłębska. We also know about another situation. But above all, the efficiency of this Constitutional Court has fallen by more than half, and in some cases by 2/3. This is a situation where the body, it seems, has all the formal qualities, but has no authority and cannot perform its function well. The authority of the Constitutional Tribunal has been taken away from him. I'm not surprised that Judge Przyłębska doesn't want to come here and report back. I think we're gonna get back to this case because we can't leave her like this. This is a violation of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. I think that the situation with the Constitutional Tribunal will continue and that other judicial authorities will also function in this way. The last law also affects the Supreme Court, the choice of president, the functioning of... The new chambers which have been set up shall be challenged by the European Court. This is a terrible situation. This is a situation in which the whole judicial system of the executive authority is clearly pursued, not by the government, but by one party. This is a situation we don't agree to. I don't agree either. No matter where we're going in six months or a year from now, we're going to protest against it. This will not be accepted by us and will not be accepted by a large part of society. I've heard voices like they're all tired, people are tired, so maybe we'll be tired too. These are burning hopes. Don't be fooled. We didn't get tired a few decades ago, we won't get tired now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The next speaker will be Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not the first time we have participated in the debate on the courts. In this term of office, of course... During the previous term of office of these debates, there was a great deal, as all the laws were drawn up, which deformed the system and led to the situation that is currently in place. What does power tell us today? He says: well, you had to take harsh, decisive action, you had to adopt this law of muzzle, repressive, because the anarchy was spreading, the judges questioned the powers of the other judges, because this could not be tolerated, it had to be stopped. If this were to be taken out of context, it would have to be said: rightfully, there is indeed some anarchy spreading and strong decisions must be made. Well, you just have to ask yourself: what led to this anarchy, what were the reasons? And that was a whole series of reasons. No matter what you say now about how you wanted to reform it, let's look at the results of all this. The Constitutional Court has already been mentioned here. In our resolution, in the proposal for a resolution, it is said that he has lost his authority. Do you want to question that? Are you saying this Court has authority in society? You mean to say that the Court, in which there are no 3 judges selected correctly and there are 3 so-called. judges of understudys generally questioned, this is the Court with authority? Are you saying that the judges who hide their past or as Mrs Pavlowicz was... At one of the meetings of the Sejm Committees, she said: this provision is not in line with the Constitution, but I will vote for it because that is the order of my party. Does she, as a member of the Constitutional Court, add credibility to this Court? And Mr. Peterovich? I'm already skipping his job as a prosecutor, and I'm gonna leave this period of martial law, even though we know what it was like, because he even got a medal then. But he was the one who defended a priest accused of pedophilia and convicted of pedophilia. Does he add credibility to this Court? And finally, the president herself, despite the fact that she's afraid, doesn't come and run, after all she's been chosen, we know that. In an illegal manner. There is no resolution of the assembly of judges requesting the president to appoint Mrs. Przyłębska. So listen up, really... I'm talking to you right now, I'm talking to experienced senators, not Senator Blows, because he's a young man, angry and confused. Well, think about it. What's going on? This Court before... These previous Court formations, and I'm not talking about the latter, I'm talking about the previous... You could agree with the verdicts, disagree with me, because I didn't agree with all the sentences, but those compositions had authority. It was something, they were professors, they were people. They're really respectable. Well, today it's just crying. Then the National Judicial Council. The National Judicial Council, from which it all began. Well, these letters have finally been released. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't believe it, I don't believe that Senator Sewerynski, that Senator Gogacz, great lawyers, experienced lawyers, etc., believe that it was right, right and lawful that Mr Nawatsky He's collected 25 signatures. He didn't. Five people pulled out... They couldn't have been withdrawn... No, Mr. Senator. Let me remind you that Mr. Masurian candidate, Judge Mazur, also had his signatures withdrawn, as he said in public. He said yes, the signatures were withdrawn, but I had a lot of them anyway, so it didn't bother me. Signatures submitted under the bill can be withdrawn in the Seym. Until he was placed in the marshal's office, he can be withdrawn. And Mr. Nawacki knew it, your marshal knew it. No, it was done. Not much, he signed off on it himself. Well, you have to collect 25 signatures, but not your own, but other judges. So Mr. Nawatski just didn't have the title to run, but it's not just Mr. Nawatsky. It was supposed to be an independent body. You say, "Yes, the judges have chosen, it's a cotery, etc." The rules of choice for judges could have been changed if those were wrong. And what happened? I checked it out. It turns out that 9 judges of those who were elected, out of 15, if they subtract signatures submitted by Mr Ziobra's staff, did not have 25 signatures, had 15, 16, 17 signatures each. Staff of the Ministry, the minister's subordinates signed these letters. That is why the Supreme Court, and earlier the Court of Justice of the European Union, setting the criteria, drew attention to the fact that this body must be independent. Where the Minister of Justice decides on the selection of these candidates, he shall not be independent. I am, of course, already overlooking those other signatories who have obtained promotion and various benefits from the activities of Minister Ziobra. And this is the next body that has little credibility, yes, little, and it can certainly be defined as addicted by the choice of executive authority. Are you sure this authority, when it appoints judges, appoints the wrong judges? We don't know that, we don't know that, that's the point. Very well said Judge Sparrow, who reported, justified the resolution of the 3 Supreme Court chambers that a poisoned tree may bear good fruit, not all, some, but we do not know which, on this point, lies. And you don't take from a poisoned fruit tree, just like that. That's the situation. Finally, in this resolution we are also talking about the non-fulfilment of various kinds of provisions, decisions, resolutions, etc., including the reference to international, foreign organisations with the rule of law in their statutes, which we have signed, as well as the rule of law. I hear it here all the time, I hear it from Mr. Senator Pęk, I hear it from Mr. Senator Czerwinski: there is nothing here to say why they interfere, because the judiciary is our competence. The Court of Justice has already said this many times: yes, the organisation of the judicial system is the responsibility of the country. But the Court of Justice is looking at how this competence is exercised. If this competence is exercised in such a way that it violates the principle of independence, impartiality, independence, etc., it violates the fundamental values of the European Union under which all countries have signed up. Not all of them. The ones that are members of the European Union. The Charter of Fundamental Rights has not been ratified by Poland. But I'm not talking about the Charter of Fundamental Rights. No, it is in the Treaty, it is also in other documents that are in force in the Union. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, really... Please, there are better specialists here than me, so maybe some tutoring... You're referring to the constitution. You are constantly saying that there is nothing in the Constitution on this subject at all, that some European law should have something to talk about here. Well, I've read it to you from the bleacher once, but maybe it's not clear. I'll read it again. Art. 91: If this is the result of an agreement ratified by the Republic of Poland to constitute an international organisation, the law shall be applied directly, having priority in the case of conflicts with laws. Well, can you be clearer? With ordinary laws. What about the constitution? But please don't... What about the constitution? But, ladies and gentlemen... Even with the constitution. Yes? Yeah, even with the constitution. The Court of Justice has made it clear that countries cannot explain their constitution when they disregard the fundamental principles underlying the European Union, inter alia. the principle of an independent, impartial court. If we do not like it, if in our constitution or some interpretation of this constitution someone starts to claim that a court can be dependent, may not be impartial, then we must leave the European Union. No, but... I'm sorry, or... But after all... No, either-or, ladies and gentlemen. Or-or. Time. Finally, that is why these countries are in the Union, that is why we are in the Union, and that is why the Union was created so that, in a situation where democratic principles are violated in one country, there would be someone who would intervene. 'Cause who else is gonna intervene? If the authorities rule the courts, if they rule the constitutional tribunals, who will? Art. Four constitutions... But I'm asking, who? Which means art. Four? That nation, right? And how is the nation going to speak? Because of the election. Because of the election. Oh, because of the election. Yeah, am I supposed to remind you... Do you want me to remind you of history? Shall I remind you of what they looked like and what elections in non-democratic countries look like? DPRK. Well, not that far. East... And the PRL. Yes, sir, and the PRL... Of course, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, sir, but not to reach the Polish People's Republic... Today, beyond our eastern border... Why are you ashamed of this? But I'm not ashamed. Today, you have such examples beyond our eastern border. You have, for example. Turkey. There you go: you have elections, and that's not necessarily faked, but in a situation where there is pressure in which there is an attempt to limit the rights of the opposition, where there is the rule of law, the rule of the tribunals... And the media. ...and the media, and the media, the election result is what it is. So, gentlemen, don't be naive, really. I understand you can yell and argue, but... And finally, finally, Mr. Marshal... Unfortunately, that's all that's happened right now... To this chaos, to this mess you've caused, you've led because you've been deluded and believed that Zbigniew Ziobro is a great reformer. This is a dangerous guy. I've told you this many times from this bleacher. He's put the law and justice government on a mine many times. And he keeps doing it, surrounded by his own, so to speak, halabardniks... You're talking about the Attorney General. I know I'm talking about the D.A. And it could cost me a lot. Well, that's okay. Surrounded by his halabardniks. A few years ago, there was this comic book where he performed as a hero, a cheerful paramedic. I don't know if anyone remembers that comic book. He was such a cheerful paramedic who, when the sick died or something else happened there, he laughed all the time because it was all very funny. And as I look at Deputy Minister Wójcik, Deputy Minister Warchoł One ironized, mocked the case in Rybnik, the other sent the Venice Commission to the museum of soldiers cursed That's what I see in them, a group of merry paramedics. It's just that we're really not laughing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You will speak with the marshal, Senator Gabriel Morawska-Stank. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Before I begin, I would like to refer to what Senator Czerwiński said about the charges against Judge Tuleya, because I also investigated this case. This case that you were investigating Judge Tuley was recognized at the hearing, and according to the article. 95b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the meeting shall be held with the exception of disclosure, unless otherwise provided by the law, either by the President of the Court or by the Court of First Instance. This is where the court ruled otherwise, and he had every right to do so. The next thing that happened is that the reporters filed for recording. And at that moment, the judge, in accordance with the procedure, asked the prosecutor and the representative of the Members and both parties left this decision to the court's discretion. Consequently, the judge allowed public disclosure as the case concerned an important issue for the public. The D.A. didn't object, and he didn't invoke the good of the justice system, and the evidence from the investigation wasn't revealed because the investigation was already closed. Just so we're clear. Mr. Marshal, the Senators, the most important piece of legislation that this authority treads and violates, the constitution, in the article. 2 provides that the Republic of Poland is a democratic state of law. What exactly is the rule of law? In short, I can tell you that it is what you do not want it to be. Let me elaborate on that. The democratic rule of law is the division of power, the primacy of the constitution, independent judicial authority, exercised by independent judges, the right of citizens to court, the principle of sovereignty of the nation and self-government. The actions of the government and the majority of the Sejm are openly aimed at the monarchy of public authority One country, one party, one president. The way you treat the Constitution, you have shown, without publishing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and destroying this authority by appointing the judges of the doubles. As a result, the judicial authority of the Constitutional Tribunal does not exist, the Court is not efficient and diligent at all, and even one of the judges appointed by you claims that the Constitutional Tribunal has lost its capacity to perform its constitutional tasks. According to the Ombudsman's information, people are having trouble getting into court buildings. The reasons for such violations of the principle of transparency are the Rules of Procedure issued by the Presidents and the Directors of the courts appointed by Zbigniew Ziobra. Today we are faced with further actions aimed at subjugating the judicial authority of the executive. This situation is destroying our image of a democratic rule of law. In the international arena we are compared to Belarus and Russia Vladimir Putin. Is that what getting out of your knees was supposed to look like? Under no circumstances are we opposed to judicial reform; no one in this Chamber is opposed to judicial reform; moreover, we are in favour of deep reforms, but reforms of wise, thoughtful, head-guided, with adequate vacathio legis, I would add: by people who maybe know at least a little bit about it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, would you please calm the room down? Because I'd like to speak. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators to preserve the integrity of the House. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Blow it up, blow it up. But my appeal concerns the shouts from both sides of this room. We believe that the courts must be closer to the citizens. Hence the question: why do you eliminate courts and long-distance departments, like the one in the police? We believe that the procedure should be effective and swift. So the next question is: why has the average time been extended for almost every procedure for four years? We believe that proceedings should be cheap so that citizens can have access to court. Hence the question: why did the cost of civil proceedings increase in August? We believe that judicial staff should be properly remunerated, and you consistently reject amendments to change the situation of thousands of workers and their families. This resolution is not an expression Aversion to the government, this resolution is an expression of concern for the legal security of Poles and Poles, those on whom you have been referring for almost 5 years. We do not want citizens to be judged by the political nominates of Minister Zbigniew Ziebra, but I reserve that any other policy, regardless of the political option. We want the Polish state to respect both the constitution and the standards of international law, including the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union; that judges should not be harassed for their independence and independence of thinking; and that the view of Judge Nawatski, who screechs documents with contempt on his face should never appear in Poland again. The law should always be the result of a compromise, but there can be no compromise on its compliance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u267	Thank you very much, Marshal. I invite you to speak for Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome. I won't be malicious, Mr. Senator, and I say five minutes. I'm not gonna use Senator Pociej's method, but I'd really like to ask you to observe these five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u268	I'll do my best. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to continue with the thought of the previous statement and, above all, to return to the text of the resolution that you are proposing. In addition to these earlier charges, there is one charge that turns it over. Namely, you say you do it for the independence of the judges. The question is simple, logic. When the judge is more independent: in such a state that, when he is called once, his calling cannot be questioned, or in such a state as he was proposed, namely, that his calling may be questioned, or on the basis of a resolution of the Supreme Court or any other body? Tell me when the state of independence is more stable and secure. You must read this in your conscience and answer that question. Continue with regard to the content of the resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be that the resolution is trying, perhaps unwittingly, to disable the constitution. I'll remind you that according to the article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The judge may not belong to a political party, a trade union, which is mainly a trade union. And in the text of the resolution, you make such a request, No. 4: you demand the recognition of the rights of the judiciary to properly represent its own professional group. Not the government of a given court, but a professional group. It's just another word for it. It's just a union. That is what I asked the applicant's representative when I asked him what he thought about the words of your idol, not mine, Judge Rzepliński's, that "Iustitia" is an illegal trade union. I didn't get a clear answer. Do you want this resolution to implement such a request? The next issue, often raised, is the division of power. Ladies and gentlemen, how can the three divisions of power be implemented if, in the sixth postulate, you are demanding urgent action to implement the resolution of the 3 Supreme Court chambers of January this year? This resolution talked about how it is possible to interpret in criminal proceedings and civil court composition when it is possible to exclude judges from the court, according to the Supreme Court, or actually three chambers. And who can only do that? Judges. That's why the Senate has to interfere with the jurisdiction of the court and the judges. Whether these are the right powers or not? Are we gonna determine the court's composition, its correctness? Well, that's what you're talking about, then you're calling it. Such flowers can be found here much more. But I won't be anymore. Because I have limited time, he has tormented you with the content of this proposed resolution. However, I must refer to some of the words that have been spoken here in the last five minutes. Namely, that this resolution is intended mainly to serve... that it is about a spell or a drop of magic in connection with the incident in Rybnik. But when it comes to the content of this resolution, there is something completely different to be said. As far as Rybnik is concerned, this is only your third request, which I agree with, namely, the one in which you demand that the judges be safe at work. And under that as much as I can sign off on, I could vote for that. The rest is just politics. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Truly, Mr President, Senator Klich, the use of the concept of "judges steadfast" reminds me of "soldiers steadfast." Well, then I wouldn't do that. It's on the verge of blasphemy, really, against those people who died with guns in their hands, spilling their blood behind the free Republic. Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes. And one last thing. As far as the European Union is concerned, that is not what I am referring to, because it certainly requires a longer discussion, not for five minutes. But, ladies and gentlemen, a judge cannot be appointed in Poland. I don't think anybody else has done it before when it comes to presidents. If this candidate does not have a higher education. That's what the Universal Courts Act is talking about. And finally, the last of the last issues... Mr. Senator, please... ...that is pro-stateism or anti-stateism. Let's not use too strong words. Let us be clear: whether the pro-state state is supposed to proceed with the Senate's position, e.g. by members of one central authority, in this case legislative, of another authority. questioning the Constitutional Tribunal's legitimacy? I don't think it's prostate. This is an anarchy attempt. At the end we will no longer remember who and what we touched, but unfortunately we can all as Poles feel the lack of our country. And I don't want to live to see a moment like this. We should be pro-state, no matter what happens, tighten our lips and try to change it democratically, but not by undermining a state institution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u269	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start where Senator Czerwinski left off. Well, Mr. Senator, this anarchy is also a failure to comply with resolutions... Not also, but above all. ...and failing to comply with Supreme Court judgments. As regards the Constitutional Tribunal, I would remind you, Mr Senator, that it was the Government of Law and Justice that applied such a myth that it did not print the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Who started it? You were born in May 2015. Who started it? If the senator refers to who started in May 2015, I will reply to you that the Constitutional Tribunal, under the chairmanship of President Rzepliński, stated that it was unconstitutional for 2 judges and that it was constitutional in relation to 3 previously elected judges. So it's you guys again, again, you started, not us... You. If you look at the senator... You chose, and then you said you chose wrong. Excuse me, senators, but don't interrupt. This is Senator Comfort. That's the first thing. I go back to what sounds very often in what Senator Czerwiński says, i.e. to the sources of the law. I'm going back to the Constitution. The sources of universally applicable law of the Republic of Poland are: constitution, laws, ratified international agreements. And art. 91: The ratified international agreement, after its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland, forms part of the national legal order and is directly applicable, unless its application is subject to the issuance of the Act. Mr. Senator, there are only two ways out of this situation. If there is any contradiction between the international agreement and the constitution, it is either necessary to change the constitution or to terminate the international agreement. That's why there's so often a warning in public space that you're getting us out of international order. You have to. In some logic you have accepted Finally, bring us either out of the European Union, or at least some of the international agreements, if you question it, and you questioned it, Senator Pęk, many times today from this speaker, because he said that this is some other legal order... I mean, we have international agreements. Mr. Senator, just one more minute. I promised I'd mention the names of a few judges. Juszczyszyn, Tuleya. About the prosecutors... Crason. ...procurator Krasoń, Krzysztof Parchimowicz, prosecutor Katarzyna Gembalczyk, Dariusz Korneluk. Attorneys: Attorney Jacek Dubois, in respect of whom the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski filed a notice to the disciplinary for saying that the dog's duty is to uphold the law; Attorney Roman Giertych, National Prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski filed a notice in connection with a statement on TV... Mr. Senator... Your colleagues questioned today at the committee meeting that there were more... Again, there's about 60 of them. And that's exactly the charge... I'm looking And I'm gonna say it again. That this is an attempt to intimidate the whole environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u271	Thank you very much. And Senator Marcin Bosacki. The senator has 10 minutes because he's speaking for the first time. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u272	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I'll continue where you ended Senator Pociej. I would like to mention the names of these judges, but also representatives of other legal professions for which the Senate wishes, firstly, to demand the cessation of repression, secondly, to express appreciation for all those judges and representatives of other legal professions who courageously, despite threats and repression, oppose the devastation of the justice system. It's a quote from the draft resolution. These are: Judge of Gorzów Wielkopolski Kamil Jarocki; Judge of Poznań Sławomir Jęksa For his acquittal of President Poznań, Joanna Jaśkowiak; Judge of Olsztyn Dorota Lutostańska; Judge of Opole Irena Majcher; Judge of Katowice Krystian Markiewicz; Judge of Gdansk Dorota Zabłudowska; Judge of Krakow Waldemar Żurek; Judge of Poznań Monika Frąckowiak; Judge of Warsaw Igor Tuley; Judge of Gdansk Włodzimierz Brazewicz; Judge of Gorzów Wielkopolski Olympia Barańsk-Małuszek; Judge of Łobza Arkadiusz Krupa; Judge of Warsaw Cezary Skwara; Judge of Elbląga Marek Omelan; Judge of Łódź Ewa Maciejewska; Judge of Gorzów Wielkopolski Alina Czubieniak; Judge of Poznań Bartłomiej Przymusński Rock, Jurka Owsiak Festival; Judge from Poznań Mariola Głowacka; Judge from Łódź Rafał Maciejewski; Judge from Gliwice Paweł Strumiński; Judge from Warsaw Małgorzata Kluziak; Judge from Warsaw Piotr Gąciarek; Judge from Warsaw Marek Celej; Judge from Sulęcina Bartłomiej Starosta; Judge from Łódź Paulina Sietrzykowska; Judge from Warsaw Andrzej Sterkowicz; Judge from Lublin Barbara Du Château; Judge from Warsaw Anna Bator-Ciesielska; Judge from Opola Monika Ciemiaga; Judge from Łódź Paulina Sietrzykowska; Judge from Warsaw Andrzej Sterkowicz; Judge from the State of Lublin Barbara Du Châtejewska; Judge from Warsaw, Olsztyna Paweł Juszczyn; Judge from Opola Monika Ciębia; Judge from Katowice; Judge from the State of Gór; Judge from Warsaw Doroty Doroty Góriek; Judge from the State of Warsaw; Judge from Lublin Barba Du Château; Judge from Warsaw; Judge from Warsaw; Judge from Warsaw It is my great honor and pride to mention all these judges and prosecutors because they are fighting for the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, which is not only crucial as a fundamental principle of democracy. It is crucial to defend Polish democracy today from a power that has clear goals: it wants to be sovereign and rule as long as possible, preferably forever. This plan has 2 obstacles: first, free media, second, free courts. That is why this power focuses its efforts on these 2 fields. To argue with the absent, unfortunately... It's kind of his thing. After saying very hard words, Mr. Senator Pop comes to the rest of the debate. Because he's ashamed of himself. I want to refer to 2 of him, too. The first issue was his appeal to respect the rules while accusing political opponents of anti-Polish and anti-state activities. He's from another generation, but I'd like to remind him of a song called Kaczmarski's Zegar, whose most delicate sentences sounded calmly appealing to the fury, for a diet of vegetables A man-eater. Similar entanglement of concepts to not say harsher It is in these calls of Senator Pęk, but also Senator Czerwiński, that we take care of Polish sovereignty. Poland's sovereignty is guaranteed and irrefutable. The fact that we have an obligation to comply with European rules on certain matters arises from our decisions, Senator. It's yours, because it's not ours. That's not true. Oh, that's very interesting! All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all That's very interesting. You give up... Mr. Senator, please calm down. Mr. and Mr. Senator Pop, you're saying this is a different legal order that we shouldn't submit to. You can also say that we have the right to impose duties on other countries at the moment. But we do not, as long as we are in the European Union. We committed ourselves to this. We can do this if we follow the path of Britain, that is, if we leave the European Union. If that's what you want, tell it to the people. Cannot Senator Borowski referred to this as breaking the rules of the European Union for as long as it is in it. And this is our decision, in this respect we are sovereign. We will be able to do things differently than the European Union wants, e.g. on the requirement of the independence of the courts if we leave it. And if that is what you want, say it honestly to the nation, and do not lie, for it is so that you, your party, may take under the shoes of judges and judgments, must suffer the whole nation. He doesn't have to! To conclude, I would like to refer to what Senator Libicki said because he said something very important. The PiS often correctly diagnoses the problems, sometimes dramatically rephrases them, but sometimes the diagnosis in its sources is correct. Senator Libicki also claims that anything after you diagnose these problems will reform, you will ruin it and that this is your spécialité de la maison. I think it's worse. Well, you follow the path that all populist and authoritarian regimes follow, from Putin to Maduro, through Orbán, through Erdoğan. So how do you find a case that is bearable and which you can sell to the nation as the one that you will fix? And sometimes it's the right thing... Mr. Senator, it's over. I'm almost done. ...that's what you say to the nation: give us power, money, positions and institutions, and we'll fix it. And after years, What can be seen from the failed deformity of the justice system in Poland, because it has been more than 4 years since now, only positions, offices and money remain here for you and your nominates, while nothing is fixed, everything works worse than before. And that's why... Again: this is the method of authoritarian populists. That's why I'm going to vote absolutely. And I call on all my fellow senators and colleagues to do the same. For the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u273	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Komorowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a senator who has no parliamentary experience and I cannot go back to what was before. I have self-government experience. In this Chamber, there is clearly a strong political dispute with regard to the fundamental issues of today's law around the judiciary, the third power, the justice system. This is the second debate on the judicial issues in which we are taking part. But I have the impression that this is only the beginning, because this main debate will only take place when this law on the amendment of the law on the KRS, on which the procession will begin next week. Very big emotions have emerged for this room. Maybe it's good sometimes, maybe it's... different. But I have the feeling that sometimes when we get out of this room, it's such a strong political dispute that I'm looking at this side, because that's what we normally talk about... Oh! ...no, neither are you. I have an example of this because I am in the Polish-French Parliamentary Group. On the occasion of President Macron's visit, we had dinner with French deputies, a few senators attended this meeting outside of me, Senator Seweryński, Senator Borowski, Senator Pociej. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Polish-French group with the ambassador of the French Republic, during which a summary of this visit took place. At these meetings, one can say, we speak almost with one voice, there is no political dispute there. It's like it shows that... well, so it's not such a picture that here, in the Senate, you don't know what's going on. I think that each of us is at the heart of the good of Poland and we are talking about this good of Poland at this moment. I'm on my way back to the resolution. This resolution is unacceptable because of its content in this version. And it's not about her title. It is unacceptable because it is simply the content of this resolution. It is, in my opinion, an attack on the authorities of the state and consequently on Poland. That's how I understand it. That's how I understand the resolution. That's how I take it. And if so, it can't be approved. The resolution could be adopted if it were slightly different, practically, you can say, already here one of the senators' colleagues said, untraceable. If it sounded like it. Yes: The Senate of the Republic of Poland is in favour of the independence of judges and the independence of the justice system, and it ended there, I would have signed, as it is said, with both hands, and I would have been surprised if someone had not signed such a resolution. If this were not the case, if there were no judicial independence, and this independence of the judge is that judges are subject only to constitutions and laws, it would endanger the stability of the state, it would be a threat. I don't know, you read everywhere that this independence doesn't exist. There are cases of judges, but this cannot be made clear by the content of this resolution, the way in which it was formulated. The essence of the political dispute, which followed both in the previous judicial debate and in this judicial debate, is the KRS. And what awaits us... As I say, I don't know if two days or three days are enough for a debate here. I suppose this debate on the National Judicial Council can go on almost indefinitely. We, as far as the sources of the law are concerned, This should also be added to what Senator Pociej said. We have regulations and local laws. We don't have court judgments in our sources, we're not in the common law system, it's in the Anglo-Saxon system. Courts don't make up the law. I have the impression that you would like some judges to make the law. There can't be that kind of interpretation. It is the constitution that defines the sources of law and the judicial judgment is not the source of the law. And if you disagree with the constitution... Well, the judge can, of course, examine and ask the Constitutional Court about the compatibility of the various provisions of laws, etc., but both the Senate Marshal and the 30 senators can apply to the Constitutional Tribunal. If you claim, in this debate or yesterday, that the constitutional provisions are being violated, that this is the result of the laws, then you must use those instruments which are, or are, to file a complaint with the Constitutional Tribunal. And in conclusion, here's what I'm going to say. Well, you're writing in the middle of this resolution. I say you write because I don't feel like an author and I'm definitely not voting for her. That, as a result of these actions, Poland ceases to be regarded internationally as a democratic state of law. Well, if that's what you're writing, then I don't know what you're basing it on. In order not to reach too far, I will give you an example of the last visit of the French President, Mr Macron. Well, he came and the visit took place. Besides, the ambassador's assessment was very positive when we talked about all these three levels. Well, I'm not gonna talk about these levels anymore, but he made a very good assessment of this visit. The signing not only of this general agreement, but also a number of other agreements testify against the provisions of this resolution, as well as the further actions of the presidents of Poland and France in the framework of the functioning of the European Union. That's all I'm saying. I would also ask the applicants to consider withdrawing this, to wait for this debate about the KRS, because this resolution in the situation where we are... We're starting next week. On Tuesday, we start our first reading of the bill on Thursday. Public hearing, hereinafter the third meeting of the committee, which is already established, etc., etc. I believe that at this stage this resolution is redundant, premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich. I remind you, you have five minutes. Four minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u276	Three minutes 56 seconds, please. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, for 4.5 years I have been actively involved in all discussions about the destruction of justice in Poland and I feel that we are now replaying all previous discussions. There is nothing new in this discussion about what we have been talking about since the first debate on the first attempt to assassinate the Constitutional Tribunal, which your colleagues took on here in 2015. This is absolutely nothing new, except for three points. First of all, which surprised me very much and at the same time amused me, I saw Senator Czerwinski referring to the constitution. For the first time, Senator, I see you with a constitution in your hand. So far, we have been the ones in these twenty-several debates who have referred to the constitution and I thought this was our specialty. You stopped. Exactly. Once again, gentlemen... Let's not get along. We quoted the articles of the Constitution precisely. On the occasion of any change, whether it is the Constitutional Tribunal Act, or the National Court Act, or the Supreme Court Act, or the General Court Law, we quoted it regularly, so that you can see which articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland you break, and that you break consciously. There are transcripts, there are records. The second difference is that Senator Pop hasn't yelled at us so far. At least I don't remember a screaming senator bursting, screaming a little bit like Gomulka, because that and similar thoughts, and a way of expressing himself similar. But this cry, this new way of being a senator, it just tells you that you have a feeling that your end is coming. The political one, of course. And you feel like you've committed a lot of sins. If someone screams, it means his conscience bites him. And this turning the cat tail in the release of Senator Pęk, whom we witnessed today, complete, such in the Orwellian spirit, is just an illustration of the principle expressed by your classic, namely that no one we No one in this case It doesn't convince that black is black and white is white. There's one more thing. And it's pretty serious right now. - which differs today's and previous debate on the muzzle law from many of those that were in the previous term. There's no police in Parliament, there's no police bitches under our windows. Remember that country that was in the previous term of office? I was showing these pictures on the laptop screen to make sure you got a fix on it. As police bitches stood under the windows of the Senate, and at the end there was always an ambulance, as I appealed on behalf of our club to suspend the sitting until police bitches were removed from the territory of the Sejm and the Senate. Mr. Senator, one minute. And there's not one more thing. There are no women out cold, in the cold, at the command of the Marshal, hence, outside the Senate door just because they have developed a banner with passwords in defence of the rule of law. It's gone, and I hope it never happens again. These are the embarrassing moments your club is responsible for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u277	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Remind me. 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u278	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Of course, I will not refer to all the elements of the discussion, because there is no time for this, only to the 2, 3 most important. I must also fulfill the will of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, who wanted me to read the entire draft resolution. I read it, but in two parts. One thing has slipped away, and I would like, for the integrity of the report, that this is the only sentence that has slipped away, but here it has sounded. It's about the integrity of this message. This sentence was actually very important, so I will quote it: "Recognizing the public's need for reform of the justice system, the Senate of the Republic of Poland draws attention to the negative effects of the changes made for citizens and legal entities. So that the tip was correct, while this start was actually minimally modified From negative to positive... And now some answers. Mr Senator pointed out that he did not really see what one important sentence was saying: Poland is no longer considered a democratic rule of law on the international stage. I was in the European Parliament for the entire previous term of office and watched this depreciation of our position. This did not mean that Poland would automatically be considered an undemocratic state. That's not the way it is now. But practically every year opinions appeared, suggestions were made, in some cases also decisions that indicated how much we lost in this dimension. Today, discussing this resolution here... It was precisely at that time that a decision was made or information was made that Norway refused to sign the agreement to hand over hundreds of millions of zlotys to the Minister of Justice. What's the reason? The threat of the rule of law, nothing more, the threat of the rule of law. I stress that this already has a financial dimension, and I also draw attention to this. It's worth getting off this path because these costs are starting to be real. Being in the European Parliament, I have seen very well what Brussels bureaucracy looks like Free, expensive, extremely absorbing machine, but I would never allow myself to undermine the work of such institutions as for example. It's the TSUE. If I invited the Venice Commission to express its opinion, I would try to take this opinion into account. Unfortunately, it wasn't. There were also detailed, retail comments, e.g. on the part of Senator Czerwiński, who pointed out that the recognition of the rights of the judiciary to properly represent its own professional group means demanding a trade union. That's not true. We are aware that the trade union is a representation very strictly defined in our legislation, but the concept of self-government does not have to end in a trade union. The student council... Kids don't belong in a union. I'm in the KRS, which has been treated or is treated as a union of judges. I'm not a judge. So I'm paying attention to the need to be gentle with these terms... Mr. Senator, one more minute. ...because we're gonna have trouble with this final grade, too. Finally, I would like to make it clear that we want to include, and not exclude the constitution, as this most important document, our position in restoring respect to the profession we are doing, as well as in building such conditions and such an atmosphere, in order to rebuild the authority that is necessary for Poland and our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Michael Kaminski, I remind you of five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I allow myself to speak for the second time in today's debate, because after I left the stand, I read the information given by Mr Giertych, who was also celebrating his birthday today, and then confirmed it. I'll share it with you in a minute. This information specifically justifies the resolution that this Senate will adopt. This is because yesterday in Szczecin, during the trial of our colleague Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, one of the witnesses of the accusation of the senator publicly, under the rigour of criminal liability for false testimony... Tragic, tragic. ...discovered that he was being persuaded by the D.A.'s office to give false testimony against the opposition senator. In the Seym... I'm sorry, there were words in the courtroom that Senator Stanisław Gawłowski was the subject of unlawful actions by the prosecutor who tried to force his testimony against him. Moreover, the person who did this apologized to the senator yesterday and revealed that the prosecution required her to report falsely to the opposition Members. Ladies and gentlemen, your policy has led to the fact that the only prosecutor in Poland who is not prohibited from being a member of a political party is the Attorney General. Not only is he a member of the political party, but he is also its leader. And here today are those people who haven't responded publicly to a very serious accusation of trying to compromise opposition policy by unlawful actions... The same people would still join the arsenal of their fight against opposition with the courts? No! The entire phraseology about court repair in the face of facts was ruined. For here we see why we need control over the justice system. What happened yesterday in Szczecin clearly shows not to clean anything, but to have control. And the essence of our freedom, that I will repeat these words, is also that people who have different views than the current power must be absolutely sure that they will not be unjustly persecuted for their political views. The only thing that politicians and ordinary citizens in Poland should be responsible for in court is crime, not belief.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that in Poland there are basically 3 groups of judges, because there were 3 waves of appointing judges. The first group, sitting in district courts and regional courts, is a group of about 770 judges. These are the judges who have been appointed by the PRL of the State Council. The second group is a group that has been appointed as a judge in the context of the procedures after the 1989 amendments, and thus after the opinion of the National Council for Judicial Affairs and the appointment of the President. The third group, which at the moment is challenged by some judges of the first two groups, is the group which was set up at the request of the National Courts Council, which was established on the basis of the revised rules for the formation of the National Courts Council. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal issued a verdict in 2018 according to which the National Judicial Council did not meet the constitutional criteria of its term of office in 2000 and 2017. Therefore, if we listened carefully to this discussion, which is currently taking place in Poland, we could say that the doubts regarding the procedure for the appointment of judges concern not only, as the opposition claims, the judges appointed by the last resolutions of the National Council of Judicial Affairs and appointed by the President, but also those judges who were appointed on the basis of the resolutions of the National Council of Judicial Affairs and appointed by the subsequent presidents in the years 20002017, precisely because there are doubts about the term of office of those judges who were then in the National Courts Board. So we see that the situation is extremely complicated. I am surprised that Senator Borowski is questioning the judicial status of Judge Nawatski, who was appointed as Judge in the previous regime or procedure, at the request of the previous National Judicial Council. Why am I talking about this? Because this resolution is full of contradictions, it is inconsistent, it is political. She is to harm Poland in the international arena, she is gaining confidence in the Polish state, and we are a member of the European Union. From this point of view, it was created exclusively on a political order, and there is no substantive justification. Let me give you one example. We read in this project that the changes made with regard to the National Judicial Council have made this authority highly dependent on the executive authority. Such a statement is in this resolution. Here, too, you refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Do you know how the judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union are appointed? Government nominations. Please don't try on others... Government nominations. In light of this... What does that have to do with anything? Calm down, please. It has a lot to do with it, because it shows that the body that you are presenting in the light of this position is not a court itself, because it is dependent on the executive authority, makes a decision. It shows this absurdity associated with this resolution and this... That's right, it's a Tyrolean hat for a Kraków outfit... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, would you mind if I... Ladies and gentlemen, please do not argue with the speaker. You're welcome. I'm sorry. This shows this absurdity which we have now on the occasion of this resolution, she gives, in my opinion, not a very glorious testimony to the Senate X term. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, can we get a replica on the way? The senator didn't mention... Mr. Senator, right now? Because you... Yeah, 'cause I'd like to... Okay, but from a point of view, do you want to approach? On the spot, on the spot. Okay, just turn on the mike.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u284	On the spot and on the short side. Mr. Senator Jackowski, this is how you don't take part in the debate... But all the time... ...only you go somewhere, you don't know where, you listen to one ear and you don't really hear it. I didn't say... At no time did I question Mr. Nawatski's status as a judge. I just said I wouldn't call him a judge because this title has to be earned. It was about his discrediting behaviour and how he became a member of the National Council of Courts. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u285	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Frankly, I wasn't going to speak because I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist. It's hard for me to speak on legal matters, because I think everyone should talk about things that they know more or less. But listening to this debate and those arguments that have been used, often very demagogical, unfair, lying... Well, maybe you'd have to say something from the heart, though as an illegal, and somehow refer to it. That's the first line. Second line. You asked me very much to speak, Minister Michał Wójcik, whom I met by accident today. He was talking about this tweet that was manipulated, and he was showing me texts, offensive, disgusting texts that he got. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you another question. I think everyone here, my colleagues, and in the previous term, and... well, mostly in the previous term, because there was a little less in this one. So we had to listen to statements of the type addressed to us. It was directed at my address and at my colleagues or colleagues. And I didn't steal from anyone, I didn't rape anyone, I didn't kill anyone. Mr. Pociej isn't here... On what grounds does someone talk to me and my friends in such an abusive way? I can vote anyway. And you may agree with how I vote, or you may disagree, but to say that someone is going to sit down for voting for one or the other act is just scandalous. And I have not heard the statements of the Senators of the Civic Platform, who would say such words and such names, which at our address are formulated, condemned, did not hear anyone condemn it. Another point that I would like to say is the interpretation that we have made. Because we've done some interpretation of the constitution that you're waving. I'm not a lawyer, but I can read with understanding. And it's written there, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about the KRS. That the manner in which the National Courts of Justice are to be appointed will be determined by a law. And the Law and Justice or the Ministry of Justice made such an interpretation and proposed such a way of choosing judges. This law was the subject of an evaluation by the Constitutional Court. If you disagree, you should have, Mr. Senator Borowski. I don't know if you've passed this constitution, to write it very precisely, and then we don't have that issue. After all, the essence of the law and the constitution, and the Court, and the courts is some interpretation of the law. Of course, she's subject to some kind of verification. And I haven't met today, apart from political evaluations, whether this interpretation is right or wrong... I'm not a lawyer. I don't want to judge here. But reading the constitution as a layman... Well, it's just that the legislature, the Sejm and the Senate, has made some interpretation. If today Senator Borowski says that this is where the underlings of the Minister of Justice signed these letters and there are nine people there, 15... that there are no signatures... Well, Mr. Senator, you should have written it down in the constitution... Or maybe not: it would have to be added first that those subordinates of Minister Ziobra were former judges, not officials. It had to be written in the Constitution that judges could not be posted to the Ministry of Justice. How the former Ministers of Justice of the SLD or Platforms I don't remember names anymore, but I'm sure Mr. Cimoszewicz, Mr. Jaskiernia The judges were also posted to the Ministry of Justice. Was it outrageous? Former Minister Czuma, I believe today's Senator Kwiatkowski... He was a minister of justice. It was done in their day, too. Well, now... I'd even say that he went up to the next level... the left... I can't remember if Mr. Cimoszewicz was Prime Minister at the time, whether Mr. Belka or Mr. Miller, because I didn't check it out. Well, an active judge became a minister of justice, Mrs. Basement. Well, don't say that today those judges who are posted to the Ministry of Justice are some bad judges, worse judges, more submissive. Because if we accept that interpretation, then... They were also under the authority of Minister Jaskierna, Minister Czuma of the Platform and Mr Cimoszewicz. And then it was okay? Is it bad today? Well, did you create a state, because I was a student at the time, as the constitution was passed? It's a system. If you do not like this system, make changes to the Constitution, not today accuse Law and Justice of breaking some rules. And the psychic statements, which, unfortunately, were very much... I looked at the video last night and listened to some of the speeches, and today, and yesterday, as Mr. Bodnar spokesperson. Well, if someone from abroad who doesn't know the reality in Poland listened to it, he might say that Stalin and Hitler were very sympathetic people in today's rule of law and justice. You said it. Ladies and gentlemen... Then maybe you're right. Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask... I would very much ask you not to discuss it from the room. If after four years... In yesterday's discussion, your marshal spoke very emotionally about some person who, as a result of police intervention in an illegal demonstration, had a broken arm. I'm really sorry about this, because I'm sure something like this shouldn't have happened. Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, if this sadism of law and justice, Jarosław Kaczyński, Ziobra, Morawiecki, is that one protester for four years, who, as a result of unfortunate police intervention, suffered a broken arm... See how he intervenes, so to speak, the French police. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't discuss this with the senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You'll be able to, of course. Senator Borowski, probably as usual. Some replica, so to speak, apply to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these thesis about lawlessness, about some threat of democracy that you write into this resolution, the thesis completely untrue, once again... Well, you have a majority today, so probably this resolution will be taken, but one day we will, as Poles, be ashamed that such a resolution If it is taken, it shall be taken into account. It was taken by the Senate. Because we really live in a free and democratic country and the fact that such resolutions can be prepared today, so criticized, is the best guarantee of freedom and democracy that we have in Poland today. Thank you. Shoot...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u287	Thank you very much. And here you are, Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u288	Mrs. Marshal, I did not intend to speak in the discussion, but it is impossible to move on to the agenda of certain speeches by the Senators of Law and Justice, when they accuse us of wrong intentions or some completely incomprehensible, unseemly intentions during a public debate. Not only is it our right, but it is our duty to speak whenever we think that Parliament should speak in a public debate, if this concerns the good of the Republic of Poland, the future of the Polish state and the sovereign, although it is better that we define the sovereign nation. We simply take seriously the oath we took in this Chamber, we swore that we would serve the Republic, that we would be faithful to the laws and constitutions and that we would take care of the welfare of the nation and the welfare of the state. And we feel it as our daily duty. This resolution is an expression of concern that in a democratic state of law, the judicial system, the independence of courts and the independence of judges are a pillar of the rule of law. It is an essential component of the three divisions of power, i.e. those values and ideals that we have fought for in recent generations and which we are currently trying to waste and destroy through the five-year activity of the power camp. We take seriously the concern for the citizen and his right to a fair and transparent settlement of the case by an independent court, appointed properly, independently and impartially. The resolution is a sign of concern for the citizen to face the seriousness of the state and to be sure that he will be judged fairly and independently. I will reach to the history of Poland and the last few decades, when one party took over the entire public space and the justice system was the tool of this party. You are leading your activities to the fact that we must return history to the times of the Polish People's Republic, when the good of the party was the good of the nation. What you are proposing and what you are saying in this Chamber, that our intentions and our activities are anti-Polish or anti-state, is a charge that should not be imposed in this Chamber. Our intention is, has always been and will remain, because we are faithful to the oath we have made here... We care about the future of a country whose pillar must be independent and independent judiciary in the interests of the citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u290	Dear Marshal, three minutes. To a very sympathetic senator Mr. Frost. Mr. Senator, you've done such a surprising logic trick. The resolution for which we should be ashamed is, according to you, a proof of the functioning of democracy in Poland. Well, that's a surprising logic trick for me. That's the first line. Two. You argued with the wrong thesis that fell from that platform. You're not only a sympathetic man, you're also a smart man. And so, as I've sucked up like that, I have to say that no one here has questioned the fact that the judges are called to work at the Ministry of Justice. They were there and are appointed, and when they work at the Ministry of Justice, their judicial function is suspended, they are officials of the Ministry of Justice. We questioned that they were the first ones to sign the letters of support for the candidates for KRS members. That was questioned. Horrible. And that's not right, Senator. That's all I want to tell you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u291	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. The third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I'm ordering a recess until 7:45 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 16 to 19 minutes 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u292	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next sixth session of the Senate was convened on 12 and 13 March 2020. This meeting will begin on Thursday 12 March at 11 a.m. The order of business of this meeting has been provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 62. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously the draft resolution of the Senate at its meeting on 4 February, which I recommend to the High House. The Senate of the Republic of Poland dismisses Senator Bogdan Borusewicz from the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Artur Dunin from the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Stanisław Ożog from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jack Włosowicz from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland elects Senator Bogdan Borusewicz to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski to the Committee on the Environment, Senator Artur Dunin to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Stanisław Ożog to the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u294	Thank you very much, senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 95 Senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the budget law for 2020. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 70 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I present a report. The Commission, after examining the amendments tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and in plenary, recommends that the High House adopt the amendments contained in the section II, and these are amendments 1, 3, 4, 6 At the same time, I inform the High House that a minority of committees are asking for a law without amendments. As there were some doubts at the meeting of the finance committee about the amounts, the total amounts of amendments that have been made, I would like to inform the High House... These doubts emerged because the Ministry of Finance probably miscalculated the amounts that make up all the amendments. Therefore, I would like to inform you that in total, as a result of the amendments which received the recommendation of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the revenue of the state budget will increase by PLN 5 billion 688 million 580 thousand, i.e. about half of what resulted from the calculations of the Minister at the meeting. And the second important information, perhaps more important: together, amendments that concern special provisions will not exceed 5% the limit on special-purpose reserves, as the total special-purpose reserves amount to PLN 21 billion 767 million, and together with the amendments it is less than PLN 0.5 billion. So this safeguard, this condition has also been fulfilled in the amendments prepared by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u296	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. [[Applause]] But wait for what he says. The exit itself is an event.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u297	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to focus, because we have a lot of votes ahead. It's called trust. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this information, which the rapporteur presented. The amendments provided for an increase in budget revenue of 12 billion. Five billion... After the meeting, the proposed amendments provided for 12 billion, as calculated by the Ministry of Finance. The senator represents an increase in the budget by 5 billion 680 million. I would like to inform the High Senate that the finance minister present at the meeting informed us that the government does not see the possibility of increasing revenue by this amount. That's the first piece of information. Second information, very important. The amendments provide for a reduction of PLN 2 billion in debt support, which in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance will prevent the proper execution of the Treasury debt service in 2020. Finally, the target reserves for co-financing European Union projects are reduced by 1 billion 700 million, which will also make it difficult or impossible to implement planned EU projects. And the fourth issue that my previous speaker referred to. The calculations presented by the Minister for Finance show that the target reserves are increased by 9 billion, representing 6.24% the planned amount in the budget, and this is not in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 3 Public Finance Act, which states that the sum of the special-purpose reserves must not exceed 5% the budget. From the information that we have received and which I am handing over to you... The Minister of Finance has provided such information to the minutes. I hope that the minority proposal in this House will be supported. We have always taken care of the sustainability of public finances and these amendments, which have been tabled, these 104 amendments do not serve the sustainability of public finances. I'm filing for a bill without amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u298	Thank you. In corrigendum mode. Please, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All of the volumes that I gave you, the information that says that all of these sizes are within the standards of the Public Finance Act and are in fact twice as low as you gave Senator Bierecki... This was agreed by our Legislative Office together with the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u300	In replica mode... Please, Mr. Senator, but I must warn you, I will not open a debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u301	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague probably didn't hear me say it. I was talking about a 12 billion increase in budget revenues, which provided for complex amendments... They didn't predict... [[Talking in the O.R.]] That information was provided by the Ministry. I think... He's lying... 5.6... I think that word lie should be deleted, Mr. Marshal, from the record because... Definitely, definitely. I presented the information we received at the meeting. Senator Kleina refers to the information he received after the meeting. Thank you very much... Anyway, I want it to sound like this: we agree that the increase in budget revenue by 5 billion 680 million as a result of these amendments is followed and according to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance... The Ministry of Finance does not see the possibility of such an increase. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u302	Thank you very much. I have the impression that the senators have enough knowledge of the budget to express their opinion in the vote. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Excuse me, one second... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u303	I would just like to ask all my fellow Members very much, even though the Committee on Amendments 57, 58 and 59, on the increase in the budget of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman, objected... I would very much ask for a vote in favour. At the same time, I would like to express my joy that today I see Senator Skurkiewicz, who yesterday thought that listening to the information of the Minister of Health was ridiculous and a little... The day before yesterday. The day before yesterday... And a little dangerous... That's what I think. I would like to say that the explanations of the senator, Minister Kraska, were very interesting, very important. Mr President followed the Senate and also asked to convene a special meeting on this matter. What does that have to do with anything? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u304	This is not the subject of this point. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be able to read as soon as possible, so I ask you to focus, because we are voting on very important things for your finances. I would like to inform you that during the discussion, the conclusions were made by pleno titulo senators: Kleina, Morawska-Stanecka, Rotnicka, Szejnfeld, Rybicki, Frankiewicz, Chybicka, Brejza, Gorgon-Komor, Małecka-Libera, Arndt, Nebula, Pęcherz, Kaminski, Borusewicz, Kobiak, Czarnobaj, Libicki, Jazłowiecka, Godyla, Pociej, Wcisła, Kochan, Komarnicki, Świlski, Sekuła, Dunin, Kwiatkowski, Bober, Bosacki, Bury, Bieda. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the request of minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 44 votes against, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. And once again, I call for focus so that I don't have to use the article. 47 and call to order. Amendment No 1 excepts the vote on Amendment No 2 to create a new special reserve for the financing of health policy programmes for the treatment of cancer, with the amount of grants and subsidies of PLN 1 billion 920 million, the cost of reducing the overall budget reserve by PLN 50 million, the current expenditure of the National Council of Radiophony and Television by 20 million, the current expenditure of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers by PLN 50 million, the expenditure on the operation of the Treasury debt by PLN 600 million, the co-financing of projects involving the European Union by EUR 600 million, the funding of certain tasks continued by 350 million, the funds to maintain the results of certain projects implemented with the contribution of EUR 200 million and the special reserve for systemic changes and some organisational changes by EUR 50 million. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-six senators voted... [[Applause]] ...52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 2 is therefore excluded. Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No... About... I'm listening to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u305	On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal. Can information about amendments be limited to what money is spent on and no longer read from what sources? Because often these sources are very many.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u306	Unfortunately, I'm against it. Amendment 3 increases the revenue of the state budget to increase the educational part of the general subsidy for local government units by PLN 4 billion 605 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Adoption of Amendment 4 excludes voting on Amendment 5. Amendment 4 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 25 million and reduces the current expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance by PLN 25 million, with the allocation of these funds for development aid. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 reduces the overall budget reserve by PLN 5 million for State Labour Inspection expenditure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 7 reduces the current expenditure of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister by PLN 3 million 500 thousand, the current expenditure of the ABW by PLN 3 million 740 thousand and the current expenditure within the framework of the part of foreign affairs by PLN 200 000, with the allocation of these funds for the current expenditure of the Senate Chancellery. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 8 aims to restore to the Senate the amount of PLN 110 million 500 000 to carry out tasks in the field of care of Polish people and Poles abroad. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 53 votes against, 41 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] Bravo! [[Applause]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9 reduces the current expenditure of the President of the Republic of Poland by PLN 6 million for the expenditure of the Ombudsman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 10 aims to create a new special reserve for air pollution emissions (with smog) with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 1 billion, at the cost of reducing expenditure on the Treasury debt by 450 million, of co-financing projects involving EU funds by 400 million, of funding for certain tasks to be continued by 50 million, of measures to maintain the results of certain projects implemented with EU funds by 50 million and of a special reserve for systemic changes and of certain organisational changes by 50 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment accepted. Attention, Amendment 11 will rule out voting on Amendment 12. Amendment 11 aims to create a new special-purpose reserve for the financing of the own tasks of local self-government units, where national parks or nature reserves occupy more than 30% of the area of these units, with the amount of grants and subsidies of PLN 150 million and property expenditure of PLN 50 million, at the expense of a reduction in funding for certain tasks continued by PLN 100 million and for the maintenance of the results of certain projects carried out with the participation of EU funds by PLN 100 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 12 is therefore excluded. That's 90 more. Amendment 13 aims to create a new special-purpose reserve for the European Solidarity Centre, with the amount of grants and subsidies of PLN 3 million, at the expense of the special-purpose reserve for systemic changes and certain organisational changes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 1 for, 93 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Correction denied. Amendment 14 reduces the co-financing of projects involving European Union funds by 70 million for the construction of the S11 expressway of the saw and estuary ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 15 reduces the co-financing of projects involving EU funds by 5 million for the modernisation of the historic steam station in Pile. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 16 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 15 million for the construction of the so-called. The Red Way in Gdynia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 17 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million for the construction of the ring road from Sośnicowice, PLN 10 million for the integration of the ring road from Sośnicowice into the system leading to the A4 motorway and further to the western ring road of Gliwice, as well as PLN 10 million for the inclusion of the ring road from Sośnicowice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 18 aims to create a new special-purpose reserve called the National Alzheimer's Programme with the amount of grants and grants of PLN 10 million, at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance by this amount. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 94 Senators voted, 52 for, 40 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 19 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 12 million 300 thousand for the construction of the S52 expressway on the section of Bielsko-Biała Głogoczów. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 52 for, 42 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 20 reduces expenditure on handling the Treasury debt by PLN 10 million for the construction of the link between the expressway S1 and the national road No 94. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 52 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 21 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 38 million for the construction of the road connecting S1 expressway with Euroterminal in Sławkow. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 22 aims to create a new special reserve for the creation of the National Railway Museum in Gniezno. Modernization of the historic steam station, with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 10 million, at the expense of reducing the provision for systemic change and certain organisational changes by this amount. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 23 aims to create a new special reserve for social consultations in connection with the planned establishment of the Częstochowa voivodship, with the amount of grants and grants of PLN 1 million, at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the President's Office by this amount. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 49 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 24 reduces the co-financing of projects involving the European Union by PLN 20 million for the construction of the road node of the Polish Army Avenue The national road No 1 together with the new course of the national road No 46 in Częstochowa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 96 senators voted, 52. for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment No 25 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million for the expansion of the Municipal Football Stadium in Częstochowa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against 44, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 26 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve. Adam Mickiewicz in Częstochowa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 27 reduces expenditure on handling the Treasury debt by PLN 26 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the S12 expressway from the Sieradz junction to the western border of the country. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 94 senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 28 reduces expenditure on handling the Treasury's debt by PLN 30 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the national road No. 25 Ostrów Wielkopolski Kalisz, the node of the Prayer along with the ring road Kalisz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 96 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 29 reduces expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt by PLN 100 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the S25 expressway, the agglomeration of Ostrów Wielkopolski Kalisz, including the completion of the Skalmierzyc ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 30 reduces expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt by PLN 150 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the expressway S11 Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 96 senators voted, 52. for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 31 increases the revenue of the State budget by PLN 100 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve for the financing of African swine fever. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 95 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 32 reduces the current expenditure of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister by PLN 1 million for the creation of a new special reserve for iconography, frescoes, in the Church of St. Sofia of God's Wisdom in Warsaw. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] [[Applause]] Amendment 33 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 50 million to finance work on the E65 railway section of Będzin Katowice I'm sorry, I'm Chekhovice-Dziedzice Zebrzedowice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 34 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 50 million for the construction of the S1 expressway on the section Bielsko-Biała Costowy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 94 senators voted, 50 for, 43 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Attention, the vote on Amendment 35, only if Amendment 13 is rejected, which has been rejected. Amendment No 35 reduces the provision for systemic changes and some organisational changes by PLN 3 million 700 000 for the creation of a new special reserve for the European Solidarity Centre. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 36 increases the revenue of the state budget by 29 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called "Building Campus of the Bydgoszcz Academy of Music." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators, 50 votes against, 43 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 37 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 38 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 3 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve: Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 39 increases by PLN 30 million property expenditure on national public roads for the extension of the national road No 25 between Bydgoszcz and Inowroclaw at the expense of reducing expenditure on the operation of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 50 voted in favour, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 40 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 8 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called the Nova Opera Expansion in Bydgoszcz It's the fourth circle. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 46 votes against, 44 against and 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 41 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 16 million 500 thousand for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called the Pomeranian Philharmonic Expansion in Bydgoszcz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 48 votes against, 45 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment No 42 increases the revenue of the budget by PLN 1 million 500 000 for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called the "Sluice renovation," including in Bydgoszcz, on the E70 waterway: from the Brdy River to the Odry River. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 43 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 5 million for the opening of a new special-purpose reserve. Financial resources for the documentation of the reconstruction of the national road No. 25 in section Inowroclaw, Bydgoszcz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 44 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 30 million for the construction of the S10 expressway in Bydgoszcz section Toruń. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 45 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 80 million for the reconstruction of the national road No 80 within the Bydgoszcz border. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 46 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 30 million for the development of technical documentation of 2 bypasses on the national road No 55 in Kwidzyn and Malbork. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 52 votes against, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 47 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the reconstruction programme of the Liva River in the Kwidzyńska Lowlands. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 48 amends the financial plan of the Physical Culture Development Fund, increasing by PLN 45 million for social programmes in tourism, reactivation of school tourism wheels and for tourism for disabled people, people of retirement age and children and young people undergoing rehabilitation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 54 votes for, 40 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 49 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 100 000 for the creation of a new special reserve for the mobile X-ray station for the Independent Public Health Care Facility in Oborniki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 52 votes for, 41 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 50 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 700,000 for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve for the purchase of a stationary X-ray station for the Independent Public Health Care Facility in Obornice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 52 votes for, 41 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 51 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 500 000 for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve for an ambulance for the Independent Public Health Care Facility in Oborniki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 49 votes against, 42 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 52 creates a new special-purpose reserve for the restoration of the reservoir with the amount of subsidies and subsidies of PLN 20 million, at the expense of the increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 43 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] I'm saying we're past halfway through. Amendment 53 creates a new special reserve for the elimination of architectural barriers in the Franciscan Fathers' church in Poznań at ul. Garbars for academic pastoral ministry with the amount of property expenses of PLN 300 000, at the expense of a special reserve for co-financing projects carried out with the participation of the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 48 votes for, 44 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 54 adds a new special-purpose reserve for the Renovation and maintenance of the Gothic Cathedral on the occasion of the increase of the Holy Cross in Opole, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 20 million, at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 48 votes for, 44 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 55 increases by PLN 25 million the expenditure on national public roads for the construction of the southern ring road of Opole with crossing from Odra at the expense of increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 56 increases the current expenditure of the Supreme Court by 14 million at the expense of current expenditure and property expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance and units subordinate to the Institute. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 57 increases the current expenditure of the Constitutional Tribunal by 254 000 at the expense of the current expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted against, 6 against, 89 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 58 increases the Ombudsman's current expenditure by 20 million at the expense of current expenditure and property expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance and the entities subordinate to that institute. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted against, 6 against, 87 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 59 increases the current expenditure of the Office for Personal Data Protection by 3 million 500 000 at the expense of the current expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 1 in favour, 91 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 61]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 60 increases by 100 million zlotys, please focus This appropriation is intended to cover the implementation of a multi-annual programme called the construction of a waterway linking the Vistula Bay to the Gulf of Gdansk for the adaptation of the port of Elbląg. The aim is to deepen the watercourse and the port basins, to enlarge the turntable, to expand the waterfront. I measure the parameters of the channel at the expense of reducing the current expenses of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 8 for, 84 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 61 increases by PLN 4 million the expenditure on national public roads for the construction of the S5 expressway in section Nowe Drzemy (A1) - Ostróda (S7) at the expense of reducing current expenditure of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 62 increases by PLN 50 million the expenditure on national public roads for construction of national road No. 16 at the expense of the increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 63 increases expenditure on national public roads for construction of national road No 16 at the expense of increased revenue of the state budget by PLN 30 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 64 increases by PLN 2 million the expenditure on national public roads for the construction of the north-eastern ring road Olsztyn on the national road 51 at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 65 increases expenditure on national public roads for the construction of the Good City ring road on national road 51 at the expense of the increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 66 increases expenditure on national public roads for the reconstruction of national road 51 at the expense of increased revenue from the state budget by PLN 6 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 67 increases expenditure on national public roads for construction of national road 53 at the expense of increased revenue from the state budget by PLN 3 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 68 increases expenditure on national public roads for the construction of the Szczytno ring road by PLN 3 million on national road 53 at the expense of the increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 69 increases expenditure on national public roads for the reconstruction of national road No 53 on Korpele section by PLN 2 million At the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the NAP. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 70 increases expenditure on national public roads for the modernisation of the Giżycko ring road on national road No 59 and national road No 63 at the expense of increased revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment No 71 at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt adds a new special-purpose reserve called "The implementation of tasks from the 2nd stage of the Żuław's Comprehensive Flood Protection Programme in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship with the amount of current expenditure of PLN 30 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 72 increases by PLN 120 million subsidies and subsidies for the protection of monuments and the care of monuments in Warmia-Mazury voivodship at the expense of increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 4 votes against, 90 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 73 creates a new special-purpose reserve called "Building and reconstruction of infrastructure on the Great Masurian Lakes waterways" with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 10 million at the expense of increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 74 creates a new special-purpose reserve for Elbląg Provincial Hospital infrastructure for cardiology and oncology, with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 20 million at the expense of the special-purpose reserve for co-financing projects carried out with the participation of European Union funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 53 votes against, 42 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 75 increases expenditure on national public roads by PLN 5 million for the preparation of project documentation for the construction of the Western Road Obbe of Szczecin at the expense of increased revenue of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 76 adds a new special reserve called the Polish Theatre in Szczecin and modernization of the historic building of the Polish Theatre in Szczecin, together with the necessary infrastructure, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 15 million at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 50 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 77 adds a new special-purpose reserve for the construction of the seat of the Regional Emergency Service Station in Szczecin with the amount of property expenses of PLN 10 million at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 78 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 131 million 778 thousand for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called "Risings for judicial staff in the amount of PLN 300 gross per month to the basic salary." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 79 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 for, 44 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 80 increases the current expenditure of the Main Office of Measures by PLN 6 million at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the National Radio and Television Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 82]] Amendment 81 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 12 million 200 thousand for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve called "Reconstruction of the Tczewski Bridge" It's stage IIA. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 83]] Amendment 82 increases by PLN 5 million property expenditure on national public roads for the execution of S1 express road documentation in the Sosnowiec region At the expense of reducing expenditure on Treasury debt management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 83 increases by PLN 10 million property expenditure on infrastructure for the completion of the reconstruction of Sosnowiec Macka railway station, at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment No.84 increases by PLN 10 million the property expenditure on railway infrastructure for the completion of the Road Diameter Route in the area of Janów and Bór junction, at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 against, 45 against. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 85 adds a new special-purpose reserve for the Polish Mother's Health Center Hospital with the amount of property expenses of PLN 10 million, at the expense of the reduction of current IPN expenditure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 52 votes for, 41 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 86 adds a special-purpose reserve for the disposal of hazardous waste in Zgierz ♪ The stage ♪ ♪ And, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 10 million, at the expense of reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 54 for, 40 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 87 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the construction of 3 additional road junctions on the expressway S14 of the western ring road Łódź. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 56 for, 38 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 89]] Amendment 88 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the construction of the road crossing over the E20 railway line in Kutno. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 56 for, 40 against. [[Voting No 90]] Amendment 89 adds a new special-purpose reserve called "Hospice construction in the Łódź voivodship," with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 10 million, at the expense of reducing current IPN expenditure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 54 for, 34 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 91]] Amendment 90 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the construction of the Łowicz ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 42 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 92]] Amendment 91 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the modernisation of road viaducts in Łódź. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 54 for, 40 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 92 increases by PLN 10 million property expenditure on railway infrastructure for the construction of a railway tunnel in Tomaszów Mazowiecki, at the expense of reducing expenditure on handling the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 42 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 93 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the creation of a new special reserve for buildings in Łódź, Pabianice, Zgierz and Tomaszów Mazowiecki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51, 42 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 94 adds a new special-purpose reserve called "Revitalization of Łódź monuments of history with a special historical value, among others. Poznań Palace and the historic complex of K. Schreiblera with the amount of expenses... Scheibler. Scheibler. Scheibler. Scheibler. ... With the amount of property expenditure of PLN 10 million, at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the NAP. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 40 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 95 increases by PLN 10 million the property expenditure on railway infrastructure for the reconstruction of the railway stop in Żurawia in the municipality of Biała Rawska, at the expense of reducing expenditure on handling the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 7 for, 85 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 97]] Amendment 96 adds a new special reserve called "Revitalization of the Universal Theatre in Łódź" Polish Comedy Center The Regional Education Centre, with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 10 million, at the expense of the reduction of current expenditure of IPN. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 votes, 41 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 97 increases by PLN 250 million the State budget for lending to local government units in the framework of resolution or prudential proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 49 for, 44 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 98 adds a new special-purpose reserve called "Construction of a road viaduct in the street." Lutycka in Poznań as part of the task: Construction of a collision-free crossing with railway line No 354 in the vicinity of ul. Lutician in Poznań with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 20 million, at the expense of reducing current CBA expenditure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 43 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 100]] Amendment 99 increases the revenue of the State for the creation of a new special reserve called the Warta bridge on the newly designed Luboń district road with the amount of property expenses of PLN 40 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 101]] Amendment No 100 increases the revenue of the state budget for the creation of a new special reserve for the Lublin Land Oncology Centre. St. Jan of Dukla with the amount of property expenses of PLN 40 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 57 for, 38 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 102]] Amendment 101 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 30 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the first stage of the North Bytom ring road Okay, let's go, let's It's noon. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 and 43 against, and 1 abstained. [[Voting No 103]] Amendment 102 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 3 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve for steam and narrow rail bytom Tarnowskie Góry, Silesian Town and maintenance of connections. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 104]] It's a steam truck. Amendment 103 increases by PLN 30 million property expenditure on national public roads for the extension of the national road No 15 between Inowroclaw and Torun at the expense of reducing expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 105]] Amendment 104 increases by PLN 20 million property expenditure on national public roads for the construction of the Strzelna and Kruszwica ring road at the expense of reducing expenditure on handling the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 106]] No more voting on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 2 against, 42 abstentions. [[Voting No 107]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the budget law for 2020. [[Applause]] We return to the second agenda: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 69 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 93 for, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 108]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the matter was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 78 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 51 votes, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 109]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the judiciary. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the fifth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse unsubstantiated statements whose content cannot be determined or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would any of your senators like to speak? Yes. I'm saying there's four people on the record. I, too, would like to make a statement. It's five o'clock. You're welcome. That's what we're adding to the senator. I ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Statement addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk on the conduct of High Speed Railways in the Łódź Voivodeship to the Central Communication Port. Dear Minister, CPK recently presented a new proposal for the conduct of the High Speed Railways to the Central Communication Port in the Łódź Voivodeship. In the new proposal, the course of this route is changed in relation to the originally planned course of the feasibility study of the Warsaw line. A boat. . Poznan Wroclaw adopted in 2013 An old version of the line run, so called The southern variant assumed that the route would run south of the Retkinia estate in Łódź, thus avoiding the city of Łódź Gold and Health and the city of Constantine Łódź. The new version published by CPK in February this year in the investment location study already predicts the route of the high-speed railway through Złotno and Health in Łódź and Constantine Łódź. We'd like to ask. I'm making a statement as joint, mine and Senator Dunin's. For analyses, studies and expert opinions, which lead to changes in the initial proposal for the conduct of the CDP. We also request that all documents be presented to us on this matter. The new option creates huge confusion over the original proposal. In practice, the city of Constantine Łódź is to be cut in half, which results in the need to displaced a group of residents. Similar perturbations the proposed change also causes in Łódź due to the course of the route through the building site of single-family houses in the area of Złotna and recreational areas in Health. After our conversations with the residents, we clearly expect a return to the concept of a route accepted by the inhabitants. In conclusion, we ask for a return to the initial proposal of the conduct of the KDP in the Łódź Voivodeship and detailed information on the reasons for the proposed changes in the course of the KDP. Signed: Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Artur Dunin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u309	Statement addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki and the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk on the High Speed Railway. The concept of the construction of the High Speed Railway line, called Y contract, which connects Warsaw, Łódź, Poznań and Wrocław within its territory, is one of the key stops in the Kalisz-Ostrów agglomeration. This was seen as obvious because of communication efficiency and was clearly highlighted in the feasibility studies. However, most importantly, in a broad perspective, this line was intended to be part of the trans-European corridor for East High Speed Railways. Okay, let's go, let's go, At the request of the Ministry of Infrastructure and PKP PLK, a preliminary feasibility study was prepared in 2005 and 2006 which proposed several options for the conduct of the line in question, including as the most economically and logistically justified option to include the Kalisco-Ostrow agglomeration. In the context of the public consultation, this line was considered to be optimal and included in the tender specifications for a full feasibility study as funded by EU funds. Several crowning arguments were in favour of this option. Firstly, a potentially large number of passengers, which may be generated by 400 thousand agglomerations, will be difficult to minimize for purely economic reasons. Secondly, due to the size and functionality of the railway node, which remains Ostrów Wielkopolski, it is possible to connect the High Speed Railway stop with numerous locations and traditional railway lines. Thirdly, this option is the shortest option to rationalise construction costs. In addition, it would mean the possibility of overcoming the section between Wrocław and Poznan in less than 60 minutes, which would indirectly also have an impact on the significant reduction of travel time crossing Poland from the north to the south via the Katowice corridor. . Opole. Wroclaw . Poznan Szczecin. All other options proposed at that time, without taking into account the Kalisko-Ostrów agglomeration, had clearly lower economic indicators, which decided to reject them. Surprisingly, in 2019 a new, completely incompatible proposal has emerged, which in fact undermines the carefully prepared plan and raises fundamental reservations. as to its validity. It was presented publicly during the Second Rail Development Congress in Warsaw on 29 January 2020. The alternative line to Wrocław contained in this new concept does not solve the issue of accessibility to key transport routes of the region from the border of Wielkopolska and Łódź voivodships. In addition, experts stress that the recently proposed solutions mean de facto exclusion from the merger plans from the trans-European transport network, for which the stop of the High Speed Railways in the Kalisko-Ostrowska agglomeration was supposed to be, as it had been assumed from the beginning, a nodal point. The solutions currently proposed do not guarantee the economic viability of connections and cause huge fragmentation of the very idea of High Speed Railways. They also do not fit into any broad transnational project that would bring Poland closer to European standards and put it into the trans-European connection system. Therefore, as a senator representing the southern region of Wielkopolska, I am calling for the restoration of the original plan of the High Speed Railway line, especially since the change of this solution has no social, logical and economic justification. In addition, EU and national funds have already been spent on project work in 2008 and 2015. As a result, there is a suspicion in the local community that political factors and particular interests played a central role in the decision to change location, from which such projects should be completely free. Given the social and economic importance of the issues addressed, I expect a rapid response before the final plans are approved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawicki. Dear Prime Minister, On September 4, 2019, during our stay in Elbląg, the leader of the ruling party in Poland, Jarosław Kaczyński, we learned that the project was created and that it will include Elbląg. Unfortunately, neither on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure nor on the website of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways have I found any mention of this programme. Elbląg also had no conversation with anyone about this. For my questions to the substantive ministries I received information that details will appear within 100 days of the appointment and oath of Mr.Matthew Morawiecki as Prime Minister of Poland. That version was confirmed by the Prime Minister personally. 100 days have passed, and indeed, the program of 100 bypasses has appeared. Unfortunately, there is no Elbląg in this program, and, frankly, to my knowledge, there never was, and that means that the Elblągans were lied to before the election, that they would get the ring road. If this is not the case, I would ask the Prime Minister to present the facts which will show that your government was planning to build a road bypass around Elbląg, which he had assumed for this investment and why he had abandoned the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. Your statement will be made by Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a statement to the Minister of Health, Professor Łukasz Szumowski. I was approached by patients treated with haemodialysis at the DaVita haemodialysis station in Krakow on 7 Kielecka Street, asking for an intervention on the omission of their centre when awarding contracts by the National Health Fund. I asked Director Elżbieta Fryzlewicz-Chrapisinska from the Kraków branch of the NFZ. She replied that patients would be able to use dialysis in other locations in Krakow, unfortunately located further away from their place of residence. I mention, Minister, that I have held meetings with the crew of a haemodialysis station whose employees believe that they have been wrongly omitted in awarding contracts. I've also spoken to patients for a long time, and more than once. They're bitter and very worried. They fear that they will not be able to travel to the designated facilities every day. Dear Minister, you are a doctor and certainly, as I am, you believe that the patient's well-being is our highest duty, which is why I ask the Minister to intervene in this painful matter. I will add that the station at Kielecka Street belongs to the best in Poland. This decision will also cost almost a quarter of a million zlotys. I'm joining my patient list statement. Signed: Jerzy Fedorowicz and Bogdan Klich, Senators from Krakow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u314	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement is made by Senator Alicia Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u315	Thank you very much. Statement to Marshal Tomasz Grodzki. Dear Marshal, I make a statement on behalf of 42 senators signed under it. On 14 February 2020, the Senate of the Republic of Poland organized a dance happening under the title "My name is Billion. As senators of the Parliamentary Club, we wish to express our firm opposition to the organisation of such events in the Senate. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is a place of law-making, which since its rebirth in 1989 has distinguished itself with serious and substantive work. It was the Senate that had been set up until recently as an example of a place where a responsible debate takes place in a spirit of mutual respect and discretion. This was also the case for events organised in the Senate outside plenary sessions. Conferences, seminars, exhibitions presented in our building have always met the importance of the place. In view of the practice and customs of the past, we were surprised to learn about the performance of dance happening in the Senate under the title "My name is Billion. The initiative taken by Members and activists from social organisations was to highlight the problem of sexual exploitation. As the participants declared, they danced to change the definition of rape. It is not our intention to investigate whether such a form of opposition to violence is effective or rather infantile to this important social problem. In us, in a special way, the opposition raises the place where happening was carried out. On the main wall of the lower hall of the Senate there is a plaque commemorating 151 senators of the Second Republic of Poland who died, were murdered during World War II and during post-war repression. The plaque was unveiled in 1999 and since then flowers and honors have been laid here for the fallen. It's a space of reflection and focus, not flashy spectacles. We express our firm opposition to such ones. In past cadences, the Speakers of the Senate of the Republic of Poland paid particular attention to the nature of the events organized in our building. We want to keep it that way. There are many public buildings in Warsaw, in which similar events, such as: My name is Billion, it can be carried out. The Senate of the Republic of Poland should not be used to carry out such projects due to the seriousness of the place. All the more reason it shouldn't be space in front of such an important memory board for all of us. We ask your marshal to maintain the importance of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and to draw attention to the fact that the events planned in the Senate are worthy of the place and role of the parliament of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. As your last statement, you will be making Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The statement will be addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and will concern the activities of the subcommittee Antoni Macierewicz to re-examine the catastrophe in Smolensk. I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister for intervention, for action, for such an elementary interest in the current work of the Smolensk Sub-Committee. During the session of the Senate committee, I was able to obtain information that nearly PLN 3 million would be allocated in 2020 to the activities of the Smolensk Sub-Committee. This is the first information in 2 years. Such information MON refused us both in 2018, and in 2019. There is a lack of information on the stage at which the test process is carried out. These samples from the plane were sent to foreign labs and the D.A.'s office, as long as one and a half years ago she answered that the research was ongoing, now the mystery of the investigation is hidden. Despite the fact that these results should have had a long time ago, the DA's office is refusing information on this subject. The second issue is the famous pre-election postulate of internationalisation of the investigation, reproduced by many politicians of the PiS. In this case, I directed numerous interventions to the Prime Minister, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the MON and to the subcommittee. It turns out that no committee in the allied state of Poland or any serious international organisation was requested to delegate an expert and to establish a joint intergovernmental, international, say, commission to investigate this catastrophe. Another issue is the famous complaint for the Russian investigation to the Court of The Hague. Ladies and gentlemen, in February 2017, Minister Waszczykowski informed that this complaint is ready and will be submitted to the Hague Court any day now. To this day, this complaint has not been filed. I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister for personal intervention in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and answer why, as a senator, I am constantly informed from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there are alleged analyses of whether or not this complaint can be filed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs answers that the Prime Minister is the decision-maker in this matter. When I write to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister answers me that the decision on this matter will be made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it is outside the competence of the Prime Minister. Finally, information on the activities of the subcommittee itself. Recent information on Anthony's Smolensk Sub-Committee's website Macierewicza was placed in September 2018. There is no information about the number of meetings, experts, whether the Minister of National Defence or the Prime Minister met with the subcommittee at all to obtain any information about its activities. The Smolensk tragedy cannot be used in a political game, explaining disaster cannot be part of such a game that is unfortunately being conducted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-27-senat-05-3.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. I state that I have been informed by the secretary that there are no messages at the end of the meeting. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 18]]
