ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u1	God bless you! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for a break to convene the Senior Convention to complete the agenda for the presentation of the President of the Republic, who is the initiator of this meeting. Apparently, the older and wiser advised him to initiate this populist event, PR-owski, but he is not anxious to speak. Let's make room for Mr. President. Let him explain why we're actually gathering here today. [[Applause]] Is it so that, by acclamation, a resolution condemning the virus firmly? Ha, ha, ha! Or maybe it's about the kitchen door being introduced by the Health Commission draft law martial law plus, of course, the coronavirus. The state of war - because it is a law which proposes among others. redefining the concept of emergency states. This is a law that proposes to exclude the responsibility of power for the loss, damage, harm that could, of course, result (the bell) from the fight against the virus... Thank you, sir. What is it? What are you really up to?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u2	I would like to inform you that this is not a formal proposal. There's been a senior convention meeting. You know exactly that the proposal does not meet these requirements. I will not put him to the vote. President, speak up. I ask the secretary to read the communication.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u3	Today will be the meeting of the Parliamentary Carpathian Group - at 3 p.m. 12.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u4	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Government information about the actions taken and the state's preparations related to epidemic threats in Poland and Europe. I am the first to ask the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, to speak. Please provide me with your information, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u5	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I've been a doctor for 23 years, and I've talked to patients about the diagnosis many times. Sometimes they were difficult, sometimes optimistic conversations, but they were all reliable and presented the whole truth to the patient. That's how I was raised as a doctor. Today I wanted to inform the President and the High House... Poles. ...as a Polish society, as we as a country are prepared for Cortipinus. Not at all. There are nurses, doctors, paramedics and other health professionals in this room from right to left. Especially to you, ladies and gentlemen, but also to all ladies and gentlemen of the House, I urge you to listen to this information carefully and without frequent emotions in this Chamber. Because what you give to people who trust you and believe you depends on whether we have a virus epidemic... Ha, ha, ha! ...or an epidemic of the virus and an epidemic of panic. You'll take care of the virus. Whether you provide reliable information depends on the safety and health of Poles. You're the one who's leaking the information. I believe that everyone in this room wants to ensure that it is safe. Run tests on people. I also trust that no one in this room will use the fear of the epidemic for direct party fights. [[Applause]] How? That's why in my speech... I hope so. ...I'll just pass on the dry facts. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Currently we do not have a positive test for the presence of the virus in Poland. 121 people are hospitalized, 237 are under house quarantine, over 3600 are subject to epidemiological surveillance. We have over 87,000 in the world. disease. The infection of the virus appears to be different in the whole society. Older people are mostly ill, and children are very rarely ill. About 80% patients were mildly exposed to this form of infection. Pneumonia and dyspnoea occurred in approximately 14% cases and 5% Severe respiratory failure has been reported. The risk of death associated with this virus infection was greatest in over 80 years of age and in people with multiple underlying conditions. It is a virus similar to other crown viruses. What does that mean? This means that on the surface it survives from a few minutes to nine days. Therefore, there is a small risk of spreading on products which are transferred for more than one week. Resistance has not yet been thoroughly tested. There was information that there was a second infection with a virus that had already been ill once. These data were not confirmed at the moment in the medical literature available. There are a number of international aspects of the spread of crown virus infection. Firstly, international institutions pay attention to compliance with international health rules, which say that States should adapt measures to the state of medical knowledge and should not be more burdensome than experts say, and that regulations should be implemented in compliance with international and local law. At the same time, reports from the United States say that very many social media accounts have been closed, mainly linked to the eastern region of our part of the world, which introduced misinformation and chaos in the United States regarding information about infection. This may endanger the security of countries that have undergone such misinformation. I would like to present to you at the moment the calendar of government activities, the agendas that are subordinate to the government or supervised by the government, in an international context, so I will talk about activities mainly of Polish agencies and governments, but also the ECDC, which is the European agency for the control of infectious diseases, and the WHO and the activities of governments of other countries, mainly focusing on Europe. On 9 January, the first information on the threat in China arrived. On that day, in accordance with the principles of its functioning, a team was formed in the Chief Sanitary Inspector to monitor the epidemiological situation. Since then it acts continuously. On 10 January, the ECDC issued a communication on low risk for travellers and low or very low risk of transmission of infection to European countries. On the same day, on January 10th, the Chief Sanitary Inspector issued a message for travelers travelling to Wuhan and information for airports and airport medical services regarding returnees from China. On 15 January, the National Central Point for International Health Regulations (KPC IHR) provided information on the lack of human-to-human transmission. On 20 January, the Chief Sanitary Inspector submitted a risk analysis report to the Ministry of Health. There was still no confirmation of any transmission from man to man. On the same day, on January 20th, a message for travellers appeared on the website of the Chief Sanitary Inspector. On 21 January, information was collected from the airport services and instructions were issued to airport staff and to auxiliary personnel regarding the risk of being dragged into Poland by Coronavirus. On 22 January, at Okęcie Airport a meeting of health inspection inspectors with health services, medical services and with LOT's representatives, who operate flights to China, took place on further action. On the same day, a meeting of the Committee on Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases and Protective Vaccines was held, on which a communication was drawn up for doctors and guidelines for qualifying cases of suspicion of coronavirus infection. On 23 January, only then did the ECDC inform about the possibility of transmission of human-to-human virus infection, and only on 23 January the ECDC messages for the population began to appear, i.e. guidelines that had previously appeared on the Main Sanitary Inspection website. On the same day, January 23rd, the WHO decides not to introduce a state of public health threat of international importance. The first EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides' first response is also taking place on 23 January. The following day, on 24 January, instructions were given to the Ministry of Infrastructure and as a third or fourth country we introduced a passenger location card in Polish, English and Chinese and leaflets in the same languages for people returning from East Asia and South East Asia. On the same day, the communication for travellers was modified on the basis of the ECDC and WHO communication and the rules for dealing with persons suspected of coronavirus infection were updated. On 25 January, a crisis staff meeting was held at the Chief Sanitary Inspector on, of course, co-ordination of information between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, sanitary inspection, airport, Civil Aviation Authority and all other institutions concerning the transport of people from China. Also on 25 January, coordination took place between consultants in the field of infectious diseases and the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate in the field of transport of three Chinese citizens to Poland. On 27 January, the routes for the transfer of samples to a laboratory in Charité, Berlin, were established from people suspected of being infected with a coronavirus. In Krotoshin... On 28 January, a working meeting took place at the Government Security Centre and a communication was sent by the National Health Fund on the rules of conduct to all healthcare providers through the electronic systems of SZOI and others. It was also introduced by the Ministry of Health to monitor and report the state of infectious beds. On January 28th, the same day we sent out a communication on the rules of conduct, Hong Kong and Mongolia are introducing a partial closure of the borders with China. The next day, on January 29th, a meeting of the crisis management team at the Ministry of Health took place, and there was another verification of the diagnostic capabilities of all health inspection laboratories and the activities of voivodship health and epidemiological inspections. All these institutions were submitted to the National Institute of Public Health material on how to download and transfer material from the patient to the PZH laboratory. On 30 January, a meeting of the Government Emergency Management Centre took place. The appeal of the President of the General Medical Chamber and the Chief Health Inspector to the medical community was published asking for reliable information and was sent to the sanitary and epidemiological stations and to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Civil Aviation Office to update the rules for dealing with persons suspected of coravirus infection on air travel. It was only on 30 January that the transmission from man to man was confirmed - this was the first case in the United States - and only 30 January the WHO decides to introduce a state of public health threat of international importance. On January 31st, there was an audiomiting 4. The European Union Health Safety Committee, which was also attended by the Ministry of Health. European security arrangements have been made. On the same day, January 31st, the patient's first sample was sent to PZH. The next day, on February 1, the Hubei Province was quarantined. On February 2nd, a day later, the evacuation of Poles from areas at risk from China was organized. Two planes with 30 Poles landed at the military airport in Wroclaw. On February 3rd, a working group on the epidemiological situation related to the coronavirus met at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister... What about Poland? ...and a meeting with the ambassador of the People's Republic of China to provide information on the epidemiological situation in China. At the same time, we reported to the ECDC on the number of quarantine sites, the number of isolation sites and the epidemic state in Poland. On 4 February, a meeting of the Senate Health Committee on Coronavirus was held and only on 4 February the FDA authorised and authorised the use of diagnostic tests for Coronavirus in the United States. Information on quarantine and epidemiological surveillance for Coronavirus was developed on 5 February. On 7 February, a meeting of the crisis management team discussed the evacuation of five people from China, and on 8 February another five people were admitted from China at the airport in Warsaw. It was only on 10 February that the ECDC recommendations on general measures to prevent the spread of the virus were published. On 13 February, the Deputy Minister of Health took part in a meeting of health ministers in Brussels in view of the situation regarding the spread of Coronavirus. According to ECDC 13 February, the risk of virus infection for the population of the European Union is low. On 19 February, this information was communicated and on 21 February a meeting of the General Command of the Armed Forces was held on the coordination of military activities in the field of transport of Poles from regions at risk. Now there is a stage in which the virus reaches Europe. On February 22, Italy announced clusters of confirmed cases in Lombardy, Piemonte, Veneto. That means there's been an outbreak. On 23 February, the Italian Council of Ministers approved a Decree-Law introducing measures to halt and manage the situation. The next day, a working group on the epidemiological situation was held at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and a meeting of the crisis management team at the Ministry of Health with the participation of PLL LOT, the Civil Aviation Authority on activities also involving Poles returning from Italy. On 25 February, a letter was sent to the medical entities on the possibility of applying for masks and suits from the Strategic Reserve Agency. At the same time, instructions and guidelines were prepared for the conduct of the National Health Fund and the voivodship departments. At the same time, I sent a letter to the Presidency of the European Union to the Croatian Presidency on an urgent meeting of health ministers to discuss the epidemic situation in Europe. On the same day, on February 25th, we launched a 24-hour hotline of the National Health Fund for providing information to Poles and a system for sending SMS to all people returning to the country logining in the Polish network was launched. Which one? February 25th. At the same time, a national action plan was approved in the event of cases of suspicion or infection of SARS-CoV-2 in Poland. On February 26th, the following day, ECDC was published, recommendations were made to treat a patient infected with a coronavirus for medicinal subjects. February 26th, which is the day after. On 27 February in the regulation of the Minister of Health, the new coronavirus was incorporated into the Act on infectious diseases, and at the same time the algorithms of the procedure were transferred - through the channels of the NFZ and the channels of health inspection and cooperating organizations, such as the Zielona Góra Agreement - to all POZ, AOS, i.e. outpatient specialized care, night and Christmas medical care and to medical rescue. On the same day, on 27 February, a meeting was held between Minister Piontkowski and the curators and guidelines for health inspection were given to schools and parents. On the same day, on February 27th, a decision was made by the voivode to hold the Intel Extreme Masters in Katowice without the participation of the audience. This is important in that Switzerland introduced restrictions on mass gatherings on the twenty-eighth day. On the 28th, a meeting was held between the Prime Minister and the voivods. The Prime Minister's decision recommended that the voivods introduce a state of increased preparedness of health care units in accordance with Article. 30 of the Act on State Medical Rescue, were obliged to organise 24/7 health inspection laboratories, to carry out ongoing analysis by the sanitary inspection and the chief health inspector of the risks associated with the organisation of mass events in all voivodships and to issue recommendations to the GIS on mass events. At the same time, it was decided by the Prime Minister to mobilise a budget reserve of PLN 100 million for the nearest actions related to the preparation of the country for the outbreak of the crown virus. There's been an additional six lab launch and delivery of virus tests to all these labs. Before that, we had two labs active. Further recommendations have been sent by the NFZ and these recommendations have been updated to all medicinal products. My letter was sent to the Secretariat of the Polish Episcopate asking for reading it in all churches. The twenty-nineth were delivered to all laboratories for further tests, and from the Material Reserve Agency after the examination of the applications were dissolved by the Ministry of National Defence funds to nine airports and 30 hospitals, where infectious branches are located. Following various reports on 1 March, a team was set up at the National Health Fund to monitor the proper handling of cases of suspicion or infection by medical agents. At the same time, the National Health Fund printed and distributed 100,000. information posters for healthcare providers and pharmacies. On 2 March, further parts of the tests were delivered and 11 laboratories were launched 24 hours a day. Therefore, to sum up briefly this calendar... You overslept. ...now we have 79 branches in which there are over 2900 infectious beds. Each such hospital in accordance with the voivodeship has plans to increase the number of these beds more than twice. In the Ministry of National Defence and subordinate hospitals there are another nearly 80 hospital beds and there is also the possibility to increase this condition more than twice. All hospitals have been given guidelines on how to proceed. There is ongoing monitoring of the voivodships concerning this condition. The Material Reserve Agency has been launched. Personal protective equipment was distributed to hospitals that reported shortages. And the POZ? Laboratories can now perform - and have a maximum capacity - over 1200 tests a day. We have a total of over 8770 intensive beds. As regards sanitary transport in inter-ministerial arrangements, support for sanitary transport has been agreed as necessary and the LPR remains on standby. Voivodeship confirmed the preparation of infectious hospitals in case of outbreaks of infection in Poland. All voivodships and all hospitals - thank you very much for very good cooperation - already have plans to increase the bed base and confirmed the possibility of separating separate reception rooms for infected and uninfected persons. I'm not going to talk about this anymore because I'm taking up a lot of time, but the number of documents that have been issued by the Chief Sanitary Inspector and the Ministry of Health is over 20. At the same time, information activities included very broad information of the Polish society. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the virus will soon appear in Poland, because all WHO countries and experts say that there is no possibility to limit the spread of this type of virus with such infection. We need to be prepared as much as we can. Our actions, as you have heard, lead to the communication of how to proceed, to provide the missing resources and to provide information to the Poles. Exactly. In an epidemic situation where fear of a new one is necessarily taking place, it is extremely important to follow instructions. Besides, it is the first epidemic in Poland since such wide access to social media. This is also extremely important because through these media we can distribute reliable and true information and information that is not checked. As I have informed you at many press conferences and publications, we are currently monitoring the situation of results from all laboratories in Poland. As soon as there is a positive outcome, whatever patient it is, the public will be informed immediately and, of course, so will you. The fact that he's gonna show up is certain. Depends on how we react and how we inform patients about what to do. How prepared we are. Infective hospitals are on standby, hospitals can expand their bed base if necessary. At the moment not all beds in infectious hospitals are occupied, not all beds in intensive wards are occupied. Then we're unprepared. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no direct treatment for this virus, no vaccine for this virus. There is symptomatic treatment for patients who require this treatment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u6	Thank you, Minister. I would now like to present the information to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u7	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's meeting of the High House is, as I understand it, to develop the best strategy - a strategy for responding to the epidemic that today has shaken China, shaken Europe, and we are also preparing in the best possible way for it to come. Since when? We are convinced that any effective and smart strategy must be preceded by a dialogue, it must be preceded by the best practices that are implemented in the system. We - as Minister Szumowski presented - from the very beginning and even ahead of most of the countries of the European Union... Ha, ha, ha! ...we have implemented solutions that are being implemented by others today. Don't lie to me. Unbelievable. This debate is also the best proof of how serious we are about this problem, and I would like to thank the President very much for calling the meeting of the High House, because this will be for us... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The president's calling? ...for asking your marshal to convene a meeting of the High House... [[Applause]] Setup. ...because it will be a good opportunity for us to discuss the current state of affairs. Could you not use the epidemic in the presidential campaign? Don't be nervous. Today the whole world is dealing with the coronavirus and we are also paying great attention to it. Therefore, protecting the health of Poles, we decided to initiate a series of actions within the European Union. This may surprise you, but it was Minister Szumowski who first requested that the Council of the European Union be convened, as I confirmed last week during my discussions with the highest management of the European Union, among others. with President Charles Michel and Prime Minister of the Presidency of the European Union, Mr Andrei Plenkovic. Also last week, I spoke with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and I proposed that we meet this week within the Visegrad Group to discuss the issue of Coronavirus. This morning I contacted Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and it turns out that in the Czech Republic there are the first three recorded cases of coritos, so it is actually highly likely, almost certain, that such a case will come to us. That's what we know. Today, there are only seven countries in Europe where such a case has not yet occurred, so our approach to this - solidarity, peace, tone, cross-party and dialogue - is extremely important to prepare society in an appropriate way for the emergence of this epidemic. [[Applause]] It was also on our initiative that the EUR 250 million of funding in the European Union budget was shifted to combat the consequences, to combat the causes of Coronavirus, the spreading epidemic. In particular, the countries of the south of Europe also want northern Europe, where these cases are still much less, to cooperate with them as harmoniously as possible, because the south of Europe is very afraid of the further spread of the virus across Europe. That is why, together with Europe's partners, we must do everything we can to calm our fears, to control the situation, to help our southern neighbours in particular, and to take place across borders, beyond party divisions, so simply in dialogue and beyond current differences of opinion. [[Applause]] I would also like to call with all my power for us to remain mindful and serious in this situation and not use it for party games... Start with each other. ...they did not use it in such a way as to cause disturbing signals throughout society. Experts say that today we are dealing with a few outbreaks of the outbreak of Coronavirus all over the world, and that is why we have taken specific action in relation to countries that are already such an epicenter of the epidemic, mainly China, but also South Korea or Italy. We apply special information rules for all travellers returning from these countries or for those who choose them. And I also ask very strongly that you follow these rules to inform all returning travellers, please fill in all questionnaires, because they are extremely important for the Main Sanitary Inspection when it comes to recording all possible movements of potential patients - patients, citizens, Poles who may be carriers of this type of virus. Since the beginning of the epidemic, since 9 January, the Polish state has been monitoring the situation, I stress, and this has been seen on the calendar presented by the Minister as one of the first countries in Europe. On 21 January, the General Sanitary Inspector published relevant communications for travellers. We were among the first to force Poles in China to evacuate the most vulnerable areas. The crisis management staff shall meet on a daily basis. Detailed information shall be provided by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration or by his representatives. All citizens can obtain the most up-to-date, properly prepared information for citizens on the gov.pl/coronavirus pages. We are all here, ladies and gentlemen, at the front of the fight, but let it be the front of the fight against the coronavirus, not the front of the political fight. In this fight, we all have to be on one side. I'm appealing, I'm asking for it. I would ask everyone to cooperate on this. Give the doctors protective measures. In order to stop Coronavirus, we need not only cooperation between the resorts, we also need cooperation between the central government and the local governments, but also between the government and the opposition. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that when the Russian threat broke out in 2014, in spring 2014, the then opposition leader Mr Jarosław Kaczyński called for cooperation with the government to stabilise the situation, calm the situation, in the responsibility for the state and in the sense of the state's right. [[Applause]] Today we know that airports are such windows to the world. We put in place very detailed procedures at airports, including procedures that are completely unnecessarily ridiculed sometimes. In fact, we are not able to block borders, close borders before the coronavirus, but we are able to minimize its access to Poland. That's why there's temperature measurement, which is why this quarantine, which is why a few hundred people are already being examined today by genetic testing, as the Minister said, in order to rule out and immediately locate a potentially emerging source of this kind of threat. The Material Reserve Agency has made additional purchases, additional orders of masks, masks and all such equipment needed for hospitals to prepare for this epidemic in the most appropriate way. How much? This call for responsibility and avoidance of panic is very important, because in the event of an outbreak of anxiety, panic, those who may need medical help most may find it difficult to access it, because many people who do not need such help will actually benefit from medical services. All medical personnel know this very well, but I appeal to the High House and through the High House - directly to all countrymen to avoid such panic. I would therefore particularly like to stress the need to maintain full professionalism and peace of mind. There's been a lot of untrue, untested information on the Internet. This is an important risk factor that we should not ignore, we do not want to ignore. Therefore, with these fake news with all the power struggles the chief sanitary inspector and we also present true, reliable, reliable information as a response to all these fake news. Besides, the United States authorities, I can quote them, cited examples of various Facebook accounts on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook, of Russian origin, as it was said. Different trolls, different pseudointernauts just sow anxiety, just trying to destroy a professional approach to address this problem. High Izbo! The legitimate anxiety of Poles is easily enhanced. It's easy to make quick comments. It is easy to increase through irresponsible entries on the Internet. Let's avoid it. I ask you to calm down and take a professional approach. [[Applause]] You're talking about a girl from Krotoszyn who hasn't been examined. For 80 hours? Various tweets or conspiracy theories are very dangerous, because they are not the answer to the epidemiological threat, but, on the contrary, they increase social anxiety. Cooperation and peace are needed in this regard. That's what I'm asking. There's no reason to insinuate that the virus came into the country when we're talking about it from the very beginning, that immediately, when the virus comes, we'll let it know. I would not want Poland today to be the most at risk of an epidemic of irresponsibleness, because such an epidemic of irresponsibleness can actually lead to a wider spread of the virus than otherwise would have happened. Such online speculation or playing the health of Poles as a political card is dangerous. There's no vaccine for that, ladies and gentlemen. That's not what I'm authorized to do. Therefore, I have nothing but to appeal to all politicians, especially opposition politicians, who sometimes participate in this game, sometimes are probably provoked by various Internet users, for seriousness. Prevention is crucial. Yeah, also this prevention that sounds so simple, banal: hand washing, disinfection, just hygiene. All the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and the Specialised Agencies indicate this, and I ask you to do so, too. I therefore ask that all of you, as far as possible, combat false information, use the site and advice of the Chief Health Officer, who, in this situation, is so dangerous to public health, along with all of his services, is available 24 hours a day. Therefore, before the outbreak of the Coronavirus epidemic occurs, we must effectively fight the epidemic of disinformation. The head of the World Health Organization warns against it. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no fake news vaccine, but there's a test we can all give up. It is a liability test, a consent test, a joint test, consistent with the fight against disinformation, fake news, Internet trolls that only cause unnecessary social anxiety. Look who's talking. Yeah, 'cause the Prime Minister's got a lie, right? Coronavirus hasn't had a vaccine yet. I hope it will be invented, but we must and we want to work with all political forces to minimise this threat to fight for public health together. Known doctors, the Latin maxim says: Cave, quid dicas, which means: Watch what you say. And you're the one who gets convicted of lying. Let us all take this recommendation to heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u8	Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister. The Sejm has agreed that the discussion on this item will be held on the 15-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a 7-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first speaker, please take the floor of Mr Thomas Latos, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u9	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President! It was an important initiative and thank you for this initiative to the President, just as I thank your marshal for calling this meeting of the Sejm. I think it is worth discussing what is really happening in this House. It was worth listening to the Prime Minister's position. Thank you for providing this reliable information, as thank you for the hard work that has been going on for two months. Thank you for these actions which you have taken, despite what should be emphasised once again, that Coronavirus is not yet in Poland, although, as the Minister rightly pointed out, it is probably only a matter of time. You are preparing for different solutions. There are day-to-day meetings of the crisis staff, there are different activities. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that this is about the daily work of health inspection, 16 thousand. staff, which we often do not notice, many laboratories that we have heard are active and active 24 hours a day, but also about the hard work of many other medical services: doctors, nurses, other staff who have been instructed and are ready, prepared for possible measures related to the outbreak in Poland. In all of this, of course. peace is needed, responsibility is needed, professionalism, seriousness and hard work are needed. I just said about hard work, which is done by various state services actually every day, almost 24 hours a day. But also, ladies and gentlemen, apart from this work, apart from the professionalism of the various services and the preparation of these services, it is extremely important to bear the responsibility which we all share. It's really important. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can address the representatives of different clubs here. It's really very important that we don't repeat untested information, tweet it, not speak false, even acting in good faith, but provide some unverified, phewish information. Have you seen the lady from Krotoszyn? Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should all - and I hope so - pass the responsibilities test. We in the Health Committee dealt with the problem of this epidemic or the threat of this epidemic three weeks ago. At the time we discussed, I would stress, in agreement, over divisions, regardless of the club, in full agreement on what could be done, what should be done, and we listened to information from both the Minister of Health and the Chief Health Inspector. In this sense of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue. And today, when we consider three documents: two parliamentary and one government, I hope that in such an atmosphere this discussion will continue after the break. I thank the opposition side for preparing two short projects. I take this personally as a concern for the state, the point is that you wanted to be involved in these measures related to the epidemic threat. Two weeks ago. But first of all, I thank the government for preparing a large document, a large bill that regulates not only the issues related to the inclusion of Coronavirus itself, [[Applause]] but also with other threats to the individual services... Marshal, this is not about this situation. ...the use of these individual services, the mobilisation of financial resources, the various threats that affect, for example, places such as airports. Ladies and gentlemen! Here, too, we need to thank services such as the military. When it comes to evacuation of Poles from China, among others. Thanks to the military, we managed to do this very well. This really is an example of a good interaction between different ministries within one government, the Government of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, there are also meetings and meetings with the curators, then also with the voivodships. Really, at voivodship level, at local level, we know what to do. The Voivodeships have been given proper dispositions, they know how to proceed, and both the Prime Minister and the Minister have said so. There's elevated readiness. Additional funds have been mobilised and made available, currently PLN 100 million, but another 100 million have also been prepared. Let us also remember that further tests have been purchased for the possible detection of Coronavirus if such a test should be applied. These activities of voivodships are also coordinated with voivodship health inspectors. So the state services are prepared. Ladies and gentlemen! Although there is no Coronavirus in Poland, we are prepared. Please also appreciate this in the context of past epidemics. Avian influenza has been mentioned here, for example. There were different situations when we were catching up when we were unprepared, but then, of course, we made up for the lost time. This time before the outbreak, the state services are prepared. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be stressed that there is cooperation with different environments on this issue, cooperation between divisions, sometimes despite difficult discussions. There is also such consent within the medical community. I value and I am grateful for the work and cooperation of, for example, the Zielona Góra Agreement. Family doctors, often on the first line, where they are first in contact with patients, support and support government action. It's really important. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, something positive, which also occurred when all this information was transmitted. It's about information about some basic hygiene. It's extremely important. And let us all remember that, to a large extent, our attitude will depend on whether or not it will become infected. It's a matter of hygiene, it's a matter of action, not just washing your hands. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember that there are no fatal cases in the world among young children, up to the age of nine, while the most vulnerable are those with reduced immunity, the elderly who have reduced immunity. But you're gonna tell me what the government did. Madame, you really need to be serious. Mrs... I'm surprised to see you screaming all the time. Mr. President, I'm sorry. Madame, you are constantly interrupting. He screams all the time. Is that what you're talking about? Is that what you're talking about? You're gonna have your club appearance, you're gonna say whatever you want. The Member does not speak on the subject. Perhaps this is the opposition's answer, I'm sorry, part of the opposition, part of the club. What are you saying? You don't want to listen, you can leave the room, but don't disturb me. That's not why I came here. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, because another colleague will speak on behalf of the club: let us remember all these facts. Let us remember and take care of our own safety, especially those who have reduced immunity. I am, ladies and gentlemen, convinced that you will pass the test. I hope we all pass the exam. You, too, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u10	Thank you. Once again, I appeal to you, Madam Member. These are club speeches, he's gonna have his time... But you gotta get to the point. Member, please don't argue with me. There's gonna be your club appearances, and you're gonna say what you've prepared. Don't bother, because it's really notorious. Ladies are always in the way. That's what the platform is for, to get out here and take the floor. Yeah, 'cause you have to say ad rem. Even now, you're trying to argue with me. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc. Please complete the speech of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u11	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Referring to such detailed and professional, calm speeches by the Prime Minister, the Minister and the President... Vaseline. ... I can, of course, appeal for us to reset all political emotions, all political narratives that are not for the cause at the moment. I think that a few words should be very clearly defined today, namely peace, security, discretion, trust and humility. Ladies and gentlemen, a dangerous intruder, a coronavirus, is entering our home. It's dangerous, because it's a 2-3% mortality rate. But we know the more dangerous viruses that were a few years ago, spread throughout Europe and the world. Let me remind you that in the case of avian influenza virus H5N1, mortality was almost 50%. SARS virus, which caused acute respiratory failure - mortality was 10%. Not to mention the ebola hemorrhagic fever virus, where the mortality rate was 90%. So don't panic. Don't panic. What do we know about COVID-19 disease today? We know that 80% Its course is mild, practically asymptomatic. It is self-medicated, so no medication is used. Practically only antipyretics, possibly anti-inflammatory, sealing vascular endothelials, are used. In 10 and 15% This disease causes acute respiratory failure and requires intensive care. So far, older people die most often, with reduced immunity, accompanied by chronic diseases, e.g. cancer, complications of diabetes, chronic renal failure, and those who received medical attention too late. So, ladies and gentlemen, calmly, discreetly and maturely. Today, we should all unite with the President, and with the government, and work together to prevent and possibly fight the virus if the virus enters Poland. This is what the Polish right state requires, but also the fact that there is no greater value, timeless, than the health of Poles and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important in this respect that, even personally, I could add that today it would be possible not even to read party membership when calling on individual Members. Few of this, we could even switch places in the parliamentary benches, because we need to unite in the common goal of caring for a real sense of health safety of Poles and Poles. All those who today claim that the government has done little or far too little are in great error. After all, the Minister made it clear that the moment the virus was found out in the world, detailed, urgent measures were taken. Let me remind you that every hospital with an infectious unit is armed with equipment, is responsible, professional crew, are FP3 masks, with nanofilters, FP2 masks, special suits. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister will mobilise PLN 100 million from his reserve, and 30,000 have been purchased. diagnostic tests for Coronavirus, all voivodship crisis management plans are updated. The National Health Fund has launched a 24-hour hotline 800 195 190. Everyone who comes from abroad, not only from Italy and China, receives text messages. The specific, up-to-date information of the Minister of Health, your chief health inspector, epidemiologists are constantly being transmitted. Appropriate passenger traffic activities have been undertaken at airports. Ladies and gentlemen, these are concrete, calm but very decisive actions. The issue of trust is an important issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a doctor for 40 years, and I know how important it is to trust both the doctor and the patient and the citizens in the government. The government takes all the action and all the work to ensure a real sense of security when it comes to the health of citizens, Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's be together and work together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u12	Thank you, sir. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u13	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's true, you have to act calmly, prudently, substantively, but you have to tell the truth. For a very long time, the Prime Minister spoke about unverified information on the Internet. Why the government, using its capabilities, did not go out and say: no, it is not true, we are in such a situation, and this and this has been prepared. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Poles want to feel safe and want to know that the government is well prepared. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There it is. He's prepared. The government should be prepared for emergencies and epidemics. In this case, this dangerous virus is coming to us, but I understand that there have been mechanisms and systems in our country about how to act in such situations. I understand that the Minister and the government are preparing for this, but the information that reaches the patients is really low. It can't be that a patient who goes to a doctor at this lowest level gets to a doctor who doesn't have any equipment, isn't protected from all this, no masks, no gloves. [[Applause]] You're saying there's no virus in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We know how difficult it is for a patient to have access to a doctor. People need to know exactly what the road is. It's said at airports, everything's working great. How can one explain the case on Saturday when a patient who flew in from Korea and said at the airport that she had a high temperature and is not feeling well was put on a plane and was taken by ambulance only in Krakow? Something's not working, Prime Minister, we need to check it out. [[Applause]] You're saying here we have to work together. Of course all rational people work together in such a case, performing tasks that should be entrusted, but you have to tell people the truth and show them what to do in such a situation rather than in another situation. The most important thing is the truth and not calling for exceptional situations. When we talked about this disease last week and that the opposition had made draft laws, your marshal said that it wasn't necessary at all, the government had some options to act on it. [[Applause]] The President has proposed to convene the Sejm to listen to the Prime Minister's information so that we may know this information, but in the morning the President met with the Prime Minister, so he already had this information. Either we take each other seriously, we take each other with confidence, and we want to respect each other, or we do political performances. [[Applause]] Let me put it this way: when I leave this room today, I won't know what I'm going to tell patients how to behave in a situation where they feel they may have had contact with infected people because they've come back from abroad and they don't know if the elevated temperature is a symptom of this disease or if it's just a common cold. There's a system, there's a service working, but I'd like to know the plan for ordinary citizens, how they're supposed to behave. [[Applause]] If we are talking so much about the money that is needed, I would like to remind you, I will take advantage of the President's presence, that there are 2 billion PLN in your hands, which can be used for oncology. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u14	Thank you. Your colleagues have called for no trips outside of the subject of Coronavirus, and yet they are. Mr Boris Budka will finish his statement on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u15	Thank you. Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! We really want to talk, we want to help. I have one very simple appeal: it is time to finally reject this shoe and contempt, which you have for more than 4 years against all who have a different opinion or are from another part of the political scene. On 14 February, we tabled a bill that gave the possibility to arrange isolation, quarantine in situations where it would be necessary. And what did you do? Of course, with that contempt, with that shoe, you said you didn't need anything like that because the state was doing great. Indeed, the state was doing great when the Minister of Health and the President were skiing while the most important things had to be taken care of. [[Applause]] The state works great when the Minister talks about the situations, about the information you have on 20 February regarding Coronavirus in Italy. Minister, the first information from Italy provided by Polish portals comes from January 31st. In Rome, in the case of a Chinese marriage, there was a case of coronavirus, and you say it was only February 22nd. If you can't even collect simple information, then we can all be afraid of what's ahead of us if this virus comes along. [[Applause]] Today we are here to adopt concrete solutions. Today we are here because, for the last time, instead of dealing with important issues for Poles, you have dealt with internal fights, gang fights within your coalition, fights within the special forces. You didn't deal with real, real problems. [[Applause]] Today we are here because you cannot use those procedures that have been in force in Poland for years. After all, clear and clear rules have been in force since 2007, and they have been prepared by your government, which we then took over and introduced. You can't use these procedures. When we asked and appealed last week: let us hold a special meeting of the Sejm, let us adopt legal solutions, after all, from the lips of the marshals, from the mouth of your ministers it was formulated that nothing was happening that we did not need any new solutions. So? Unfortunately, even Coronavirus is included in the election campaign. This is very, very irresponsible and wrong. [[Applause]] I have an appeal from this place to the President. Mr. President, you have a huge tool in your hands. This is the verification organ of what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was talking about, and an expert on fake news. As we know, twice, the court has forced the Prime Minister to appeal against the untruth in your words. [[Applause]] And today the Prime Minister is talking about checking to fight fake news. Mr. President, this is a test for you. In your hands there is a solution where 2 billion Polish taxpayers can go to the improvement of health protection of Poles and Poles, they can go to health care, among others. to increase the number of employees of specialists, to increase expenditure in health care, to increase infectious branches, to improve the safety of Poles and Poles, rather than to produce fake news in so-called. public media. This is the test, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Bravo! Today, this debate is really about how we can solve together the problems that stand before our common homeland, but in order to do so, we need not only to say the round words that fall from the Prime Minister's mouth, but we need concrete actions. And today we're very clear: yes, we're here to work out the right solutions, but we're also here to tell you why you haven't worked so far, why you've chosen skis instead of emergency staffs, [[Applause]] Why haven't you committed more money so far, more financial support for health care, but year by year, you're increasing your expenditure on propaganda. Prime Minister! Mr. President! It's time for your promises to be fulfilled. It is time for Poles to see if you and the opposition want to solve the most important problems concerning what is ahead or just pretending. I have a great appeal not to take advantage of matters that should be above any division so as not to include them in the electoral calendar. It's already been done. Last week, you were defending yourselves against the Senate debate and the government's information about the Koravirus situation. You said no, this debate is unnecessary in the Senate. What's all this for? And then... What's changed since then? President. Is it because you wanted to write it down... Very good. President. I mean, it's great that you're saying it, but it's bad that it's happening. You were gonna put this in the election campaign? Mr. President, you have much better tools. $2 billion in your hands. [[Applause]] PLN 2 billion for Polish health care rather than for fake news production, instead of for the contempt industry. Instead of sharing Poles, you can do something very, very good. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister, you've been focusing on the Internet. Strangely enough... I know that maybe there are such experts in your ranks, I don't doubt those who know how to manipulate the Internet, but Prime Minister, they're not Easterners, they're not trolls, they're Polish women, they're patients of one of the hospitals who exposed the truth about your inability. [[Applause]] It was Mrs. Ania from Krotoszyn who showed you how you didn't work. And today he admitted It's even the Minister of Health himself, saying... It was the hospital that blew it. ...that unfortunately there's chaos, unfortunately it didn't work. I mean, there's one simple word missing. "I'm sorry" wasn't enough. There's no word for it, which is very important at times like this. From this point on, I want to declare that we are ready for any substantive work. We are ready to be in this House at any time in matters of national importance. [[Applause]] Only for now you have organized your work in this House in such a way that we have one sitting per month. You're the ones who organized the work so the Seym wouldn't get together. And now, of course, you're pretending to want to fix something. But where have you been all this time? Where was the Minister of Health? We know. You've even been skiing in Italy. I don't know. I hope that if that's not true, I will, Minister, apologize for it because I don't want to believe it. Twice in Poland, I understand. But you still went to Italy? I mean, for God's sake, there are limits to hypocrisy and there are limits to how the state should act. And today it's a real test, but it's a test that has to pass a parliamentary majority. We as the opposition are ready, once again emphasize, to the substantive work. But how does this work on your side look? Last week, we hear an unnecessary bill. Yeah, you can see that. Last night's government project is under way. You're raping the Health Committee. In this project there are at least certain solutions, and in some cases very controversial ones. This is a bill that should be processed in normal mode. I have great concern that once again you are using the situation to introduce procedures that have absolutely nothing to do with the normal principles of a well-functioning, safe and efficient state. And now it is also a test, Prime Minister, for you, for the majority, today during the deliberations of this committee, because we, as a responsible, substantive opposition, will make concrete amendments to your bill, so that it will come out of this House in such a way that it does not raise any doubts. And today it's an elementary test. Not just for state efficiency, because this test has already failed, but it's a test. for elementary decency, decency, or do you want, together, on key issues, there to be political divisions, whether you want to divide Poles again, or do you want to share the House again. We speak clearly: we want to work. But today, the ball is on your side. Today, the test for decency must be passed by the President of the Republic of Poland, in whose hands financial resources lie, which can be devoted to really the most important needs of Poles and Poles, among others. for protection and health care. And today, and here I agree, Prime Minister, there is also a test for whether you will choose the policy of fake news and manipulation and allocate PLN 2 billion to so-called. public television, whether we will jointly allocate PLN 2 billion to make the Polish health system work better, more effectively, in a professional way and so that we can all say: yes, we managed to work together what Poles and Poles expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u16	Thank you, sir. Come, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u17	Dear Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! Dear High Izbo! I would like to start by saying I would like to welcome the candidate of the Left for President Robert Biedron. [[Applause]] I'm glad that when we discuss such an important subject, our candidate is with us. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Member, let's get to the point. Member, don't forget. We've known about the coronavirus since December. It wasn't until last night that a government project appeared. We have a lot of questions about him because he doesn't solve a lot of questions. But I also have questions for today's speeches. Neither in the draft nor in today's statements do you see the problem at all 45% employees who go to work because they're afraid of losing it. I do not see an increase in the budget of the State Labour Inspection, whose inspectors could support workers and control whether labour law is being respected at such a crucial moment. The project also ignores people working under civil law agreements. They should be able to work remotely, but as usual... About that, please. About. ...for the Polish state they are invisible. Lack of funding for information actions for the State Labour Inspection. Polish people and Poles still don't know what their rights are. They do not know that when they are placed in forced quarantine, they have the right to sick leave, that when their child gets sick, they have the right to leave for that child. But the lack of knowledge It's just one aspect. There are no benefits for uninsured persons. Coronavirus will not choose those who pay contributions. I do not understand why the government applies a neoliberal distinction to insured and uninsured people in such a crucial case. We're all citizens of this country. And our government should do everything in its power to protect us from this threat. I do not see an increase in the budget for health inspection, which will play a key role in preventing the spread of the virus. There are measures for specific actions. There's no overtime money, no hard work. You're assuming again that people will work for pennies. And most importantly, I do not hear any information about whether the government will take care of the drug safety of Poland. Currently, a large proportion of the active substances from which drugs are made are produced in China. Is Poland at risk of no drugs? If so, which ones? What government plans to secure the sick and when? How does the government plan to address this problem in the future? Is 40 million secured enough for administration and drug production when there is no supply from China? The rest of my doubts will be told by my colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u18	Thank you, Member. There you go, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Left candidate for president! From the very beginning, the Left calls for calmness, common sense and non-use of this situation to the current political games, and more so in the course of the election campaign. On the other hand, with regard to the Socratic understanding of politics as a prudent implementation of the common good, we cannot, on the other hand, as a serious political force for which more than 2 million citizens and citizens have voted, remain indifferent to the way in which the current power is acting in the face of a serious threat. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, called a press conference on the threat of COVID-19 koravirus on Monday, 24 February, while the first three confirmed cases of COVID-19 coritos were announced in northern Italy on Friday, 21 February. The government needed more than 48 hours to convene a press conference, to say that there will be text messages sent to returnees from abroad about how to proceed in a situation of danger, that our services are fully prepared. But as long as the government needed a weekend to react, the virus certainly didn't have time off. It is very likely that he arrived in Poland with families returning from northern Italy, spending their holidays in the regions. The weekend of February 22 and 23 was the last of this year's winter holidays and - what is important - for children from four voivodships, including the largest: Mazowieckie or Lower Silesia. The median viral incubation according to Wuhan studies is between 3 and 24 days. Sars explorer is also of the same opinion. The Government page calls for a serious approach to the problem. However, how is it that the members of the Health Committee, and I am one of them, received a text message informing them of the urgent meeting of the Committee yesterday at 3 p.m. 22.09, and another informing that the printing is on the page of the Sejm - at 2 p.m. 23.23? The committee itself was convened at an hour. 8.45. We are not dealing with an unexpected flood, an earthquake or a tsunami in the Baltic that has occurred in the last 24 hours. The fact that the coronavirus will reach Poland, has been known for several days, not for several hours. The bill submitted consists of 23 pages and contains a number of references to other legal acts, and within a few nights there is no possibility to get an accurate view of the complexity of the bill submitted. The bill submitted had to be prepared for a few days, not since yesterday's Sunday afternoon. This morning, I asked the Health Committee a question, since the Ministry was working on this project, and I didn't get any answers to that question. Together with a group of Members of the Left on 25 January, I submitted an interpellation No. 1675 on the risk of the spread of the outbreak of coronavir in Poland. To this day, 37 days have passed, we have not received an answer. The Left strongly opposes the use of the old saying: break the thermometer, then you will have no fever. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u21	Good morning. Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! The left is far from fueling panic and warming emotions, and we want the government to act smoothly on this matter, ensuring the safety of health and life of Poles and Poles. We also want to be aware that the government has done everything to prevent what the Minister has just called an epidemic of fear and panic. We know what the government is proposing in the present law, but we also want to ask what has been done so far, and maybe we just want to ask why there have been some omissions. When the first case of Coronavirus happens and is confirmed, everything will change, because instead of waiting, we will start living during the epidemic. But the development of the situation really depends on the first cases, and we know this from the example of Italy, where doctors missed the isolation of the first patient, and unprotected people infected themselves and then infected other patients. We are as Leftes far from any conspiracy theories that the Prime Minister has spoken of, but it is worth looking at, for example, how and what they are imported and so far there have been samples for research into Coronavirus. Should they not be sent by special transport instead of a courier, as is the case today? Will these procedures change? Please inform us how many tests have been carried out so far. What's the waiting time for the score? The Minister of Health spoke of additional laboratories, and we know that in the course of the research there are now samples that are waiting for the result for the fifth day. How is that possible if we have 11 24-hour labs and 1,200 tests a day? We understand it's from now on. There appears also to be a need for public reporting by the Chief Health Officer on the number of studies carried out, the number of persons concerned and the results of these studies, as is done in most European countries. Access to this information is one of the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. As only and only access to information can guarantee peace in the face of an epidemic, it seems appropriate to launch a hotline. Not just one hotline, but a hotline in every voivodship, e.g. at emergency call centers where everyone concerned about their health would call. It should, of course, be a number no different than 112. That's where the health professionals work. They may respond, calm or decide to send an ambulance to the notifier. Why do I think that there should not be sanitary and epidemiological stations where most people work without medical education? Prime Minister, but also Minister, mentioned here a huge number of fake news, false information that is currently flooding the Internet. People need reliable information about proper conduct. We also get information about dishonest businessmen who impose ridiculously high prices of masks and other hygiene products. These companies are breaking contracts with hospitals to make astronomical profits. Profits cannot be more important than human health and safety. The Left Club expects decisive action to prevent speculation, and those who cynically exploit the situation should meet with a strong response from the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u22	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We agreed at the club that I would refer specifically to hospitals as a very important therapeutic entity when we are talking about combating Coronavirus. In my opinion, it's a good thing that the government is working, giving instructions, some guidelines, recommendations, but it's not really the government that should be prepared, it's the hospitals themselves. And now, in a situation where our health care is on the right track for good times and barely vibrant, when nothing happens, a small crisis, turbulence can completely upset our hospitals, it can cause a mess, because they are not only supposed to deal with the coronavirus, but also lead a normal, very burdensome activity. We know how neglected the medical unit is when it comes to infectious diseases. There are few hospitals, few branches. I will not refer to the numbers given by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. I'm gonna refer to something else. We've got no more than ten troops on a good level. The other branches we have in the system were treated as a financial ball to the leg. They're in bad shape, they're underinvested, they're not equipped, and the government is just now gathering detailed information and they're going to know about it. There's a shortage of specialists, there's a shortage of nurses. I remind you that the Left has always been against the privatisation of hospitals. However, many hospitals are privatized. And they work very well. Public hospitals usually don't have kitchens, they don't have laundry, because that was the result of economic calculations. This is really about scale. If the scale of coronavirus were large, then even that would become a problem. The only real opportunity for us is staff: checked doctors, nurses, paramedics. I'm also observing this from a doctor's position with 40 years of internship. That's their hope. On the other hand, I will refer very briefly to a terrible thing. I have a big grudge against the government about this Krotoszyn. Various irregularities have been revealed - by shortening - and what is the reaction of the Minister's spokesman? It's not the government's fault. It's the doctor, the hospital. Yeah, we've probably been listening to this, the doctor double-crossed and tripled to help not risk this patient's life. The finale was this - the Minister then probably knew what we all knew only online - that the doctor was guilty. If that's how doctors, nurses, paramedics and other staff are supposed to be treated, then it's really bad... I urge you not to do that. Still - I'm almost done - do we have regulations? Because we say coronavirus, coronavirus, what about the hospital? How's he supposed to work? What happens if the nearest hospital to the county hospital is a person in serious condition after an accident or massive gastrointestinal bleeding that can't be transported to a specialized facility? Will the hospital be closed then? I'm afraid there's a lot of things the Minister hasn't predicted, and there's gonna be constant trouble, but let's not panic. The staff will be fine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u24	Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u25	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Fighting the coronavirus isn't just a job for health care. It is also about preparing our administration. As the MSWiA representative said, conferences and conferences are held almost daily with the participation of the Prime Minister, Voivodeships and sanitary services. Would we know what their results are? Which voivodship is behind on this, and which is well prepared? What is the cooperation of voivodships with local governments? Some complain about the flow of information. It is said that the voivodships have updated their regional crisis management plans - plans that have been negatively assessed by the Supreme Audit Chamber. I have a report before me, Prime Minister, dated 12 September 2018. The subject of control was civil protection in the context of crisis management and civil protection. According to this report, there is no effective civil protection system in Poland. The duality of legal solutions is still maintained, i.e. crisis management structures are in place and civil defence formations are maintained independently. According to the report, the authorities responsible for the implementation of crisis management tasks have not created structures adequate to the risks involved, have not implemented effective procedures or have provided the necessary resources for appropriate crisis management. NIK said (The bell) then... Mr President, finish up. ...that the lack of preparation of appropriate plans and procedures can simply But it doesn't work... Thank you, sir. ...to function properly... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u26	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Żuk, excuse me, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, PSL - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u27	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank all nurses, doctors, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, laboratory diagnostics, employees of the State Sanitary Inspection for the great contribution they have made in recent weeks, days and hours on behalf of the club Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15. [[Applause]] working often without well-prepared information from the rulers. Secondly, I want to declare full cooperation with all political environments, with the government in the face of the threat of health security of Poles. We may differ, we may argue, but in the face of the threat of state security, in the face of the many questions and fears that are among our citizens... These fears concern parents' concerns about their children, concerns about grandparents, about all residents of Poland, about all members of the family. There are many topics that still lack answers and lack this information. So we're gonna work together on health security. We just have to stand there and tell them what the truth is. Do not be offended by the words of criticism from the opposition or by pointing out a mistake because they can protect us from disaster. I agree that - in addition to epidemics of all kinds of diseases, viruses, threats - disinformation and an epidemic of fear are very dangerous. But who's responsible for not making it happen? Those who are in opposition today, or those who have every means to rule, those who have a huge social mandate to run the state? What is Polish Television called for? To disinformation and throw fake news and lies or just broadcast Today's information programs? Change it, and it'll really be better. Now a few things about the virus itself. 85,000. people infected in the world, 2921 deaths. Only in Italy 1577 people infected and 34 people who died. Mortality is high. We often hear a comparison to flu. But the death rate for flu is about 0.1%. And here it's 2.5,3%. Incubation period: influenza - 2 and 3 days, coronavirus - 7 and 15 days. Complications: in the case of influenza - 1% For Coronavirus, 20%. So there's something new, something unknown, you have to intervene. How the Polish state was prepared in terms of information, we could see last week. The pharmacists weren't involved. There is no communication with local government in Poland. It is good that you invited the curators, but for the organization of education in the commune, in the county, local self-governments are responsible in the voivodship. They didn't get the information, they didn't cooperate with them, they didn't talk, they didn't give the flyers. They should have been in pharmacies for a long time. 2 million patients use pharmacies every day, comes in, buys drugs. That information wasn't there. It's a good thing we hear about the posters today. But aren't all these actions too late? I am not surprised that they are late, because when we heard about the onset of the disease in China, in the first reports, in the first days the Minister of Health with the Chief Health Inspector could not agree a sentence. Speaking in the morning, the Minister of Health said - in my opinion rightly - that the coronavirus will surely reach Poland. In one of the radio broadcasts in the evening, the chief health inspector said that in his opinion there is a high probability that this virus may not reach Poland. If the Chief Health Inspector and the Minister of Health do not have a common opinion in the first days of the virus, how should Polish citizens feel safe? How can you guarantee security if there was no coordination at first? Here's another thing. What about the infectious troops? Minister, Prime Minister, please inform me: How many infectious troops have been removed in recent years? Because we hear that today 79 branches are ready to work, which have about 2,000. Hospital beds, they could increase it. Good. How much was it when you took over? Wasn't there 119 infectious and observation-infectious units? How many infectors doctors, specialists in infectious diseases? Why their number only by the end of 2018. - because that's what you published - dropped by 200 people? In fact, there are other data from the General Medical Council, because it shows that there are about 1,000 infective doctors, in the health minister's newsletter there are about 500 active doctors. Even of it a thousand 30% He's retired. One infectious disease doctor accounts for 40,000. people in Poland. This shows the scale of negligence, underfunding of infectious diseases in recent years. Many of them have unfortunately been eliminated or had to suspend their activities because you are not addressing the challenges of health reform. The President didn't do it either. It is good that he is here today and is listening to this debate, but a few years ago, Paweł Kukiz, at a meeting on another matter, proposed a health reform to make it less bureaucratic for the President to lead. He didn't do it. He hasn't done it in five years. It is good that today he can listen to this debate. You introduced a temperature test at airports, but in the case of planes flying directly from northern Italy to Poland. What about those passengers who moved? You're talking about polls that are being filled on decks of planes. And who's answering these polls? Does anyone ever pick them up? Because the passengers come in and say, "We wanted to give up these polls, and no one wanted to take these polls from us. Where do these polls go? Who are they reporting to? These are questions, Minister. [[Game in the O.R.]] Really... you think that if someone tells you flaws, mistakes, it's an attack on you. It's not an attack. It's an indication of where the problem is today. You've heard from the Minister of Infrastructure. Then why didn't the truck drivers have any information when they got to northern Italy about how to behave? Why didn't the bus drivers have that kind of information? How do Poles move between Poland and Italy most often? Or air transport? No. They drive cars and coaches. This is how thousands of Poles ski. That's how they came to Poland. Who are they supposed to report to? If they go to the SOR in the hospital, often in the voivodship hospital, then the SOR - if there is already suspicion, then the information from Tarnów from the last hours - is disabled. The queues then to other specialists, in other cases, extend to several hours. How is the military medical service prepared for action? Is 1200 tests a day enough? Is it enough in March, which is a month, when the epidemic, not only of Coronavirus, but also of influenza, is increasing? Another issue - the impact of this epidemic on the economy. That's not what we were talking about today. I understand you didn't mention this to the Minister of Health, but you didn't tell the Prime Minister either. What will be the situation with the production of many components, many substances that are produced in China and Polish companies benefit from this? Is there any dialogue in this area in order to prepare the Polish economy? The question has already been asked, but I'll clarify it. Is there a risk of drugs being available? Not just antiviral medicines, but mostly drugs like euthyrox, fraxiparine, depapine? It is said that the availability of 386 medical preparations is at risk because of what is happening in China, to block production. We are a country, as many unfortunately countries in Europe, dependent on the production of medicines in China. This does not only apply to the pharmaceutical industry, but also to the chemical industry and other economic issues. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be united in the fight for the health of Poles not only when the virus comes, but also when there is a matter of health reform. She's necessary. Comprehensive changes in health care are needed. This can also be seen in the case of infectious diseases that I have tried to cite. Without this there will be no health safety of Poland and Poles. New bill at the end. It's a good thing she's not a system solution. She's a competence grant, very personal, to the voivods. Maybe that's what we need today. You will, I understand, explain. But so that there are no such sources of funding as you propose in some cases. 'Cause you're proposing to take 40 million out of the salvage and fire extinguisher expenses for the CSR. I think it's a weak source of funding. You've got others. After all, the budget is balanced. There should be a lot of other places better than taking the TSOs. Finally, Mr Hoc spoke about the fact that there are other viruses. Yeah, that's right. There are other health risks. There is, for example. 150,000. people who are infected with the HCV virus, who are not aware of it today living in Poland. But are you doing something about it? Is there a week, a month of screening that would be done from dawn to night? You're in charge today, that's your responsibility. You've got the biggest ticket, you've got the president from your camp, you've got the government, you've got the term of your own government again. Do your duty, and I'll thank you. I will be ready and ready, like the whole club and all our self-governments, to cooperate in the face of the threat of health and life of Poles, only this must be cooperation on partner terms. You must listen and hear our voice as well. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u28	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u29	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! It's a good thing we're talking about the risk of the coronavirus today, because you can't be too careful. In this part of the debate, much has been said about preparing health care to deal with this virus. I'd like to show you a specific example of our health care problems. Is health care, so organized - here I want to give you specific information - able to face this challenge? Namely, I mean the danger of patients in the District Hospital oncology department in Zgorzelec. We've built a beautiful 58 million-dollar facility with two modern radiotherapy cameras, and look at this: a year and a half no contract - there's no contract because someone doesn't like it online. I ask the simple question: how do we treat a patient? Is it as Minister Szumowski said in an interview with TVP Info that we have a government policy today so that in the case of oncology the medical service is as close as possible to the patient? The situation is completely opposite. What's that? In fact, patients in Zgorzelca must go to a resort in Jelenia Góra 100 km away. They are accommodated in a hostel in Bolkow, which is in turn 30 km from the resort, and taxis are taken for treatments to Jelenia Góra. Is it economical? Savings. After all, it is simply the generation of costs in a completely unjustified manner. Second thing. Only 150 of those 450 qualified for radiotherapy benefited. 300 people, what choice does he have? They have one choice: stay home, fight the disease in silence and wait for death. It simply cannot be - we are a civilized country in the middle of Europe, it is the 21st century. - to make today the state-of-the-art devices as possible, available, permanent. Beautiful building, devices, and wind hula indoors and cannot be provided today because Minister Szumowski and the voivodeship consultant have a different concept. Is your other concept a threat to 300 people faster than death? I don't think that's the point. This must be handled in my opinion very responsibly. I know there's still a friend at the club to speak. Oh, dear, there's not much left. I just want to appeal. Mr. President, the community site from the mine, from the power plant, wrote to your handwriting. You know that, Mr. Prime Minister, you know that. Show good will, reach out to people with cancer from the Zgorzelecki district, and give them the contract, because eventually these devices will be exported, and that's it, and that's not the point. Let's give people who have cancer a chance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u31	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The information presented by both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister was extremely scarce and its quality is directly proportional to the need to convene this meeting. I hope that the information policy of the Polish Television, government television on the matter of Coronavirus will be no less than the promotion of the movie Zenek. That's what I'm asking. [[Applause]] On the other hand, today I expected more talk about money, more talk about health care support, more talk about changes in infectious wards and their funding, because today we see the problem of these infectious wards that are taking in people who are already suspected of coritos. I would also like to make it clear today at this meeting that there is an explanation of the needs reported by hospitals to the voivodships, the needs reported by the medical emergency stations (the bell) but also the health care stations. Is it true that for each voivodeship there are requirements of at least tens of millions of zlotys for the simplest equipment that is needed and in medical emergency stations, and in infectious wards? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. President! Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to express my amazement that the session of the Sejm was convened at the request of the President and that the President did not decide to take the floor. If this session of the Sejm was justified from the perspective of the President's Chancellery and from the perspective of the head of state, we would like to know exactly what the objectives of the President had, inviting 460 Members here and considering that the government or the Committee on Health is working in insufficient ways and that these voices, which have been heard here from the Seym Speaker over the last 2 hours, bring something more to our public knowledge of the state's preparation. [[Applause]] Mr. President! Let me remind you that I called last week for the Cabinet Council, at which the President, with the help of his advisers, without the participation of the cameras, without all the views of the Members of the opposition, could ask questions to the members of the government about the state of preparation for this particular epidemic and expect honest answers. These honest answers cannot be answered here for obvious reasons, because the government sitting here 8 metres from me, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, is under constant hail of the vicious comments of the opposition, the opposition, which is subject to conspiracy theories, as we saw last week, among others. in the speeches of the candidate for President Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, who, instead of calming the moods that fit the candidates for office of state, repeated rumors, repeated conjectures, [[Applause]] She repeated conspiracy theories circulating in Warsaw that the government was hiding something from us. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Members of the opposition have information that the government is hiding something, let them reveal the facts. Don't insult me. If you do not have any knowledge of any facts, then do not waver in social sentiments, [[Applause]] only try to do what the Confederation does. At least try this one extraordinary session of the Sejm to be a substantive opposition. This is not a debate. Try it. The people will really appreciate it. I assure you. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! Minister! I asked four questions last week in my interpellation. I would like to ask you to make a certain exception to this statutory procedure that Members are waiting about a month for answers. I would like to ask for answers on the state of preparation of our country, the supply of relevant materials and written instructions, which should already be in all health care facilities. I would like to ask for these answers today. I would also be very grateful to the President for revealing his doubts, if that is the case, about the state of preparation of our country and the concern of the citizens, which everyone here in this House, I believe, should be expressed together in such a dangerous situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr President, every Member, every politician has the right to ask the government the question of when conflicting information is being circulated online. It is the government that should give us the answers to these questions so that we do not have to doubt whether it's true or not. This is the government's job. [[Applause]] Bravo! Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! A few days ago, my 9-year-old daughter Hope comes home from school with bake-ups on her face and says, "Daddy, are you sure I'm not gonna die of coritos?" I understand that journalistic hyenas are spreading panic because that's why they have a poem, and I understand that they keep their TV stations watching. But what right do you Members have to spread panic among people? Here the opposition says she's the one who protected people from the coronavirus, from the horrible coronavirus, and the government says it's him, he's the one who's defending, and the opposition's not defending. You're freaking out, scaring people. For this we have the Minister of Health, in the normal country, the Minister of Health takes care of the matter. What's the Seym supposed to do, Mr. President? You're calling the Sejm so we can pass a bill that what, we don't like coritos? In a normal country, the Minister for Health He's putting this coritomus on the list of infectious diseases and operating under the infectious diseases bill. You don't need any specialty about this, simply and simply. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time when the Sejm is called to be demagogued so that the flow of words may flow. No, ladies and gentlemen, we need action, not words. And we don't need to scare people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u36	Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Coronavirus is a subject that should be above political divisions. This is a topic that should not be politically played by individual activists, candidates on the public stage. This is a matter that belongs to the security sphere of the state and where the state should work decisively. The state should have acted not today, not last week, not even mid-February, because the first cases of coronavirus on our continent were a month ago. It's a country that's overreacting today because it didn't work right at the right time. It is a government that does not understand that the effects of this epidemic will also, or maybe even to a major extent, affect the world economy. Because if that were the case, Minister Kaminski would also be speaking today in addition to the Minister of Health. He'd say how secure our boundaries are. Because the coronavirus, the epidemic, or at all any threat that enters the state, makes us aware that this utopia, the utopia of a world without borders, the utopia that was supposed to be realized after the entry into the Union and NATO, does not exist. That at the moment when the state is in danger, it is the special forces that are ultimately responsible for the security of the citizens of this country. What is the level of security at airports, at the return of the people, as was already mentioned today, from northern Italy, in the last month? Mass comebacks from spring break, also a significant part of doctors. What about the doctors who are coming back from these vacations today, including those at risk? The situation in health care is still very bad. What about the economy? Why aren't finance ministers, economic resorts speaking today? After all, China, the factory of the world in the modern division of labor, today has been short of breath due to this epidemic, this factory of the world. This will all have an impact, and already has an impact on our stock market, on the functioning of our companies, also on our pharmaceutical industry and on whether drugs are available in Poland. We do not have comprehensive information on these matters today. Unfortunately, we have a lot of blanks and this is the biggest threat to Poland today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? Any questions? No, two more clubs haven't used their time yet. Mr Bolesław Piech, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. One minute. There isn't. Those are questions? Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Coalition. There isn't. He's coming. It's okay. It's okay. I haven't seen your envoy. You were outside the door. No, next to us. I'm testifying. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In fact, much has been said here, in such a mode, including mimicry, demagogically and primally. I have one question. We know that in Italy, a decree to combat the epidemic was taken the day after the documented detection of COVID-19... CoV-2. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Are our actions being tested in any way in the European Union? Is there full cooperation with the countries of the European Union? Coronavirus, contrary to what you said here, unfortunately knows no bounds. You can't put up a wall, a fence, some different catchers that will isolate this virus from us somewhere. That question is therefore timely. What are the Polish initiatives in the European Commission, which works outside Parliament meetings to approve (the bell), issue specific guidelines on how to proceed in the Member States? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Coronavirus was found in China in December Ub. Knowing the dangers and possibilities of spreading this epidemic, we asked the Health Commission and the Ministry to convene a meeting of the Health Committee. This is the letter we sent at the end of January this year. There was no response. It was only 12 February that the Health Committee held its meeting. At this meeting of the Health Committee, we drew the attention of the representatives of the Ministry to the failure to include Coronavirus in the law on infectious diseases, which caused that in situations where a patient should be coerced, sick or suspected of being ill, to safeguard public health, to undergo treatment or quarantine... We heard from the Minister that this is absolutely unnecessary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So why were you so late, because it was only 27 February this year that you issued a regulation on this matter? [[Applause]] During these two weeks there was a public health risk in Poland, because sick and infected people could move among healthy people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u43	Dear Mr. President, Dear Prime Minister, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! I would like to ask if the recommendations on the conduct of nursing and medical teams are the same for all, the joint recommendations of the Minister of Health, the Chief Health Inspector and the National Consultant in the field of infectious diseases. What is the current route of transfer of patients suspected of coronavirus to specialist hospitals? Are specialized hospitals and infectious diseases departments prepared for today's room disinfection? How many coronavirus treatment facilities have been clearly identified? The number of times the air exchange in solitary is a condition for the patient's location with the coronavirus... How many such rooms are there in Poland? And appeal to you, Prime Minister: Don't take 40 million volunteer firefighters for which 300 cars were to be purchased, because firefighters are already saying that if we're healthy and the virus doesn't get us, we can still burn. 300 cars are to be bought for voluntary firefighters. It's supposed to be a bonus. The power of the bill we're going to debate here... Thank you very much. We're taking 40 million firefighters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u45	Thank you, Marshal. Prime Minister! Here we have heard warm assurances about the international scale of actions of the government protecting Poland and Poles from the negative effects of the action of Coronavirus. It was even from Mr Piecha's mouth that the question was whether the European Union would contest the government's actions. So I'm going to talk about more mundane details. Referring to the words of the chief health inspector of the country, that today, in the situation in which we are in, it is crucial to wash hands frequently, especially using disinfectant fluids... Disinfecting. Disinfecting. Such a dispenser is located here, at the entrance to the hall, but in tax offices, in social security companies, in voivodeship offices, where dozens, much larger groups of Poles are crowded than those gathered here, in this room, even if assistants and auxiliary services are involved, such dispensers are located? [[Applause]] Did you, ladies and gentlemen, protect your fellow countrymen from being infected? Do you have one in your office? Is there a possibility in pharmacies to buy such fluids by an ordinary Pole... [[♪ The bell ♪]] But do you have an office? ...who wants to go concerned and listen to the chief health inspector of the country... And finally, are the masks also available? I know the answer to that question, but I expect... She says no. But perhaps from the Minister or from the Prime Minister we will hear another. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u47	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a very technical question. Standard at airports, e.g. In Japan, there are thermal cameras. In this way, it is already possible to assess in the first throw whether anyone can be suspected of being infected or at this point in time in poor health. I'd like the person who's responsible and who has that kind of knowledge to tell us if there are cameras here. If they are at airports in Poland, how many are there and where are they? And if they're not there, are we considering ordering such installations and putting in place such a procedure to check the thermal camera? Like I said, a technical question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u49	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my questions to Minister Szumowski and ask how you feel, Minister, the state of Polish hospitals in the field of infectious diseases. The Prime Minister was giving statistics today. Are these figures for both HR and beds really sufficient? And don't you think that, indeed, the long-term omissions in the contract of services by the National Health Fund have caused a huge deficit today? And do you foresee measures to improve this situation? My second question concerns hospital emergency services. Don't you think the decisions your predecessor made were very bad? Because today's S.O.R.s are really the most dangerous places. And do you now also provide for a reorganization in order, as my fellow Member has suggested, to lead to such preliminary segregation, I apologise, of patients, especially those with infectious diseases? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u51	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In today's debate it was supposed to be consistent, responsible, with full empathy, to calm Poles and ensure health security. In the meantime, the opposition is asking why this debate today. Just so the Poles can see and hear that you're just lying. That's not true. The spokesman for the Civic Platform Jan Grabiec on Twitter during our debate wrote: At the time Coronavirus carriers infect hundreds of others. Is that responsible? Is that true? Your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska called for the truth a few days ago. Today, Minister, the Prime Minister has revealed the whole truth. Ladies and gentlemen, when will you apologize for this irresponsibleness? You apologize. And I dedicate to you the moral of Krasicki's fairy tale: Boys, stop it because you're having a bad time! For you, it's a game, it's about life. [[Applause]] And the girls? It wasn't there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u52	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition. Boys, boys, and girls are what?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u53	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Coronavirus and this epidemic, which is spreading around the world, is not just a human disease. It's also a disease of the states. Those who are not immune will be in great trouble. The ones that are immune can handle it. The essence of this resilience is the confidence of citizens in public authority. The feeling that public authorities know what they're doing, and they know what they're saying. Prime Minister! Named by your official, Mr. Jarosław Pinkas, head of the Chief Sanitary Inspector, last week, ba - on Friday, gave an interview in which he said that we don't actually know how many masks there are, that there's not enough for everyone, and if anyone's in trouble with them, make them out of bras. This is communication. a public authority that's supposed to calm the public's opinion? This is the resilience of the state that's supposed to make us feel calm? [[Applause]] It has not been four days (the bell) and the assurance that everything is okay ends with the bill that we will be dealing with today - the law actually in terms of the laws of the state of emergency. This is not building state resilience. This is not a proper communication with the public. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u54	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u55	Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Actually, we're dealing with a specialist today. My first question on behalf of the Left Club is this: What has happened since 2015 and 2016 and why is the Civil Protection and Civil Defence Act not adopted? This is a project that you discuss all the time. On the other hand, in a crisis situation - if this law had already been adopted a few years ago - we would not have to accept this specialty today. Second thing. The Spec Act, which is proposed today, imposes a great deal of responsibilities on local governments, but also gives many instruments for voivodships and state administration - that is the obligation to provide health care, the possibility for you to change the organisational structure of the Minister of Health when it comes to hospitals. My question is this: Are we really sure that local governments will not have to pay for the implementation of this law? 'Cause that's where they say you're crying. And another thing. Is this bill already known to local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was it passed on - as was it to us, Members, yesterday - also to the local government? Not at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u56	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. Is there a Member? There isn't. Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! A quick question, Minister. Why do we only have two centers, just two diagnostic laboratories, and both at this point in Warsaw? You told the minister there were six extras. I'd like an answer. Which towns are they in? And why are there only six of them? Why in every voivodship, in each of the 16 voivodship cities, can such a laboratory not function? Are these laboratories equipped with reagents that are necessary for virological testing? How many are they bought? And for how many labs? Why have only 400 studies been carried out so far, since this is the number that is performed on one day in laboratories in countries such as Italy or Germany? After all, what took you so long? Waiting time: 72 hours. A famous case from Krotoszyn - 88 hours waited for the patient. Studies in Italy, studies in Germany last 8 hours. We also expect this time to wait for results. Neglecting in diagnostics, not speaking with the laboratory diagnostics community, a small number of employees (the bell), a fatal salary - this translates into quality, waiting time and the entire tragedy of patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u58	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Violetta Porowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u59	Dear Mr. President, Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Minister! High Izbo! Today we heard from the Minister of Health very precise information about the actions taken by the Polish government. And that's from the very first moments when the message about the coronavirus appeared in the media space. We have received a reliable package of information on preventive actions, on operational activities. Nevertheless, the opposition is still thundering, even now that this package of information from the Minister has gone into public space. The opposition says that nothing is happening to prevent that there is chaos, that local governments, medical institutions in the regions operate without clear guidelines. So I ask the question so that the opposition can hear the answer so that the opposition no longer has a chance to spread the untruth. And here's the question: Who coordinates the work of services in different voivodships? And how does that happen? And how (the bell) does this information reach these services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u60	Thank you very much. Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u61	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Yeah, there's panic. Because people are scared. Because you're scaring me. People aren't just afraid of coritos, but people are afraid to live in a country where you rule and there's a koravirus. Ha, ha, ha! Oh... Because they know you've made a dictation and how you guys with matches set this country on fire. [[Applause]] I'd like to ask you a specific question. Prime Minister, you talk so much about tables. Well, that's more like it. How much money, where and exactly what are you going to spend on? Because here we hear: 40 million from the fire department, here Mr Hoc talks about 100 million. Prime Minister, concrete. I'd like to believe as a citizen, as a mother and as a daughter, that you're prepared for the coritos and that you're not using it for political purposes, but I look at these empty benches, I look at the silent president, I look at the lack of interest, and I think you're campaigning again. I suspect you're doing it again in fear and misfortune. Come to your senses. This is a joint matter. [[Applause]] And you guys are making a fuss again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u62	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u63	Mr. President! Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fast and effective diagnostics are very important in the fight against infectious diseases. Therefore, I would like to ask if the Polish country has the right amount of tests for the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Riad Haidar, Civic Coalition Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u65	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The epidemiological chain of diseases can most be reduced if the patient is diagnosed at the site of the disease. I'm sure it would be best if this basic health care did the right thing here to limit access to hospitals. Question to the Minister: Did the Ministry of Health give instructions on how to deal with the suspicion of corravirus infection to all medical subjects, starting with primary health care, night medical care, outpatient care, emergency medical facilities, hospitals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u66	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u67	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Minister! As we know, China is the main supplier of active substances for medicines for the European market, also for the Polish market. I therefore ask the government: Wouldn't the Coronavirus epidemic aggravate the problem and cause the lack of drugs in pharmacies as well as in hospitals? How will this affect prices? Do you control this, and do you have any knowledge? You're welcome. The next question concerns TVP. Because this is public television, I ask the question: Why is it that every hour or every two hours is not given short, even if it is a minute or a 2-minute message, which would indicate how society is to behave? I think that would be the best message he could be. That's why we pay for public television, so that in such cases, when the public is concerned, you can teach them how to proceed. And one last question about the border crossings. There's a lot of talk about airports, and what about road and rail crossings... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. ...including Ukraine and Belarus... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mr Marshal, this is an important subject, and you do not allow the Member to be extended for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u68	Everything's important. You have to stay in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u69	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! In the event of the risk of the outbreak of Coronavirus in Poland, it is necessary that services under different ministries engage in the fight against the spread of this epidemic. Therefore, I have a question: How many resorts, and which specifically resorts, are involved in the task of combating the epidemic coming to Poland? How does this cooperation look from the logistics side? Who is responsible and for what exactly? I also have a question about tests, because it seems that this is a very important topic in connection with so-called. the duration of the patient's stay in the hospital and, for example, this video revealed in recent days. Are these so-called tests? quick (Bingle), with less sensitivity and specificity, or long, 2-day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u70	Thank you, Member. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. There it is, there it is. There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u71	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, in this situation where not only Poland, but also the world, was present, I wanted to thank the Ministry of Health for its smooth operation, for the fact that all medical units, hospitals, were available 24 hours a day. I would also like to thank you for keeping these individuals informed and for the entire procedure related to the treatment of the coronavirus. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister: What amount is reserved in the state budget for the fight against the coronavirus? I want to stress, High Izbo, that health is not political, and the danger of health and life begins with hygiene. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u72	Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u73	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As a doctor working in a hospital and clinic, I am convinced that no procedures or standards of treatment in Poland are absolutely different from European standards and standards. I therefore have a question: Are the measures - and the procedures put in place - taken by the Ministry of Health differ from those taken in the countries of the European Union or not? Does the Ministry of Health consult and exchange information with relevant resorts of other countries of the European Union or not? I just wanted to finish the question. What tests are performed in Poland in the direction of Coronavirus? Are these rapid tests, with low sensitivity and less specificity, or are they carried out such confirmation tests that require virus culture and longer waiting period for results? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u74	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u75	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There were a lot of questions. I'll start with the facts I've been talking about in part. Information on diseases in Italy. These aren't the two people who came from Asia... Besides, Giuseppe Ippolito's message was clear: two people are in good condition and there is no threat of new virus outbreaks. This is data from Italy. Only the twenty-second were confirmed clusters, i.e. outbreaks of infection in Italy, and the next day as Poland we reacted. I would like to make it clear that the procedures were passed on to all units on February 25. Unfortunately, not everyone always follows these procedures. There was a case raised by Mrs. Anna of Krotoszyn, who unfortunately waited a long time. It is a great regret that this lady has been treated like this and has had such stress associated with the unjustified suspicion of Coronavirus. Unsubstantiated, confirmed. Then history naturally confirmed the validity of the procedures... Some kind of scandal. ...but, of course, we immediately introduced control in the hospital in Krotoszyn about why the patient was not immediately taken care of, not treated, not hospitalized. She deserved it. It was a frightened, sick woman who needed care and a sense of security. Of course, she deserves an apology, of course. The left had questions about the ZUS, the benefits. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, yes, benefits are due to people who are under house quarantine. The district health inspector's decision is enough and these people will receive sickness benefits. At the same time, the Act now entitles us to treat uninsured from a budget grant. So there's no problem with that. There were a lot of questions about drug safety. Of course, this is an extremely important subject. Thanks to the fact that we have electronic surveillance that we have finally computerized health care, we have on-line, hour after hour, day after day, information from which drugstores are coming down. We can keep up the good work. At the same time thanks to SMOKL - again computerization - we know what are the supplies of medicines to Poland, how they run. As of today, neither the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector nor any international agency has confirmed the disruption of the supply chain of active substances from China to factories that produce drugs. There was a question about the shipment of samples. The instructions are clear and clear: there is a special packaging method and then these samples can be transported by normal transport. There was also a question about the prices of various personal protection products and the scandalous behaviour of some companies that broke contracts with medicinal products. We immediately handed the case over to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The case is pending. In fact, it is unacceptable to feed on human fear. There was a question from one of your fellow Members about a good level of infectious troops, about which are good, really good or really good, and which are not really really good. With all due respect, I don't know what you meant. For me, all branches that meet the requirements and have been admitted - there are colleagues there who know about it - are good infectious units. Let me remind you, because once again there was a question about staff, that the number of doctors in Poland increased by 11 thousand and nurses working in Poland - by 17 thousand. Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz asked why we neglected the issue of infectious diseases specialists. Mr President, if you had increased the number of places in college, we would now have more infectious diseases specialists. We've increased by 3,000. the number and number of places in specializations. But I wasn't the minister of health. I hope that these specialists of infectious diseases will have more after these actions. [[Applause]] Bravo! However, as you know perfectly well, you are a doctor, we will not develop the infectors within 1 year or 2 years, because then we would have had the felchers. Populist. There were questions about the polls. I'm sure Minister Adamczyk will answer that question. There was also a question about HCV and HPV. HCV. Of course it's the HCV, sir. HPV is also included in the oncology strategy. This is to be refunded for everyone available in Poland. Great. As far as HCV is concerned, in fact, the HCV reduction programmes have led to the fact that in Poland, at the moment, HCV is at residual level. The problems are only in very key places, while with many years of HCV fighting programmes mostly in Poland, HCV has remained It's really eliminated. These viruses, of course, not only the crown, but others, are also very, very important. There were questions about the tests. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a few digits. In France, virus detection is 2.2%. , in the UK - at 0,2% , in the United States - at 3% , in Austria - at 0.6%. How many labs are there? in different countries? There's 12 in the States. At the moment, the United States performed 450 tests, France - 760 tests. This really is the beginning of the presence of the virus in many of these countries. These figures, apart from Italy, in which this figure is much higher, are relatively low. It's about the big numbers. And Poland? We have at the moment, I can say, a secure number of tests at a level well above tens of thousands. And how many tests were performed? With us in Poland it was made above 360. I'm not going to give you the exact number, but right now, of course, I can tell you that in the U.S. 450, in the U.S. 360. At the moment, however, as far as these tests are concerned, we have this secured at a level well above tens of thousands. We're just prepared for any eventualities. We have 11 labs that can do this right now. They're all running tests. Of course, university laboratories are still available, which we have not yet launched. Let's hope this number we have allows us to run all the tests we need. There was a question of coordination in voivodships. At the moment, the voivodships reported that they have placed 365 medical agents in all voivodships in an elevated state of readiness. This is the base, which on the first, so to speak, the throw, if the coronavirus appears, is available, is placed in a state of higher alert. Increased staffing. I was actually talking about the expansion plans. There was also a question from the Member about the procedures at the SORs. Mr President, of course these procedures have been passed on. Few of this, it has been reported by voivodships that hospitals, where infectious troops are, have prepared a chapter not only of SORs, but also of emergency rooms for so-called. an infectious chamber and a non-infectious chamber. It's on standby. We're waiting for the virus to show up. The question was when the messages and instructions were transmitted. Like I said, February 25 and 27. There was also a situation concerning transport from Korea. I'm sure Minister Adamczyk will tell you more about it. All those people who were tested and at one airport, and at the other airport, had the correct temperature. There were no signs of infection with the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be shortcomings somewhere, but the examples you have given are not quite showing a lack of preparation. On the contrary, if the transport is from Korea, all patients - I'm sorry, I'm already speaking medically - all passengers have their tests done, they have their temperature checked and they have their patient location charts filled out. If I'm missing something, of course I'm available. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! There are a few issues here that need to be addressed. There are also questions to be answered. Mr President, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish asked about the Road Transport Inspection. You were asking about international transport... Yes. ...so you asked about the Road Transport Inspection. The Road Transport Inspection at the beginning of the previous week, when we were dealing with the outbreak in Italy, provided all entrepreneurs with instructions on how to behave, what to do to protect themselves from the virus. It is a manual for drivers of cars who have gone towards countries in difficulty. Furthermore, the Road Transport Inspection has also secured 18 international bus lines, all 18. It conducts a check-up and test at the first stop for 18 bus lines from countries from southern directions, including mostly from Italy. So if you're having second thoughts about securing... Individual cars. As far as individual cars are concerned, we are unable to seal the border. This is practically impossible. Both road transport inspectors and border services have full knowledge and specific procedures in case there is any case of an infected person in an individual coach or a passenger car. We're talking about organized transportation of people and things. I would like to refer to what Marshal Kidawa-Błońska said. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Minister of Health have called for the debate on Cortipinus, which is probably worrying, not to bring up fake news, lies and false information. I am very sorry that in her speech, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska spoke to the services whose task is to ensure the safety of passengers. She said the untruth which, I'm sure, her coworkers prepared, sealed. What do you expect from you? Don't lie to me. Your marshal said these words: How to explain the case on Saturday, when the patient who arrived from Korea got in, said at the airport that she had a high temperature, that she was ill, she was put on a plane and the ambulance took her only in Krakow? Ladies and gentlemen, the Saturday flight of Polish Airlines LOT from Korea took place in accordance with procedures. The safety of passengers was also ensured in accordance with the procedures. The flight crew, the captain, whose name I have, and the head of the deck took care of this - especially the head of the deck together with the crew - so that all passengers returning from Korea to Poland would be tested. They were asked about the possibility of a medical condition. Medical teams entered the airport in Warsaw and measured the temperature of all passengers. The passenger that your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska probably meant didn't have an elevated temperature. That's from the location card. And here is the answer to Mr Kosiniak-Kamish's question, which serves the location card. The location card, which is available to the airport services - informed me that the president of Okęcie Airport and the head of the Civil Aviation Office - showed that this lady, who was mentioned by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, had no medical symptoms. She got on a plane to Cracow, and it was properly ensured that she would go through procedures. Why? Because she flew in from the endangered state. The procedures are precise. She was taken by an ambulance? In Warsaw? This lady was examined at the airport in Krakow. A location card was downloaded from her. He's under constant medical care, under the control of a regional health inspector and a district health inspector. In this case, the procedures are working. I very much regret that the efforts of all those who put a great deal of energy in every day to minimize... Then where's the lie? ...possibility of infection is thus - by such fake news, false information - destroyed. What fake news? It's a lie. Here's another thing. The answer to the question about the possibility of measuring passenger body temperature by means of thermal cameras. The Head of the Civil Aviation Office has made a recommendation on this matter: if in one peak, passengers 60% within one day the aircraft will have to be subjected to temperature control, then the measurement will have to be introduced using thermal cameras. The European Aviation Safety Agency has issued a Coronavirus Directive. It recommends testing the body temperature of passengers on board aircraft. We are prepared for the possibility that procedures for testing with thermal cameras will have to be implemented. These cameras are tested at airports in Krakow and Wrocław. If anyone is in doubt, I inform a priori that railway services, railway operators, traffic managers PKP PLK, PKP Intercity services and station services are equipped with procedures in case of staff meeting, serving railway workers with persons, passengers whose symptoms could indicate the possibility of flu or coravirus infection. An example is what happened on Saturday on one of the railway lines. The train manager and the conductor team responded properly. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those serving at airports, railways and in motor transport for their hard and responsible work, which aims to minimise the possibility of the spread of the epidemic of Coronavirus in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Kaminski, Minister of Interior and Administration, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u79	Mr. President! Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address some of the points that Members have raised, whether in their speeches or in the course of questions, especially concerning financial matters. As you know, the Minister of Health has reported that in 365 health care facilities, the voivodships have introduced a state of increased alertness. This means that the voivode in immediate feasibility mode may issue binding decisions concerning, for example, those institutions. increase the number of staff, increase the number of hospital beds or convert hospital units into infectious units. All such activities will, of course, not be financed by hospital budgets, but by NFZ funds. The second very important information. As you know, at the end of last week, the Prime Minister launched 100 million PLN from his special reserve for health care units in the context of the development of the epidemic. This morning, proposals were received for funding of PLN 19 million, although we expect a percentage of such applications to be received during the present day. So that at the end of the day we will know whether 100 million PLN will cover the needs of health care units in connection with the development of the epidemic. But above all, the voivodships are currently examining the reasonableness of these proposals. Each of these proposals will be evaluated. If these really are rational needs, they will immediately be covered by the amount already activated by the Prime Minister, the amount of PLN 100 million. But these are not all the potential measures the government can launch to combat the epidemic. Of course, everything will depend on the evolution of the epidemic, on the scale of the threats. In addition to the 100 million already mobilised for these needs, the prime minister still has an additional 100 million zlotys in this reserve, but in fact the most strategic financial reserve, if it turns out that the epidemic is taking really dangerous proportions to society, is at the disposal of the Minister of Home Affairs. It is the sum of PLN 1300 million, which is earmarked this year for the fight against natural disasters. This amount can also be used in the context of epidemiological threats, so that it is this strategic financial reserve to meet the needs of epidemic development. Let us hope that this will not be necessary, because this, of course, is a question of the scale of the threats to our citizens. We would like this scale to be as small as possible, but the reality will show how it will develop in the coming days. However, we are prepared, we are financially secure: and the NFZ, and the Prime Minister has already launched the funds and we have this strategic reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a question about the wagons for the voluntary fire brigade to be purchased for this formation this year. A little louder, no noise, Minister. I'll try to be louder. There was a question about buying combat cars for volunteer firefighters. One of my fellow Members has expressed concern that the measures necessary to cover the needs of the development of epidemiological risks could cause damage in this area, so I am definitely dementing. Not only will they not prejudice this, as these are separate budgets and funds for the purchase of new combat vehicles for voluntary firefighters are prepared... I'm also denouncing the number of 300 combat vehicles. Well, the government wants to bring about a situation - and it has the resources - for this year's voluntary firefighters to receive 500 combat vehicles. That's our goal, that's the task we're going to accomplish. [[Applause]] 500 combat vehicles. The largest number in the history of new cars, which in one year will go to voluntary firefighters. All the problems we have with the outbreak have nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, and another issue that I will take more generally regarding border security. Don't worry, the Border Guard is prepared for all possible developments. At the moment, the Border Guard, its officers, for which I thank them very much, are helping airport workers in their prevention activities at airports related to the development of the disease. On the other hand, any possible option that is rational and appropriate will be applied by the government. The Border Guard is prepared for every variant of the situation. At this point in time, however, officials operate at airports and support airport staff in preventive action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Pinkas, Chief Health Inspector, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u81	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Minister of Health Prof. Łukasz Szumowski said that he has been a doctor for twenty years. I've been a doctor for 37 years. I think I have a lot of professional experience. I have a few specialties, I work in science. I'm Dean of the CMKP Public Health School. I'm the chief health inspector. I know there's a cure for coritos. This is a potion, quite uncomplicated, ladies and gentlemen, to create. We make it in our own heads. These are, ladies and gentlemen: responsibility, knowledge, access to reliable information and something that needs to be called self-liability, which comes primarily from knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Łukasz Szumowski spoke about the coronavirus for 30 minutes. That was the minimum of the minimorum. It was an absolute shortcut. I've got the papers in front of me. I'm not gonna read it. We probably wouldn't have left the High House until tomorrow. It's not like you can't check it out. It's all on the site of the Chief Sanitary Inspector. Every day, every hour, every information is, ladies and gentlemen, 65 messages and guidelines, recommendations on how to behave. 37 constantly updated messages. Check it out when he was first. Check us out. It's extremely simple. Nothing on the Internet dies. 37 travel messages. Ladies and gentlemen, what is GIS? Who are the state health inspectors? Who are the health inspection personnel? These are people we often forget. We only talk about them when we're in control, sometimes we pay a ticket. But these are the people who have led to the situation that in Poland there are no epidemics that used to be. We're a safe country. We don't have polio, we don't have real smallpox, we're very well vaccinated. We could be better, but it all depends on you as well, the emanation of your knowledge. You're supporting the anti-vaccine movement. Ladies and gentlemen, we serve as best we can. 16,000. employees now require absolute peace, because these employees must be available with their knowledge. They're the ones who operate the phone line, picking up all kinds of questions. They are professionally prepared thanks to the fact that the Chief Sanitary Inspector works day and night, not since 23 February, but since 9 January. Please see what our activities have been like. Our activities are primarily monitoring and extremely precise analytical activities. What can surprise us? Nothing should surprise us. Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! There were words here, which are extremely important and which will be remembered by all those who did not fully understand the phraseological relationship, which is: public health. This is the most important thing. Public health is activities for the benefit of the population, medical activities, medical professionals for the benefit of the population. It's mostly knowledge. The new paradigm that we are introducing in the field of public health at the moment is lifestyle medicine. Lifestyle is an ability to obtain information. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the following situation. The analysis was followed by actions that led to the creation of so many documents. To create a document, a few, dozens of people have to sit on it, have to reach consensus, have to check the legal possibilities, see how things are in the world, how they are in Europe. I can assure you that if someone ever evaluates the involvement of the Polish state in the fight against Coronavirus, we will certainly be those who will create a benchmark for other countries. I can tell you this consciously. [[Applause]] Here we do not have to have hope, here we are sure, because it is only a matter of determination, knowledge, integrity and medical integrity, integrity of scientific workers who work for me, integrity of the entire government. It will be, it will be. Of course, God forbid. Ladies and gentlemen! We've got labs, we've got the right number of tests. The fact that they are transported by airplanes is only to keep the cooling chain, but after all no laboratory in Poland ran out of tests, there was no downtime. We're starting another... We have highly educated laboratory diagnostics who use the same methods as they do all over the world. Why are we waiting so long for the results? That's why we're waiting for the results that we're doing it with methods that give 100%. I'm sure. There are screening tests that need to be repeated later, and they suggest that your doctor should take appropriate care of you. We... And the others? And others do it exactly the same way, and please see how it's done in the United States. We collect materials, we study it, and we have 100%. I'm sure. [[Applause]] If we have any doubts, we repeat the test. But in Italy, after three hours, they have results. Mr Nitras, calm down. This is not the time for this. There are 1,600 cases of disease in Italy. In Italy, sir, they have such... In Italy, screening tests are usually carried out, while we want to have a situation where we are absolutely sure. Please take a peek at Twitter, for example, at the corporate side of the lab diagnostics. There the head clearly explains: please do not depreciate the work of Polish laboratory diagnostics. This isn't happening because of logistics deficiencies. This is only because it takes time to be sure. These tests are to be carried out in a manner consistent with the assumptions. These tests, ladies and gentlemen, are purely supportive of the doctor's work because there is no cure for this virus. We treat symptomatically. After a few hours we can figure out that we have it, we can do things differently, even with families, but there's no inertia here. There's no inertia. We do it with tests that are available all over the world. The whole world is demanding these tests right now. It's all new, isn't it? In order to create a new technological line, when it comes to producing tests, it's got to be a long time. You have to sequencing genes, it's a very complicated, extremely complicated diagnostic procedure. We're testing a particle of the virus, we're not testing antibodies. It can't be done in 15 minutes. We do it with methods that are approved by the World Health Organization. We're not gonna back down, we're not gonna let it happen that we're just gonna do something if we think we're gonna do something. We have no right to seem. We're supposed to be sure. And we're sure. [[Applause]] As long as the patient survives. Patients will survive because we have highly educated doctors, laboratory diagnostics, highly educated nurses. Please kindly pay their respects at this difficult time. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, information: Polish Television has released 480 spots so far. The range of the GIS website is monstrously great. Excuse me, Prime Minister, but we've got more coverage than the Prime Minister's office. We'll keep it for a while, then hand it over. The amount of information, posters, speeches in the media of my employees, I think that also the peace that we emanate, the medical calmness, the reliability that causes us to survive all of this and to be safe. Let us work, let us work 16,000. staff and give us immense support, support for all parliamentarians, all those who know that this potion really works. The composition of the potion is on our website and on the tweet that is about to arise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u82	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm accept the government's information about the actions taken and the state's preparations for the epidemic threats in Poland and Europe for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 09 h 22 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. The Health Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 266. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll be careful... Objection. And to what extent, sir? Longer time? In this respect, which your honorable marshal has cared for herself... As a matter of fact... I understand that the opposition was raised and Mr Grzegorz Braun also asked... a formal proposal, yes? You're welcome. Yes, sir, but first vote no. Well, if you'll excuse me, ma'am, first... In that case, I'm managing a 15-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 04 hours 22 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. In view of Mr Braun's objection to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall be decided in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? 359 Members voted. For 347 votes against, 10 votes against, 2 abstentions. Oh, Waldek! The Sejm accepted the offer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to calm down, because we're still gonna have a second vote. But that must calm Mr Andzel, he is going crazy. But the Member is calm now. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion, would like to raise your hand and press against, the button. Don't imply it. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? 370 Members voted. For - 366, against - 3, one person abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the government draft law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (prints No. 265 and 266). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. There's been a formal motion, and you're lost. I do not have this proposal in writing, sir. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u83	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, prints No. 265 and 266 respectively. The Health Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 2 March 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. I would like to say that one minority request has been made. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, your marshal, High Izbo, I would like to thank all the clubs for their extremely constructive cooperation. Perhaps with one exception - this should be clarified - this cooperation was indeed very good. I thank Minister Dworczyk for his great openness from the government to the proposals that were put forward during the discussion, but I also thank the opposition for taking into account those opinions which the government presented, which were also put to the vote in the form of amendments tabled by law and justice. Thank you. It really was a pleasure to cooperate in such a harmonious atmosphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What took you so long?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u84	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bolesław Piecha will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis caused by them. At first, I also wanted to thank you for working on the committee. Despite the high tensions, however, we have managed to reach consensus. I would like to remind you of what the rapporteur did not mention: 26 Members voted in favour, with only two votes against and one abstention. This bill is very important. Let me remind you that the World Health Organization a few days ago in its statement stated that the risk of the CoV-2 virus is very serious, and concluded that there is a high risk of spreading an epidemic. Therefore, the government has presented a project which covers all aspects necessary to carry out the tasks to combat this infection and, in particular, its spread among humans. These are both anti-epidemic, preventive and orderly tasks, financial tasks and tasks that we would probably not have discussed if not for such a threat. What was the most important thing in this bill to me? First of all, this law imposes certain obligations primarily on government authorities, state authorities, local governments, as well as on entrepreneurs, healthcare providers, hospitals, clinics. The relevant rigour and commitments are described in this Act. I must say that there are also legal regulations here that concern, first, the way schools are closed and what will happen, like school, nursery, kindergarten will be closed. I must say that there is a very good solution here, because children who are not sick, but whose nursery, kindergarten or school has been closed can stay at home under the care of a parent who will be able to receive additional care - up to 14 days. Why 14 days? Because the experts have determined the extent to which the disease is hatched and affected. If the child gets sick, then the mother, the father will be able to benefit from the statutory 60-day allowance. This law also says that if the school is closed, teachers will not lose their right to their salaries - it is very important - like other employees. This law also emphasizes - which I think is very important - some of the tasks it imposes on the health centre, which is our main health inspection. I must say that it is a good thing that we have recently adopted this law which centralises this inspection, because I think that then these rules can be implemented in advance and not on the side. [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, it's the whining, the new customs on the tram... This law also talks about finance, which is how it is financed, and lists sources of funding - that is both the state budget and the National Health Fund budget. This law has also settled matters relating to the Construction Law. A little respect for a friend at the club. Construction law has a number of very important aspects, and I will remind you that in China two hospitals were built in 13 days during the outbreak. If in Poland we apply the Construction Law as it is today, we would build maybe 13 years. This law also regulates matters relating to possible speculation concerning medicines, medical devices, personal protective equipment. It is simply the Minister's announcement that there will be basic medicines to fight this virus. Mr President, your colleagues are not listening to you. I can do the same as you. And this. it itself imposes an obligation to maintain the maximum prices of medicines contained in that Regulation or in that notice. This is a sine qua non condition to cut off speculation. It also imposes an obligation on pharmaceutical wholesalers and manufacturers of certain medical equipment - in order to direct their products to Poland and not abroad. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. It assumes the necessary actions (the bell), described clearly and properly. I ask the High House to accept this bill. [[Applause]] At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am asking the Marshal to proceed without delay to the third reading of the bill, without referring to the committee any amendments or requests made to this bill and after the service of their Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u86	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz. [[Game in the O.R.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, pay attention - it is also a request for ladies and ministers. The Prime Minister also...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It hasn't been 20... Oh, no, it's just been 24 hours since that project appeared on the sejm page. 24 hours we are proceeding over a law which is actually a law concerning a certain kind of health emergency condition. In 24 hours the Polish Sejm will create a basic barrier against the threat of the coronavirus. This mode is extraordinary. This mode reminds us, those of the opposition, of the ungrateful traditions of this Sejm. But on the other hand, we understand the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of the problem. 'Cause it's not rock poop. But there's one thing I have to say. Well, this mode contrasts extremely strongly with what happened a week before. Well, a week earlier we were all calmed down that everything was okay, that no natural, no extraordinary means needed. There's full control, everything in the country is on the last button. It turned out only a few days later that we had to adopt the bill within 24 hours. With the entire reservation against this mode, with the whole problem that he is giving birth to, and also with the matter of this law, I would like to say one thing and stress it once more before the High House. People aren't the only ones who have Coronavirus. Yours, too. And it is in the interests of the state that its resilience is such that it protects citizens so that there is no situation in which this weakness of the state costs the lives and health of citizens. This is why the Civic Coalition promised here this morning, by the mouth of President Boris Budka, that we would join in this activity, that we would cooperate with you in spite of this mode. What's it supposed to be? Not because we are under any political compulsion or blackmail, but because this is the essence of the mandate of a Member who must think in terms of the whole country and not just party business. [[Applause]] Bravo! It's a good thing you finally figured it out. In the course of the work, compromises were reached at different levels, but above all also from our perspective, from the perspective of the Civic Coalition, to discharge some degree of distrust towards the authors of this law, but also the legal matter itself. This mistrust was mainly about the risk of violating civil liberties and freedoms, as well as imposing burdens on citizens that we believe should not be the case. And that's how the article changed. 10, delete article. 13, amendments to Article 23, 24. I would like to stress that these changes are on the initiative of the Civic Coalition, the Left, and now note - in the case of Article. 13 - also according to the Civic Coalition, the Law and Justice and the Left were accepted. The Civic Coalition will support this bill, but don't let the government count on us not to look at his hands. We will look at hands in two dimensions: firstly, the effectiveness of the government, the protection of citizens, the effectiveness of the law, as well as the rights and freedoms of citizens in this area, or sometimes it will not come to anyone's mind to use this law for completely different purposes than those for which it was adopted. I'm sure we won't set fire to the booth. We are convinced that the weight of responsibility on the government will be properly understood because the government has been given an extraordinary tool. Let me put it this way: I do not envy the importance of this responsibility. This is responsibility, and if you carry out it, you have no right to triumph, because it is your duty, the duty of public authority. [[Applause]] Thank God she's not pregnant with you. But I will also say words that are rarely spoken in this House. Well, in the interests of all of us, Polish citizens, the Republic of Poland, I wish you to bear this duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Marcelin Zawisza will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by saying that we know that the situation with Coronavirus is tense and that we're acting under pressure of time, but that the virus exists, we've known since December. As of Thursday it was known that there would be a session of the Sejm, while the bill was posted yesterday after hours. 22. Respect for the opposition is one thing, I don't suppose you'll show it to us, but at least show it to citizens and citizens. In view of the mode proposed by the government, the possibility of voting in the debate was deprived of the Ombudsman's voice, but most of all it was deprived of the social side: trade unions, medical professions, patients and patients, citizens and citizens. We have proven many times as a Left that we are not afraid to enter into dialogue with the government, but respect ourselves, respect the citizens and citizens and abandon the disastrous practice of not having even a few days to consult, especially in the case of government projects, especially such important projects. However, after today's debate, I can say one thing: this law has been improved in key places, including through the efforts of the Left. It worked, among other things. introduce time limits for the application of its provisions. We managed to remove the article. 13 and introduce, at the request of colleagues from the opposition, from the coalition, an obligation for the government to present a report on the operation of the law once every quarter. The bill is still not what we would like, it does not solve many issues, but there is a significant improvement. What's not in it? It does not address compensation for workers and workers remaining on trash and self-employed contracts. Despite the introduction of several appropriate solutions for times of crisis, systemic solutions concerning drug safety are still lacking in Poland. Poland must start producing active substances and medicines so that we are independent of what is happening in China or in any other region of the world. There's no safe society without drug safety. There is no safety without the certainty that when we go to the pharmacy, the drugs will be available for us there, also in times of crisis, and that if we get sick, we will be sure that we will be able to heal. On the other hand, this bill is needed and I am glad that it has been improved. Today in Parliament it was just as normal as it should be every day. We worked together: the government, the Left, the remaining opposition, on the amendments. I do not, of course, wish the rulers any more of these extraordinary and dangerous circumstances, but I wish us all a job like today. You can see that you had to have left in the Seym to finally get out of the trenches. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Ha, ha, ha. The Left Coalition Club will vote in favour of the bill you have proposed, following the amendments that have been made. We believe that, as parliamentarians, we have a duty to work on projects in substance, even if you report them a few hours before the meeting. But out of respect for citizens and citizens, do not do this because citizens and citizens see the way in which you work and that social organisations have not been able to express themselves. This really isn't something you couldn't organize. If you were to present this law on Thursday, the organisations could gather during the weekend and present their opinions. We could make a better law based on them. 'Cause it's not like we're trying to make a fuss. We want to make a better law. The Left in this Seym is to create a better law, and we will always be happy to help you create it, just give us time. Please. Give time to citizens and citizens and do not ignore their voice. Thank you. [[Applause]] But there's no time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u90	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The seriousness of the situation requires first of all approval in Parliament, even if we are presented with a bill written on our knees and in such a way. What was the problem today that we should know earlier, even if the members of the Health Committee, that the government is going to write a bill and present it, so that the Members who work in the Health Committee can arrive early and get acquainted with it? The fact that we are adopting this law today does not change the fact that it needs to be improved. Many things have been improved in the committee, but not all of them, starting with the issue of daycare and kindergarten, and ending with the business that everyone is complaining about, but only in theory, because when you have to submit specific provisions of law in this House, it is not so funny when it comes to entrepreneurs. As the Polish People's Party, as the Coalition Poland will always consistently insist on Polish entrepreneurs. We also believe that cooperation with local government must be improved during the implementation of this law. The local government in this law has been treated as a stepmother, but I hope that during the practical cooperation and implementation of this law there will be room for proper treatment of the local government. I hope that this will be done by government officials. I hope that the voivodships will cooperate properly with the local government. We also believe that despite the omission in these legal arrangements, the funding system for infectious branches should be changed and that the health care system should be changed seriously, especially at district level. He's been waiting for real support for years, not just declarative support. This could be changed by amending the GIS Act, giving these powers, which were requested not only by the Polish Coalition, but also by other parliamentary clubs. It wasn't done. I hope that these conclusions, which will be drawn in practice in the fight against the virus, will also be implemented. We believe that the government should report regularly on the functioning of this law. First of all, it should start with how the requests of hospitals, medical rescue stations and health care units were met and the requests for the purchase of individual equipment addressed to the government by the voivods were made. We know that hospitals, voivodship medical emergency stations or other medical emergency stations apply for equipment, both which costs several dozen zlotys and one which costs several hundred thousand zlotys. I hope that soon the government will boast about how many millions of zlotys have gone to these facilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Very nice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u92	Thank you very much. Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. Mr Sosnierz will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u93	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! This bill is actually self-incrimination from the government, because even a month ago this government told us that we were prepared as a Boy Scout for a trip, we don't even need to add this virus to the bill, and yet today it turns out that we suddenly need to change 30 laws in one day. So when are we supposed to believe you? When were you telling the truth? Then or now? Then and now. The characteristic feature of the state's dictation is that every now and then you have to tie a cardboard box with a string to this structure to keep it going. And that's exactly what we do. Instead of implementing some procedures in advance, we write another specialty, and this is about ASF, and this is about CPK, and this is, like now, about the virus. That's no way to act. In addition, yesterday you said that this meeting would only be informative, but in secret you have already worked on this law without sharing this information with us. It's not surprising that it arouses a certain suspicion. The question is whether we really need these changes here, now, immediately, or sometimes it is not so that using the alibi created by the epidemic, we are trying to push through the various restrictive rules that will restrict civil liberties, economic freedoms. They'll interfere with so many different laws that we can't agree to throw it into our legal order permanently in one day. We cannot allow some temporary circumstances to permanently change the law in such an important way and in such an accelerated manner. That's why we tabled an amendment on the committee. The point is that these rules are only temporary in force for six months. At that time, you will report these provisions, in a normal manner, with consultation, with the possibility to analyse all their effects, the envisaged ones and the unforeseen ones. In fact, dozens of amendments were tabled during the proceedings of the Health Committee. Every now and then there were some glitches, some errors in this bill. Really, God knows how many more of these glitches are going to show up when we start implementing this law when we start applying it. Unforeseen by the legislators will probably result in the fact that since we are announcing the confiscation of medical equipment in this bill... These threats are read by entrepreneurs. The Czech Government buys this equipment at a price higher than the market price, so no one will wait for the Polish officials to come and take it for free, just to sell it. If it comes down to it, it's just not gonna be there. In addition, as always, with such a legislative fire, someone is trying to bake their sausages. This is where the pharmacists have proven themselves revolutionary. They've arranged that the minister will be able to prohibit the sale of simple drugs without a prescription outside of the pharmacy. What's the point? From a citizen's point of view, it's counterproductive. We're restricting his access to the drugs he might need. It's better for him when he can buy it in Biedronka than when he can't buy it in Biedronka. The official justification of the ministry lady was that the government would just like to know how, who, how much, who sells there to whom. Pharmacies have such a reporting obligation and others do not. It is simply that for officials to fill out the tables better, citizens will have less access to medicines. Well done. For these and other reasons, the Confederation will not support this law. Out of procedural caution, we maintain our amendment. Meanwhile, let us proceed quickly before we know that what we're doing is pointless. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u94	Thank you very much, sir. The second member of the Confederate circle, Mr Grzegorz Braun. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What a spectacular agreement over divisions, like when the bill was being processed here... God's blessing wasn't there. ...which allows the use of sharp ammunition by foreign troops on the territory of the Republic of Poland - outside the area of the field, not at war. This is what Minister Macierewicz was investigating. But this bill was waiting for Minister Macierewicz on his desk because Minister Siemoniak left it behind, so important matters concerning national security, as you can see, are settled here in a consensual manner. If you like it, fellow Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, if you consider this procedure to be appropriate for matters of national security, do so. The Confederation does not support this project, although the council would proceed with some great, unified draft law on emergency states. For we are not pacifists or naive boarding houses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u96	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. 20 parliamentarians signed up for the questions. I close the list and set the time to ask questions for 30 seconds. [[Applause]] Oh... Thank you very much. Objection. If this is for real, it's an objection. Mr President, this is a Marshal's decision. Mr President, it is up to the marshal to set the time for questions. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, will ask you as the first question. The Member resigns. The question will be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u97	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! In Silesia, which has 4.5 million inhabitants and is particularly densely populated, there are seven infectious troops. There are 203 beds in total. In Gliwice, Zabrze, Bytom and Tarnów Mountains there is only one branch - in Bytom. In the event of an epidemic, people would have to be transported all over the voivodship, which poses an additional risk. Some clinics only received guidance on the algorithm of treatment in case of suspicion of coronavirus on Friday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time. So I ask with concern, what exactly will the government do in the event of an epidemic to ensure that all those in need in Silesia... Thank you very much. ...necessary medical care and prevent further spread. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. He's quitting. The Member resigns. Ms Agnieszka-Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The disease has no party colors, which is why the Left will support the government bill. We will support it as strongly as we will look at your hands when you pursue its objectives, with no reduction. We'll settle you. The Left will account for whether and how you will react to scandalous speculation in the medical product market. We're gonna figure out what you're gonna do to put an end to the disgraceful process of price-lifting masks and disinfectants... Where's the question? Question, Member. ...which today are rising by 300, 500, and even 900%. Question. That's it, Marshal. Time. How are you gonna do that? The Left will account for how you take care of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u100	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're resigning. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the main advantage of this debate was to convey some reassuring words to the Polish society. That's something to appreciate. I would like to point out that not all the elements cited have been taken into account. An example is the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. However, entrepreneurs are to bear part of the costs, e.g. planning. It seems that this should also be compensated. The second example is tourism services and related services. It's about art. 13. There are e.g. certain expenditure incurred, for example, by entities leaving for Erasmus (The Bell). These people have incurred flight costs. The airline companies don't want to give them their money back, claiming to have some paper to do it. Thank you. Good. Thank you very much, sir. So I think this problem needs to be solved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u102	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. You're welcome. You're resigning. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My question concerns the Ministry of Development. Art. The 13th Act refers to the possibility of reimbursement of the contribution to the guarantee fund - it is about tourism insurance - due to the possible occurrence of the virus. I would like to point out that, according to entrepreneurs, there is no clear record here that speaks of the type of announcement, communication or decision related to the outbreak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The absence of such an announcement will cause problems of interpretation concerning the bill. [[Applause]] That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u104	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mrs Monica Falej, the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u105	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In Ostróda, in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, there are five isolation units in the infectious ward. In Olsztyn itself there is one solitary for children in a specialized hospital for children. My question is, when are you going to increase the availability of places like solitary? What specific expenditures will you use for hospitals in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship so that people can feel safe? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u106	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're about to adopt a specialist. Society is interested in concrete, concrete actions. Is there any provision for a social campaign, for an information campaign on this specialty that we're about to adopt? Are there measures in MEN for the purchase of soap which, according to WHO, is the basic measure that should be used? It's about washing your hands. Will there be a social campaign in schools and will there be money to buy soap? Today, the funds for this purchase are lacking in schools all over Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u108	Thank you very much, Member, thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u109	This bill will be great when you don't need it at all. On the other hand, we participated as a Levite in the procession over it, so that it might be as good as possible. I would like to thank Minister Dworczyk and President Latos for their friendly conversation at the committee meeting and for the opportunity to make all the proposals we have had. But I also have a request for you to tell this stripper from public television that what happened at the beginning of the day was irrelevant by the end of the day... Mr President, the question is: Mr. President. Because the signature on the belt was: political opposition game against the bill. That's not what happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u110	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u111	Thank you very much, Marshal. Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have to say, I flew that plane on Saturday, Minister, who you say wasn't on the plane. I've been filling out a questionnaire, Mr. Minister, which you don't think was there. There was an ambulance that you didn't think was there. Liar! And really today, Minister, we need to consider whether it is about the health and life of Poles or about cheap propaganda. Because if I'm here with you today, I'm moving between you... He's safe and sound. ...it's also about your health and your families. Once again (The Bell) I repeat: concrete, real actions, not party propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Why don't we turn on the time, sir? Is it nice to lie like that, Mr. Adamczyk? Mr. Adamczyk... You've turned red. Don't touch, don't touch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What is good in this bill is not new, and what is new is not good. I feel like this is really some big theater, a big circus that's been going on here all day. After all, the government, instead of actually taking time to really fight the coronavirus... We were at the meeting of the Sejm, which was called by the President, who did not speak, where nothing relevant was said and nothing relevant was passed. Instead of really fighting the coronavirus. It's... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, joy in the room, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u115	I understand that haste with the law was necessary because the virus waits at the borders and without the law did not want to appear illegally in Poland. Bravo, Janusz! I'm asking if there's an opportunity for this to happen, a bill that bans public gatherings, especially those above 450 citizens. On the other hand, some symptoms of the virus have already appeared at the Health Committee meeting. Namely, there was a point with maximum prices. I mean, this is completely idiotic. How the price will increase e.g. Five times, it will immediately appear in two days masks imported from Brazil or from another country. Speculation is a good thing, not a bad thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u117	High Izbo! The virus is new, but the threat is old. The essential duty of any normal state is to be prepared for an epidemic of more or less dangerous virus. And today, all of you, voting for a specialty because of one particular virus, admitted that the Third Republic was not ready to fight the virus epidemic from the beginning. [[Applause]] 30 years. And that is your shared responsibility: the government of PiS, the government of PO-PSL, the government of the Left. And this shared responsibility has created today's great coalition of sham politics to cover it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u119	High Izbo! It is natural that quarantine is the primary preventive and preventive measure in the risk of COVID-19 disease. It must be borne in mind that the isolation will be subject to families, including young children. Does the government provide for children and their parents to be present during quarantine, especially in hospital conditions? In what cases will quarantine take place at home and in what hospital? What steps will the authorities take if both parents show symptoms of infection and the minor child does not show such symptoms? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For we must expect that future relatives may not or may not be able to take care of their children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u120	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We know that this bill is extremely necessary, but it's just a certain prosthesis in crisis management. I therefore have a question: When will the government submit a comprehensive draft law on civil protection and defence, which will comprehensively regulate the state's behaviour in such situations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u122	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by Minister Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, member of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome. Let go of the Adamic. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u123	Give me some more, please. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the questions, too many of these questions have not been asked. I'm just gonna talk about the ones that concern the bill that we've been working on together today. Firstly, I would like to refer to the speech by Minister Sienkiewicz and Mr Sosnierz, who said that two weeks ago, two weeks ago, there was no mention of the bill, and today it is. It's true, ladies and gentlemen, it's true. A week ago, two weeks and three weeks ago, there wasn't a bill yet. Why? Because the coronavirus has been known for eight weeks. Because it is a new situation not only for Poland and for Europe, but for the whole world. The Polish government, which from the beginning, when this virus appeared in China, has gradually increased its strength and resources to prepare for this until this disease reaches Poland, at this moment it reached this stage that legal solutions are needed and we thank you very much that we were able to work together on them. And I would also like to tell Minister Sienkiewicz, who said not to treat today's bill as a triumph, that it is not about triumph, because it is not about how many amendments have been adopted. The point is that today we have a chance to adopt a law that will simply be good for all Poles. That's the most important thing. Mrs Kretkowska asked if there would be soap for schools. I can answer with full responsibility that we'll secure it if not soap, it's disinfectants. I hope you'll find out soon enough. If necessary, they will be fully secured. One of the messengers here spoke of us being accounted for. It's Mrs. Dziemianovich Fart. The Member said that we would be cleared. Very well, account for us, because that is the role of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to the amendment that the government will report to the High House in three months' time. That's our job. We really have nothing to hide. Every time there are questions, we'll answer them, we'll keep you informed of what's going on in the fight against the coronavirus. And, ladies and gentlemen, to those who weren't on today's committee, who didn't have time to read the bill, I'm going to say in 17 sentences what this bill contains. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will allow remote work to be introduced during quarantine or epidemiological surveillance. Thanks to this bill you will be paid benefits for the time of closing daycare, kindergarten and school. It will free medical services from airport inspections. It will be possible to exclude public procurement from the Public Procurement Law in respect of contracts necessary to counter the coronavirus. It will be possible for the President of the Council of Ministers to impose obligations on medical companies and local governments. It will be possible for the voivod to issue instructions to the administration. We have introduced, at the opposition's request, an amendment that we can appeal against this. It will be possible to exclude the Construction Law when it is necessary to fight the disease. You will be able to perform additional tasks by active service soldiers. It will simplify the transfer of the assortment by the Material Reserve Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have been able to agree on a number of matters today. We also agreed that information and communication are very important. I was concerned about what your marshal said: after leaving this room today, I will not know what to say to my patients, how to behave when they feel they may have had contact with infected people because they have returned from abroad and do not know whether the elevated temperature is a symptom of this disease or a common cold. The bill's gonna let them know. And I say it with a smile to everyone in this room who is in a similar situation to look at, like a few million Internet and TV users, for 30 seconds on this spot. You'll find out everything you can. Marshal, you're welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There is a video on the boards about the information to be provided]] Bravo! Turn off the lights. It used to be the little girl's show. Jokes. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u124	Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, Member of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I don't know what happened to Mr Suchoni. The Member probably did not understand what I was talking about before noon from this speaker. You lied. Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! The plane of Polish Airlines LOT from Korea to Warsaw was flying on Saturday. There was a passenger on that plane that you were talking about in your speech, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. This passenger was taken care of by a liner crew from Seoul to Warsaw. Where was she going? Where'd she stay? A medical team boarded this plane in Warsaw. She examined everyone, checked the temperature of all the passengers who flew to Warsaw. There was also a conversation on the plane with the lady who was going to Cracow. I address Mr Suchon, who did not understand. Mr, this lady, this passenger flew from Korea through Warsaw to Cracow. She flew a cruise plane from Warsaw to Cracow. She was taken care of by medical services in Cracow because she flew in from Korea. That's not the point. Man, do you understand something? She filed a locator card, checked it out. She met all the conditions so she could go home. That's it. That's it. Dude, come on. If Mr Suchoń has informed you of Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, then I sympathise with your Marshal of such informants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u126	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The discussion made a request for a third reading, without referring the draft law to the committee, following the service of the table of amendments to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection! There's an objection. We will proceed with the vote. Member, corrigendum. You're welcome. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u127	I am very happy because it seems that the most respected Minister was, however, polite not to understand me. I am very pleased that in this misunderstanding the Minister confirmed everything that your marshal said earlier, and everything that I said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u128	Thank you very much. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft government law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In view of the proposal not to send the bill back to the committee, objections were raised. I will put to the vote a proposal for a third reading without referring the draft back to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to join the third reading of the draft law in print No 266 without returning the draft back to the committee would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 399, against - 13, holding down 5. The motion has been accepted. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 266. I will put the minority's request to the vote first. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of... Question. There's a question. Excuse me. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska, Club of the Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? I'm coming, I'm coming. One minute. What are you, in your pajamas? Pajama party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You owe us one more explanation that you promised at the committee meeting. You can write down everything on paper, but it's not really gonna work if the money doesn't go for it. You're pointing out a disaster reserve here, but we know that we're probably going to have a drought this year, too, and that money is going to have to be used for another purpose. The Minister spoke about the fact that there are other sources that we have not yet heard about. And we still need tools. Today also doctors in voivodships, and patients say that they are not equipped with any tools that lack materials that lack drugs, that the Material Reserve Agency does not give what they report in need. If you do not give the tools, you will not give the money for this purpose, this bill will do nothing. We'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u130	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 192, against - 223, no one stopped. The minority claim was rejected. We move on to the examination of Amendment 1. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For-- 109, against-- 221, holding 85. The amendments were rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Two Members have asked questions. Mr Borysław Budka, Boris Budka, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sorry, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We managed to make up for lost time, because the state for many weeks did not want to admit that specific solutions were needed. What's that for? But after what we did together in Parliament, we need another step. This step is to allocate PLN 2 billion to Polish health care. [[Applause]] It is now in the hands of the President of the Republic, but not enough veto. This money should be spent on Polish health care, as we have been talking about for a long time. There's one more thing I want to declare from this place. Well, I just spoke to the Senate Marshal Tomasz Grodzki. Oh... You don't like him. And in order to make up for the time to make up for what you have unfortunately lost in these weeks, the Senate of the Republic of Poland will meet again this week to make up for what you have not wanted to admit in recent weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u132	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Winnicki, near the Confederation. Does he have a name?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u133	Robert Winnicki. Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's do it again. At the request of the President, we are gathered in extraordinary mode today to hear government information about the preparations for the fight against the coronavirus. We didn't hear anything from the MMA from the Responsible Services. We haven't heard anything from the economic departments. You weren't listening. We have also heard nothing about the actions that the President, who is responsible for the security of the state, is taking in this respect. If someone doesn't listen, they won't hear. We haven't heard anything about the cabinet board he should have called. There was no such information. He didn't even speak. But today you have all, all of you, the PiS, the opposition that was afraid to oppose it, the Platform, the Left, who asked for the rejection of this project, the PSL... You don't have the guts to tell them that they're doing a pointless thing that doesn't in any way help fight the coronavirus instead of working on it honestly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to you. That's the truth. [[Applause]] You should get your cotton wool out of your ears...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u134	Thank you. Now Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let me start by answering Mrs Hennig-Klosek's question... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. It's emotional. I'm so sorry. The day was exciting, so forgive me for twisting your name. Why do you have money to fight the coronavirus? [[Game in the O.R.]] Dworczyński. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize again. This money, first of all, is now secured in the emergency reserve - 1300 million. Secondly, there is money from the general reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers - 200 million. But what is most important, because we do not know how the situation will develop - that is why we have entered into the law, which we will be voting on in a moment, art. 25, which allows the Council of Ministers to shift expenditure between the various parts of the budget and provide the necessary resources for the fight against the law. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ha, ha, ha! With the coronavirus, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, it's tired. Tired. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you. Come on, 30 more seconds. I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs for the fact that today we have been able to talk in substance together, especially at the committee meeting for many hours we have been able to come up with a number of solutions that have made the legislation that we are about to adopt good. I would also like to thank you for taking President Andrzej Duda's appeal seriously... Oh... ...to rise above political divisions. It's been a lot of things, but... [[Applause]] Oil's getting cheaper. It was different, but in principle we were able to talk in substance today. I don't think I'm the only one, and I'm the only one, and that's the kind of voice... ...has nothing to do with it. ...were in this room, which really sentimentally, you can say, referred to a situation that is actually normal. The president gave some clues, the government prepared a project... Ha, ha, ha! ...the opposition has made good corrections... No. ...and the High House will accept the bill. And this bill will simply effectively protect the citizens of Poland. Please support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u136	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 266, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Maybe Braun's infected. 418 Members voted. For - 400, against - 11, the 7. [[Applause]] The Sejm has passed a law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 7th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, the Law and Justice Club, has the first vote. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 69 years ago, on March 1, 1951, in the evenings a cell filled in a prison in the Warsaw Mokotów was slowly empty. The guards made her almost half the prisoners. Among them were seven officers of the 4th General Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence: Colonel Łukasz Ciepliński, Major Adam Lazarowicz, Major Mieczysław Kawalec, Capt. Francis Blaze, Captain. Józef Rzepka, Capt. Józef Batory and Lt. Charles Chmiel. Each of them was led individually between prison pavilions to the back of one of the buildings. There, in a place not accessible to the eyes of other prisoners, prison executioner - sergeant. Aleksander Drej was doing communist justice by shooting at the back of his head. It was on the anniversary of this event that the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers was established in 2011. Only 60 years after those events, the Polish authorities started the process of restoring the memory of Polish defenders and Polishness, about the heroes of the anti-communist underground. The consciousness of Poles began to restore names such as: Gen. August Fielddorf ps. Nile, Col. Stanisław Kasznica ps. Wąsowski, Colonel Antoni Olechnowicz ps. Pohorecki, Major Bolesław Kontrim ps. Mutant... [[Some of the Members are up.]] ...mjr Zygmunt Szendzielarz ps. Lupaszko, Major Jerome Dekutowski ps. Dam, Major Marian Bernaciak ps. Orlik, rtm. Witold Pilecki ps. Witold, Captain. Zdzisław Bronski ps. Jump, Captain. Władysław Łukasiuk ps. Hammer, Captain. Henry Flame, ps. Bartek, Captain. Stanisław Sojczyński, ps. Warszyc, por. Zdzisław Badocha, ps. Iron, por. Marian Pluciński, ps. Mstisław, cf. Edmund Bukowski, ps. Zbyszek, propor. Antoni Wodński, ps. Odin, lieutenant. Henryk Wieliczko, ps. Lufa or Danuta Sidzikówna, ps. Inka. The method of execution of the death penalty called the Katyn method and the unimaginable Ubec tortures applied to the prisoners became a symbol of communist enslavement and hatred of Polishness. In this way, people who were uncomfortable with the new power were disposed of, which might have prevented the Sovietization of Poland. But that wasn't the end of it. It was also necessary to make the memory of them disappear, so that no one would ever remember them again. The bodies of the murdered were never released to their families. They were secretly exported to unknown locations and hidden in anonymous pits. To this day, many of them do not have their grave. To this day, families don't know where to light a memory dent. According to historians, over 20,000 died in UB and NKVD prisons. soldiers. A large number of the detained were deported to the Soviet Union or sentenced to a long-term prison. The last member of the anti-communist resistance movement - Sergeant. Józef Franczak, ps. Dolls died on October 21, 1963, 18 years after the war. Their only fault was that they refused to give Poland under the authority of another invader. They didn't agree to the Sovietization of their beloved homeland. They wanted Poland free, sovereign, independent, independent. Maintaining a free and independent homeland is a task for every generation. It's our turn tonight. Now we have a duty to protect her and defend what they fought for and what our ancestors died for. Now we must show that we want sovereign Poland, Poland ruled by Poles. Those who have given their lives for free Poland should be honoured and honored, and their good name must be permanently recorded in the consciousness of Poles and on the pages of history. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I appeal to the authorities of the Republic of Poland, to the government and to the parliament to take courageous and decisive action to properly honor the cursed soldiers - the soldiers of the Polish Army, who were faithful to their homeland and the oath made (the bell) to the end, so that we would surround places covered with blood and marked by the suffering of the anti-communist underground soldiers. I appeal and ask that the place of secret burials in the territory of the Military Cemetery in Powązki, the area of the Ł headquarters, become a true national pantheon of memory. Hello and praise to the heroes who gave their lives for free Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u138	Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, we have an extraordinary meeting of this House on the Coronavirus case. The Polish government has been repeating for almost two months that this virus will reach Poland and that we do not need any additional action. Then suddenly, tonight, a bill is introduced to improve the Polish health service and not only to counteract this virus. Of course, we're in favour of any additional action. North, east and west of our country are sick, and we don't have them? As you can see, this virus respects our administrative boundaries. Maybe not a lot of people have been tested. Ladies and gentlemen! More than 100,000 recently. Poles returned to Poland from Italy, which are the second country after China with the highest rate of disease as far as Coronavirus is concerned. Why do some patients wait up to 88 hours to be diagnosed? In China or Italy, the results of the virus test are expected for several hours, tops. In Poland - 88. And they're sending from the hospital to the hospital. Is that how we're prepared? The second issue is the lack of availability of masks and bactericides in pharmacies throughout Poland. The masks are available only via the Internet, at prices 10 times higher than two months ago. Has the government ordered them yet? In today's speech, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about the need for passengers to fill out questionnaires. The problem is, no one picks them up after that. This is mandatory only for people arriving from China. Where are the other directions? 2 days ago I flew from Warsaw to Gdansk and passengers from Hamburg got in. Some of them were really cold, they were all wearing masks. Nobody stopped them at all, didn't examine them, didn't check them, nobody wanted a questionnaire from them. So don't tell me we're well prepared. I would like to point out that the disease in Italy has reached such a scale because the virus got there before the government started blocking the road by suspending flights from China. The actions of the Italian Government were considered sufficient, but were already carried out after the virus had entered Italy. We should take an example of this and learn. Poland's Air China, on the other hand, flies to the best. Shouldn't the Polish government suspend these flights, following the example of other countries? Next question. Is it true that the laboratory in Warsaw taking samples for research is only open until hours. 15? What about the 24-hour hotline the government was talking about? Is the sampling staff trained only in infectious hospitals? It's just that the staff isn't enough. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what we are prepared in the media, as the government emphasizes, the washing of hands and hygiene courses, and in the event of a real threat we simply have chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u140	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's session of the Sejm is entirely devoted to the risk of the Coronavirus epidemic. Therefore, as a Member of Silesia, I must express my concern at the situation that is taking place there. I remind you that there are about 4.5 million inhabitants in Silesia and it is a region especially populated. There are seven infectious units, which means 203 beds. In Gliwice, Zabrze, Bytom and Tarnowskie Góry, i.e. about 800,000. people, there is only one branch in Bytom, so in the event of an epidemic people would have to be transported around the voivodship, which represents an additional risk. Some clinics only received guidelines on Friday, algorithms of treatment in case of suspicion of coronavirus. They're supposed to set up a place for hospitalization and arrange transportation, which is difficult not only because of the crowds of people in clinics, but also because of lack of staff and equipment. 35 medicinal entities in Silesia are required to remain alert to receive persons in the event of an emergency health risk. According to recent data, 10 people are hospitalized in Silesia and nearly 400 are supervised. Mass events such as Intel Extreme Masters in Spodek are cancelled too late. The decision on this matter came so late that some people arrived anyway, because they simply were not informed about it in due time. People from all over the world came to Katowice and wandered around the city, were very dissatisfied with this situation. Attractions were organized for them at the Katowice Gallery, so it was still a real threat. Those who wanted to come to this party were about 170 thousand. persons. The actions taken are basically shamed and, in fact, we are not prepared for a large number of diseases. The staff shortages and the situation of hospitals also do not provide any guarantee as to the possibility of providing real aid in the event of an epidemic. So I ask with concern what the government will do specifically to ensure that all those in Silesia need medical care and prevent it from spreading further in the event of an epidemic caused by Coronavirus. Will the special act we have adopted really improve the quality and availability of health protection in the context of the risk of coronavirus? I hope so, but I have a lot of doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u142	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Zbigniew Herbert in the poem entitled: Three poems from memory wrote: let us not let the dead die. I think that these few words can be treated as a specific will of a poet directed to the next generations, so that they will not be allowed to die in the sense of memory of the fallen, murdered soldiers cursed, soldiers steadfast. I think it's a good motto to also refer to everything that happened on 1 March throughout Poland, because the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers, which initiated the dead. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, is an important element of building awareness and historical memory, building historical truth. On 1 March, in many places of Poland, we observed the huge involvement of young people. I think Herbert, when he wrote this poem, meant this new generation. These young, wonderful people engaged themselves to restore the memory of those who were murdered only because they wanted Poland free. Free from Soviet ideology, free from Soviet occupation. Unfortunately, these young people met with a sharp attack on certain communities, which we call post-communist, neo-communist or new Left. Instead of saying thank you for their efforts to build this community, their awareness, as well as the historical truth, they met with an incredible attack, nothing unreasonable. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I had the pleasure of attending Zduny near Krotoszyna on 1 March in the IV Zdunowskie Pole Zagończyk. This course commemorated the memory of the Major. Francis Jaskułski, pseudo. Zagon, who lived in Wielkopolska, in Kobylina, and studied in Krotoshin. I've seen the involvement of children, adults, families. This beautiful event was also a form of meetings and memories. To be precise here, in the High House, I would like to mention those who have won this race. In the category of children, Przemek Matysiak took the first place, Zuzia Kubicka took the second place, and Filip Kubicki took the third place. In the group of adults, Mr.Szymon Winiarski from Jankow Zalesny took first place, second place - Tomasz Owczarek from Cieszkowo and third place - Kamil Nebula from Kobiern. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank Mrs Jolanta Szymanowska, director of the Zdunowski cultural centre, as well as my social assistant Mr Łukasz, who committed himself to preparing this day's memory of the cursed soldiers, and to ask from this place, not only Zduna near Krotoszyn, but also all other places, to bring about such beautiful events as those we saw last Sunday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u144	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the actions of the Social Security Office towards women engaged in economic activities. For the past few days, ladies in letters and e-mails have been writing, among others.: In my and many other women's names, I would like to ask you to take an immediate interest in the case of the worsening control practices of the US, which is alleged, among other things, by this. we create fictional activities, carried out only to achieve sickness benefits and maternity benefits. And if the plant is unable to prove the fiction of the companies we run, it is unlawful to challenge the basis for the assessment of the contributions declared by the entrepreneurs, undermining the decisions it has previously made, and reduces the benefits already due and paid back, even for a few years, most often to a minimum. As a result, many women have received or will soon receive unlawful decisions requiring the reimbursement of these benefits paid by the Social Security Office within 30 days, of course in the gross amount and with interest. The U.S.S. forces us to pursue a long-term, psychologically and financially enduring battle before the courts, which, as we are currently observing, allows for unlawful actions of the U.S. Women, instead of enjoying motherhood and fulfilling it 100%, are forced to cry out for help, to write appeals, to go to court," writes Joanna. - Personally, I don't think I've ever been bothered like this before. I can't sleep, I can't eat, I can't focus on anything, because I'm wondering why and when I'm gonna have to move out with three of my kids to pay off the benefit that ZUS paid me a few years ago, without questioning my conclusion, because everything was legal. I wonder why a ZUS employee changes his mind after a few years. We ask you to respond urgently and stop the unpunished actions of the US against working women and mothers. As Members of the Sejm, we should defend such matters and ladies who take action to defend their own interests. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Labour and Social Policy kindly to take an interest in this problem and to identify it so that these ladies do not have to feel threatened by a public institution such as the Plant Social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski. For a few days now, we have been discussing the possibility of a Coronavirus epidemic and the risks associated with it. The extraordinary meeting of the Sejm on this matter did not completely dispel my doubts about the safety of Poles and Poles. Concerned about the situation are residents and residents of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship who asked me to intervene. The infective department of the district hospital in Ostród is the only place in our voivodship to which patients from all over the voivodship are directed in case of suspicion of the disease of Coronavirus COVID-19. Today, two people with suspicion of coronavirus were brought from Ełk to Ostróda, which means they had to cross half the voivodeship. It's over three hours of travel for sick people with suspicion of a virus. As a messenger to this land, I am just worried and I would like some information and answers to questions. Is the hospital ready to receive patients in the event of an outbreak? Is there a sufficient number of places and beds in Ostróda County Hospital's infectious ward? Concerned patients are afraid of the worst-case scenario. So does the facility meet all the requirements, the standards, to take good care of them? Is it equipped with appropriate equipment, even basic, masks or suits? It is worth noting here that in Olsztyn itself, the voivodship city, there is no infectious branch for adults. In the event of a life-threatening situation, residents and residents of Olsztyna must also go to Ostróda. Is it therefore in the plans to prevent a public health risk that an infectious branch for adults is established in Olsztyn? This would undoubtedly be an excellent solution that would increase the safety of residents and residents of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Dear Minister, Disturbing information has come to me in the last few days. According to them, according to the voivodship health inspector in Olsztyn and according to information provided by the directors of hospitals from Warmia and Mazury in the entire voivodship, in all infectious branches, only five specialised beds are available for respiratory quarantine, while in the infectious ward in the Voivodship Specialist Children's Hospital in Olsztyn, as far as I know, there is one so-called. Isolation, which currently serves children after chemo, with reduced immunity. Therefore, I ask the following questions with great care and I ask for specific written answers. What is the result of such a small amount of equipment? Do you realize that in the event of the outbreak of the COVID-19 outbreak, the inhabitants of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship are in danger? Have you been informed of this? Are you going to take action to improve this situation? Are there any plans for financial support for hospitals that can provide specialised equipment such as masks or aprons? In the children's hospital alone on Friday there were only 32 masks, where the staff for one shift is 15 people. I believe that you care about the safety not only of the inhabitants of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, but also of the whole Poland. Please take concrete steps to improve the safety of patients and patients from all over Poland and to answer written questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u148	Thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u149	High Izbo! I have to say with regret that we have problems in Poland with much less authorage than some fabulous specialties. The case of a woman from Krotoszyn, who waited two hours first in a waiting room jacket, addressed to a hospital with a suspicion of coronavirus, and then 88 hours later waited in solitary, because no infectious hospital would accept it, and the lab could not examine the sample for 88 hours for some reason, whether it was infected at all or not - it was not because there was no speciality. This was due to the fact that the health system is running cancer. There's a cancer of bureaucracy going on. This cancer of bureaucracy causes doctors to have their hands tied with the best intentions and best competences, because doctors in Poland cannot treat, they have to perform procedures. They just had to follow the procedure, and that was the result. Until we change that, until we rebureaucratize health care until we introduce an element of healthy competition, as it is on the market, so that at least the money from the NFZ goes after the patients, so that medical institutions compete for this money, for the patient, until we change it, as long as such specialties as today's will be grotesque gibbas, which they only have to cover, distract attention from the ordinary, ordinary inability to protect health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u150	Mr Patryk Wicher, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly yesterday, March 1st, we celebrated a special day - the national day of the cursed or steadfast soldiers. This is a special moment when we restore the historical memory of these unique people, who are still unknown to us in what graves they lie in. For us, for the nation, for those who remember history, for values: God, honor, homeland, the most important thing is to restore their memory, and for their remains to rest in the cemetery. So we can worship them. During this event, on the other hand, there were numerous celebrations, races, but also Holy Masses in their intention. In the intention of their souls, but also in the intention of restoring their memory and remembering these heroes of our time. Unfortunately, not all environments even respect the constitutional right that we can publicly confess our faith. Not everyone likes the fact that there's a holiday service going on. They think this Holy Mass can be interrupted freely. Unfortunately, that happened yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. One of the Holy Masses, exactly in Goclaw, was interrupted by shouts, verbally - one can be happy that only verbally. This mass was notoriously disturbed by the LGBT and Left environments supporting Mr. Biedron. Unfortunately, the other side was not respected. There's no respect for the Holy Mass. The intentions were not respected or respectful of those who were gathered there. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the slogans are exclaimed: tolerance, equality. But on the other hand, you don't respect the other side. Her views, her traditions, her history, her faith are not respected. And this is very important, ladies and gentlemen. If anyone wants to say he's tolerant, he has to tolerate all sides. Let us remember that Poland has been a tolerance country for centuries. But tolerance doesn't mean acceptance. My dear fellows, as Archbishop Jędraszewski said, the metropolitan of Krakow, who was the guide of this Holy Mass, the spiritual guide of this Holy Mass: ideology - no, man - yes. Catholic faith, Christian faith, says: we respect another man. Man is the center of our business. Respect for another man, whatever he thinks. That's tolerance. But tolerance doesn't have to be... This follows acceptance of this ideology, which has devastating roots for faith, family, tradition, history. And this event, ladies and gentlemen, and that's why I'm stepping out of this podium against him... Let us respect the tradition and faith and the religious feelings of others. For centuries, this respect has been very important to our tradition, history. So let's keep it that way. Let us respect each other and respect our customs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u152	Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we celebrated the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers, whose traditionally most important point on the Italian soil is the Wolf's Trop, organized in the village of Dobromierz. It is here every year that the community pays tribute to those who have not yet returned to it when they leave the house. We're talking about solid soldiers who fought to the end for the rest of their lives. For many years, they were forgotten as soldiers. They were portrayed as bandits and their families were harassed. On this one day of the year, the whole of Poland integrates together in action and runs for them and for their memory. The history of this race dates back to 2011. True, its character was more intimate at the time, because the number of participants was Not much more than 50. Since 2015 the race has been nationwide and is a permanent event, which grows stronger year by year and the number of participants in the current year was around 75 thousand. people, while its organization took place in 370 localities. Yesterday I had the privilege of hosting the eighth edition of the race. It's in Dobrzemierz and what brought my special attention is the view. many families taking part in this event, as well as the fact that the whole families organized this project. Joint action for one purpose. No one there asked who you were, didn't build a hierarchical wall. From registration to running, each participant was a welcome guest. This is probably also influenced by the name of the village itself, which requires kindness - Dobromierz. If so, the place to celebrate on 1 March through the course of the Wolf's Trop The municipality of Kluczewsko could not choose a better one. The host of this event, as always, is the principal of the primary school. Major. Henry Dobrzanski, Mr. Rober Dzierzgwa. It is on his initiative that they accept the invitation not only from the residents of the Italian district, but also from patriotic associations from all over Poland. Everyone on this special day appears on the run to show how one husband shows support for his ideas. Only one who has participated in it once knows how good this course is. This run is not only a tribute to the cursed soldiers, but also a history lesson for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u154	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u155	The years 1944 and 1945 did not bring Poland neither freedom nor sovereignty. Violent Soviet occupation, imposed by force on the communist system, the loss of half the territory and the ruthless persecution of all those who opposed the Sovietization of Poland: exports into the Soviet Union, arrests, murders, provocations, full prisons and camps in which Germans suffered recently. Resistance against this new occupation took various forms: from political and civil warfare to armed combat. Soldiers of the underworld fighting communist slavery today call them cursed soldiers, for the memory of them was not only to be tarnished, but also to be disgraced, defamed. For decades, they were officially called bandits, portrayed as criminals, murderers, rapists, and drunkards. They were tried under fake charges, murdered by false convictions and buried in nameless graves. The last soldier who was cursed died in a fight in 1963, many of his colleagues left prison even in the early 1970s. However, it was time that free Poland claimed its defenders. The pits of death are opening, and the heroes in them regain the identity, honor, the right to a worthy burial and a good memory of their heroic sacrifice and the fight of the worthy soldier's oath they have taken. The underground army is returning. The history of those who sacrificed Poland's freedom returns.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u156	Statement on the commemoration of the National Day of Remembrance, Soldiers of the Cursed. Through my statement, I would like to stress the importance of the date of March, which commemorates the soldiers of the Polish post-war underground of independence and anti-communist. It was the soldiers who were cursed who put the active and permanent resistance of the Soviet Union to the Soviet Union and to the Soviet Union. By opposing the forces of the new aggressor through the fight, they had to face the huge propaganda of the People's Poland against them. Mobilising and heroic and endless fighting of the soldiers cursed was the first instinct of defending the Polish society against Soviet aggression and imposed by force on communist authorities. Active resistance was an exemplary example of anti-communist armed conspiracy, in this case, the most numerous on a European scale. It covered the entire territory of Poland, including lost in favour of the Soviet Union of Eastern Kresa II of Poland. It should also be recalled that President Lech Kaczyński took the legislative initiative on the adoption of the National Day of Remembrance for Cursed Soldiers in 2010. This day has greatly contributed to the formation of model civil and patriotic attitudes, and figures such as These heroes, like thousands of others, fought for free Poland, and the people's power treated them as traitors. Throughout this period they presented a heroic attitude and were deprived of all rights, hunted in forests, imprisoned, murdered in the Katowice of the Security Office and Military Information. In order to pay their due honor and memory, celebrations and races of the Wolf's Trop are organized throughout Poland for the memory of the cursed soldiers. As part of this nationwide sport and patriotic project, traditional races take place mainly at 1963 m, which is a symbolic reference to the year in which the last soldier, who died in battle, was cursed - Józef Franczak, ps. Dolls. Hello and glory to all heroes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-02-sejm-07-1.u157	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the seventh session of the Polish Sejm. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 8th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 25 and 26 March 2020, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 52]]
