ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance at 3 p.m. 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u2	Thank you. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on public roads and certain other acts, print No 349, - amending certain laws on protective measures in relation to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, printing No 350. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll be careful... Objection! ...that the Sejm accepted the proposals. Objection! You don't have to scream again. I can hear you, sir. Thank you. We will start with this, ladies and gentlemen, by checking the quorum. I ask all Members present in the Chamber, in the other chambers, as well as those who are remotely connected to us, to press any button to verify the quorum. You're welcome. Thank you. There are 396 Members in the session, i.e. a quorum. Before we vote on this proposal, which was an objection, we still have two formal proposals. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Time - 1 minute. I understand you'll allow me first to justify my objection to the marshal. You have one minute to file a formal motion. There you go. But you want to put an objection to the vote without justification? Mr President, you have a minute to file a formal application unless you resign.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u3	Dear Marshal! You want to put an objection to the vote without justification. I therefore move on to my formal proposal. The formal conclusion is this: let the debate on a law that has to change plus minus half a hundred different laws be a debate, not a plebiscite. Public roads? Let it be a debate, not a plebiscite. I understand that in the first place we will debate this bill, which you call a shield, we call a concrete rescue wheel for Polish entrepreneurship. The objection was to public roads. Oh, you see, it's not even clear at this time at which time we'll be voting at what time. So I'm asking you to change the way you conduct the discussion and not to regulate the speaking time of clubs and circles. That's my formal conclusion. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u4	There is no debate on this, Mr President, so this proposal is not a formal proposal. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask that the Seniors Convention be convened and that there be a break in order to put on the agenda an important item concerning the Prime Minister's speech yesterday and the words that we will open educational institutions at kindergarten and nursery level. Prime Minister, you said yesterday that we're opening kindergarten. And we got hundreds of e-mails from people who didn't know what to do yesterday, parents who don't know what to do about a case that was put on the shelf by the Ministry of Education, because even on the website of the Ministry of Education, there are no guidelines that would allow kids to go to school. I'm the father of a 5-year-old son myself, and on behalf of both my son and those tens of thousands of kids, I'm asking that we talk about this today because we're about to have the end of this Seym week. The fifth, sixth kids are supposed to go to school. And then what? And what's four? - Five. - six-year-olds and their parents do? 'Cause they don't even know if they're wearing masks. Or not. And calls to the Ministry are being made laughing. Well, it shouldn't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u6	Thank you, sir. This proposal is irregular, unfortunately I cannot accept it. But there was a request for a break. Of course, I will not call the Senior Convention because you know very well - you are a member of the Senior Convention - that this is a non-regulatory proposal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the vote. There has been an objection to the proposal by the Sejm to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in those paragraphs. We therefore proceed to the vote... We will settle this matter in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 274 - for, 141 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (prints No 344, 344-A and 350). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u7	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the examination of the draft law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the proliferation of SARS-CoV-2 virus contained in print No 344 and printing No 344-A, the government's self-correction. After first reading the Parliament's plenary meeting, the proposal was addressed to the Public Finance Committee. Yesterday, the Public Finance Commission examined the project very carefully, working 8 hours on it. More than 30 legislative and editorial amendments have been introduced to this proposal as well as substantive amendments. These were amendments tabled by various clubs, among others. opposition clubs. Included e.g. an amendment which extends the scope of the entities entitled to use the stock of the Material Reserve Agency to include social assistance homes. The most discussions were raised by the solutions proposed in the amendments to the Civil Code, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Penal Code on Anti-Liquidity Solutions regarding the protection against auction of dwellings. The discussion was not so much directed towards substantive solutions, because these were not questioned, but mainly towards the fact that the mode of change was incorrect. On the other hand, this particular, difficult time, when among others. Many people are exposed to anti-Liquidity behaviour, to the signing of loan agreements with the transfer of ownership of dwellings, caused these solutions to be adopted. During the meeting of the Finance Committee, it was also discussed solutions concerning the rights of the Social Insurance Institution to collect or share or to process data in electronic form, although it turned out that After clarification, these data are collected anyway, only in paper form, hence the transition to electronic form is of course natural. There was also a rather turbulent discussion about the appointment of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, except that, after the Minister explained that it was really the implementation of European law, these changes were adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! I submit a report to the committee, recommending that the bill be adopted at the same time. At the same time, we submit five minority proposals in the report. I recommend that the High House adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u8	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Andrzej Costowniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u9	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the second reading. There was a very long committee meeting yesterday, and I think we've finished about an hour. 12 a.m. We've made a lot of adjustments. Indeed, matter is complex, it is a large law relating to many legal acts. I think that today, after making further amendments, I will allow Mr Marshal to make eight further amendments. We're gonna rescind this bill, and we're gonna be able to adopt a good piece of legislation. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u10	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Urbaniak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pace really is amazing. I don't even know if the PiS club performance lasted a minute. Formality. And this is the shield. 3.0, accepted in the middle of the night, as the President himself admitted. In a few hours we change e.g. three codes, which is absolutely forbidden and unacceptable. And our constitution, and our previous constitution, and the constitutions of other countries, and the rules of the Sejm, and the judgments of the tribunal say: the codes do not change in such a way, they should be considered. You have witnessed the fact that the lawyers at the finance committee were arguing about the codes, and you guys took a hard ride after all this political struggle. We have an epidemic in Poland. You are presenting a pretend-law that is supposed to help Poles, Polish entrepreneurs, to help, and really after what we saw in the Committee on Public Finance yesterday, we know that you only care about two things: elections and money. [[Applause]] After all, in this act there is no aid for entrepreneurs, no aid for Poles. You've closed the barbershops, but you're sending children to daycare in an epidemic state. You've closed the fitness salons, but you send the kids to the eagles. Excuse me, but I'm going to turn to you gentlemen: have you ever played soccer when you were kids? There's direct contact. You can't practice in a fitness salon, you can't take physical life to be immune, but you send our kids to eagles. Well, explain to the little guys who play their whole lives who dream of a soccer career that they don't have to play football. What are you doing? The Polish Federation of Fitness clearly tells you that this is 100,000. jobs in Poland. You shut them down, you don't have a plan. There's a program in other countries that's exactly how to get out of it. You can actually keep your rigour there. And you don't have anything to say about Instead of helping, you're hurting. What's in this bill? Well, there's such a desperate desire to access personal data in this bill, because the local government didn't give you the electoral census, there are changes to the Personal Evidence Act to have our personal data, and even changes to the Free Legal Assistance Act. In this case, it's not enough that you're collecting personal information about anyone who comes for advice, but you still want information from the ministry about why he came, what problems he has. Big brother bows down. Communism like Orwell's. You want to know everything about us. [[Applause]] Jumping into money? For a lot of money. In the middle of the night, PiS sends an amendment which will lose its position within 14 days of the adoption of this law. Moreover, it introduces a second amendment whereby all processes: auctions, tenders which were launched at the Electronic Communications Office will be cancelled. One big reset, one big jackpot. You're not helping, you're not helping anyone. There's still no test rule. We're making an amendment. Testing, testing, and testing again for the medical department, for the people in the DPS. You can't do what you do, that when there were problems in the DPS, people started getting sick and dying, instead of doing tests instead of treating them, you took military ambulances, ambulances, and you moved these people to hospitals. Or what? 'Cause in the DPS, there's a tragedy, and that's how hospitals are gonna blur. The Ministry of Health will report: 28 people died today, 150 sick, what is it? That's your approach. Cynic. It's all about the election and the money. We have to free trade on Sundays. And that's the amendment we make. You have to give to Poles their money, money in split payment, VAT money that lies in your government accounts, [[Applause]] and are owned by Polish entrepreneurs. In a situation of economic crisis, this must be released. Polish entrepreneurs must have money to pay their wages. We're deleting the Teacher's Charter rule. This is an outrage, this is an incredible scandal. You're restricting the teacher's rights to a full house. Moreover, I would even say that you are making the Minister of Education of the dictator, because this is thanks to the rules you want to introduce, he can repeal the laws by his regulations. It's unacceptable, isn't it? The minister will do whatever he wants, there will be no one over him, there will be no law, there will be (the bell) of the Prime Minister, there will be no Seym. This project is one big scandal, your money heist and your election. This project is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u12	Thank you kindly. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I invite you to speak to Mrs Monica Falej from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say hello to the Prime Minister, but he's not here, so fine. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. When we debated the 1.0 shield, we believed that you wanted to help, you wanted to save the Polish economy, protect people from redundancies, bankruptcy of companies. Your actions were chaotic and inept, but we believed that thanks to the substantive amendments of the opposition, work in the Senate would be able to create a solid shield from this screen. You rejected it. Your arrogance has caused Poles and Poles to have a substitute for help. You can also see it in protests. Today, you're presenting a 3.0 shield. We'll probably have a 4.0 shield, a 5.0 shield, and as many shields as you need to do your business. You're preparing hell. A week ago you tried to create a hell of women, today you're using the epidemic for your own interests, party needs. I'm going to summarize briefly the real help you were going to give to the Poles and Poles. People were hoping for relief, financial aid, job protection, security in such a difficult situation. What do they get? In other words, what do you give yourselves? Because this is your wish concert. For example, more access to our data. Why, why, it's hard to say. Probably only the ruling party knows that. Possibility of surveillance by full access to information about who is asking for legal help and for what. This was supposed to be a tool for residents and residents who are in difficulty, which was supposed to be legal aid, which would give them the opportunity to use such services. And now everyone will know everything that's going on with these people. Minister Ziobro will be able to extend the term of office of his people at the National Prosecutors' Council. There will be a full control of the election of the President of the Office of Electronic Control. Suddenly you will need to change this person and it will suddenly turn out that after 14 days all proceedings will be simply canceled and re-written, but - what is important - according to the new rules when it comes to public procurement, which is how someone will need it, so it will be done. And this new president will also have full power over the Internet and they're calling every single one of us. We're in danger of privatising the railroad. You'll be even more unpunished when it comes to these public procurements. You'll take care of the SKOKs again. You will also change the Teacher's Charter with impunity and regulations. They're gonna lose their young teachers, they're gonna have a problem with their teaching career. And what is not acceptable at all: the law will be amended by regulations. There's no explanation for the epidemic. It can be done differently. Replace I could have been here a long time. This is your help. It's unbelievable that you can do that, under the cover of the night, of course. This document is over 200 pages and you had to respond to it within a few hours - to dozens of laws that you are trying to change. No words. Of course, history will judge you, but until then you want to do a lot of damage to people. Of course, we will not allow you to do this and we will continue to make amendments here. I'm gonna make these adjustments on behalf of the club. Enough of your impunity. On behalf of the Left, I am making further adjustments to the hands of the Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u14	Thank you, madam. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the question is what the third shield means, because I do not know if we are aware of what we are doing in this third shield, because we are certainly not helping Poles and Poles. We amend this: Civil Code, Cooperative Law, Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees, Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities, Criminal Code, Professional Rehabilitation Act, General Court Law, Road Transport Act, Rail Transport Act, Telecommunications Law, Subscription Charges Act, Cinematography Act, Social Cooperatives Act, Aid to people entitled to maintenance, Personal Evidence, Strategic Reserves, Waste Management, Waste Packaging Management, Waste Electrical Equipment (Dzwonek) and Electronics. The question is, what are we doing? I haven't listed all the laws, Mr President, because there are about 40 of them in total. The question is whether this is really an anti-crisis shield or a law order by the law and justice government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u16	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The expectations of the third version of the anti-crisis shield were really higher than what the government presented to us. The main point is that really on the basis of the first version of the anti-crisis shield, the second version of the anti-crisis shield, but above all on the basis of the conclusions of Polish entrepreneurs it was possible to create better proposals. In my opinion, it's not a 3.0 shield, but rather a drama in three files when you look at it. Really, an entrepreneur who has a closed company for 7 weeks is waiting for completely different solutions, solutions that will allow him to continue to function, will allow him to maintain liquidity, so that he can keep a team of employees, and a number of other basic issues about which both in the first and in the second, and in the third shield have been forgotten. The Polish entrepreneur, who has a closed company, will not really be happy that the Government of Law and Justice introduced mechanisms in the anti-crisis shield to change the appointment of the President of UKE or the new mechanisms at the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. It's a pity to see such a work. Entrepreneurs expect clear, simple rules, equal to all, but above all trust in them, expressed, for example, if you are already dealing with administrative changes, in exchange for all tired statements. It would be an expression of confidence in the Polish entrepreneur. Polish businessman also needs the award of local companies. The Skandalem ended with a recent solemn welcome, a reception by the government of masks at the airport in Warsaw. The knitting industry, the light industry, spoke particularly strongly. All of these Polish producers asked why the government, knowing at the beginning that there are huge shortcomings in personal protective equipment, that there are no masks, and that jobs and trades are closed, did not immediately order Polish entrepreneurs to sew such personal protective equipment, masks. Only after deliveries from one country, from another country, did the polish sewing houses, which had already spoken for some time, come to mind. The agri-food industry is asking about similar matters, especially the poultry and vegetable sectors. Today I ask: Where is the national food holding company? Why is the national food holding not an important element of the crisis shield? That's what people in the countryside are asking today, farmers are asking, that's what processing and the agri-food industry are asking. The third version of the crisis shield exposes the government's helplessness. Here, at first glance, you can see that you have no idea. You force some provisions on qualified signature, on deadlines for submitting information to BDO, on changes in the termination of subscription contracts, on the mechanisms for appointment of the already mentioned President of UKE. I mean, it's really sad to see that. All this is needed by entrepreneurs like a fish towel. You have practically not proposed anything to the local government, which in fact is very much supporting the government in implementing various types of regulation during the crisis of the pandemic of Coronavirus. I know that many proposals are being made to the government, to us, to the opposition Members too, among others. big support in terms of investment funds that would give oxygen to our local, local entrepreneurs in particular, so that there is a prospect for everyone to know that after the spring and summer months there will also be orders, there will be invitations to tender, which in fact stood today. Entrepreneurs also send requests to the government to release them this year, for example, from covering their losses for the previous financial year in hospitals. After all, this is a huge burden, especially for smaller district governments. The government could make a gesture like that. Why isn't it in the third installment of an anti-crisis shield, I don't know. That is why our Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 proposes a number of specifics, which I will report as amendments in a moment. Firstly, the creation of a liquidity fund, which will guarantee the stability and financial liquidity of Polish entrepreneurs. Second, farmers. If you have finally given in to our demands to support this group of entrepreneurs, why are you so stingy with them? If a farmer is hospitalized or is in quarantine (the bell), you offer him only half of the lowest national one. We propose that it be at least a full stake. We also offer hero bonuses. You forgot about the medics again. We offer a supplement to the salary of PLN 1500 - for all who work in hospitals, DPSs, for social workers. We also propose to increase all income and income thresholds. Mr President, last sentence, please. Last sentence, Marshal. Please increase the thresholds at which you can apply for assistance. We would like it to be increased from 7 to 10,000, but we also want to delete unnecessary rules. We want, among other things. This and we ask you to delete the article. 4, in which it interferes with the right to decide on the allocation of own contributions, for example in the ZŁ. I present all these amendments to the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u18	Thank you very much. You're overreacting, but we forgive you in the morning. Thank you, sir. I cordially invite Mr Michał Urbaniak from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about shield 3.0, about a project that's so important from the government's point of view, and there's no prime minister or warden with us. Apparently, they're not interested. I'm basically going to refer to one particular thing that the 3.0 target is moving. Reading this project, once again, we find facilitations for economic immigrants. In previous shields, the PiS government introduced automatic extension of work permits for foreigners. This project, on the other hand, provides for the extension of these work permits, i.e. if the working conditions of the foreigner have changed, there is no need to change the work permit. If, for example, The foreigner worked as a physical worker, and now he can work as a driver. Meanwhile, the situation in Poland has changed dramatically. We are no longer 2019, only the pandemic time, which has completely changed the situation on the labour market. Real unemployment rates can reach up to 10% What the newspapers are writing about today. You assured us - I am speaking here to the government - that this situation will be at the end of the year, and we already have it in April. Comparing this situation to what is happening in other countries, we can assume that at the end of the year there can be even 2 if not 3 million unemployed. How are you gonna handle this? The conclusion is that Law and Justice are more concerned about the existence of foreigners employed in Poland. It does not show due diligence in the fight for employment of Poles living here, as well as tens of thousands of cross-border workers who protest at the border in Słubice, in Gubin. Sailors also have problems. Once again, in response to their calls to normal life, they received only vague announcements without coverage. This is no way to treat Poles. Times have changed, and the government ignores it. The government of the Republic of Poland, as the name itself indicates, should take first care of Poles and Polish workers. We can't see that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u20	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Wheel of the Confederation of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There it is. There it is. There it is. You didn't have to wait long for my previous prophecy to materialize - the fact that the 2.0 shield isn't the last word in this case yet. It's probably not over, either. I suggest to citizens that they order a subscription: a two-week period at your home thanks to the Polish Post Office. I think there's a chance by the end of the year we can chase Windows out of numbering. [[Applause]] I have the impression that the main symptom of Coronavirus is the failure of the Sejm to maintain its statutes. 'Cause the sphincter's really out. It's all over the place. I'm afraid even when the world forgets about the epidemic, we will continue to release updates, versions, patches. Understand that legal stability is a value in itself. [[Applause]] Sit down, write it once, and write it properly. But what are we here for? We don't have one? We're digging up dozens of bills again. There is even such a legislative time machine, because some provisions of the third shield will enter into force even before the first one is passed. We remember them more at the moment, they have already entered into force, we remember them, we adopt them only so that there is no time paradox. People, you're just gonna get lost in this, let alone citizens. There are also, as always, some sensible solutions. Yeah, but it's okay. Some kind of work accident happens to the best of us, for example. Finally, with the third approach, you have changed what we have already proposed in the first one - the idea is to change the income criterion, which excluded small traders working on a small margin. So? Couldn't it have been right away? No, we couldn't. [[Applause]] From version to version, in subsequent shields you try to pretend that all this has to do with the virus. I think Vista's expected shield will be here by now. She introduced an additional verse of the anthem about the great Jaroslaw, and you will continue to claim that it is about combating the effects of the epidemic. These are just not matching puzzles with different sets, but at most a dirty description with different ideas. You can see that everyone in the government comes in there, writes what he remembers, and no one can control it, the whole thing. Above all, however, the whole discussion is simply unnecessary. Let's stop pretending that the Sejm here makes the law that there are key decisions here. In times of crisis, the façade of this institution became even more visible. You're not trying to save this mock-up anymore. You don't have time for this. You threw us a project the day before yesterday to change dozens of laws. You're counting on us to vote him out today, so I don't think you're hoping we can help you really make sense of him. I feel like it's even unwelcome at times. The Sejm is only used to make the responsibility for the rules anonymously edited in ministries smear up to 460 people, [[Applause]] To spread the responsibility so you don't know who to tear your head off, how it's all gonna fall apart. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We wash our hands of it. You can't work like that. We leave a handful of friendly advice in the form of amendments, without the greater hope that you will want to benefit. And I'm off the hook, it's gonna fuck up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u22	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. I invite Mr Mark Owl from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This cover program bill has absolutely nothing to do with it. But once again, you are cleaning out the drawers in which some legislative proposals were prepared, and now it is just very convenient for you to introduce all these solutions. By the way, you fought to limit the Senate's powers because you want to eliminate him from participating in the election of the head of the URE. What do you have for entrepreneurs? For entrepreneurs you have the current words of President Kaczyński from 2017: If someone is not able to conduct business under such conditions, it means that they are simply not suitable for it. These words of President Kaczyński to you are simply an interpretation, as we know, and a source of law. The President's words are most important, and that is why you have not prepared anything for employers in this proposal. Why Mr President [[♪ The bell ♪]] didn't he mention the amount of the package? This package amounts to 0.1 of GDP. It's just a shame and completely irrelevant, no change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u24	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Of course, there's a lot in this bill about staff competitions between different piS curias, there's more powers to surveillance, access to spending millions of zlotys without tenders, and a lot of other things that are really solving internal... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Mr President, you are disturbing your own Member. Mr. Mark, you're welcome, aren't you? Thank you. There you go. Thank you very much, Marshal. There are many things in this bill that have absolutely nothing to do with economic aid, but solve the problems of PiS. But what's not here? Firstly, opening borders for those who work abroad - that is not there. There's no accelerated... There's nothing about the VAT refund, and what's more, the tax offices are doing everything they can not return it. There is nothing about the safe opening of small service establishments that could quietly, while maintaining adequate safety rules (the Bell), provide these services. There's nothing about the release of trade on Sundays. There's nothing about government support. So I ask and ask the government to answer: What is the real reason for referring this resolution to the Sejm if it does not help entrepreneurs and employees at all? And secondly, what is the real value of the two laws that bring something in there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u26	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This shield is holes like a sieve. It does not say that many entrepreneurs have been excluded from it and cannot receive a parking benefit. There is no mention of how you will support cross-border workers who are in a very difficult situation today. But there are solutions that have nothing to do with the crisis. I mean, you guys want to, like... revoke the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. If that's the reason, if this is your way of fighting the crisis, then I think you should be thanked for it, because it's not gonna work. The European rules contained in the European Communications Code make it clear that this body is an independent body. But I have the impression that you guys canceling the president before the end of your term of office just want to put your hands on the telecommunications market. Under the cover of the night, you make further adjustments, which, unfortunately, are not even well justified by you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So in one sack undercover and under the slogan of fighting the crisis, you're throwing in topics that are completely unrelated to the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u28	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Nowacka from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u29	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Standing in the back, Minister! You have a chance to make it better. The fact that it's cabbage pea, not a shield, we already know. But a few more things can be improved. First of all, why don't you put in health care tests for DPS employees? It's just human and moral. Secondly, why don't you take good solutions for... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, miss, I'll extend your time. Ministers, hello, here are some questions for you. Why don't you listen? Please, kindly and politely, very much so... [[Applause]] I think I just... It's a request, no malice. Okay? You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger. Thank you very much, Marshal, that someone in the Seym still cares that this is a parliament, not a piS jury. [[Applause]] Why don't you put in the rules to help the poorest, today excluded children, at risk of poverty, maintenance poverty, children of independent parents? We propose and make an amendment, as the ministers would like to be interested, to abolish the income criterion in the maintenance process. Thirdly, why do you not want to clearly support DPS employees? They're at the front of the war today. It is good that you help the soldiers (the bell), but also help the DPS employees, giving them similar wages, giving them a chance to compensate, as well as testing them. And finally, what do entrepreneurs say today? They're looking at you as a zoo because you guys are doing your little business, and they're writing me an entrepreneur from Podkarpacie like this: income - 0 zł. About an hour. 18 yesterday, information came out that you can apply for applications. First come, first served. It is not shown how to fill out the application. The system isn't working. The municipality does not exempt from taxes, does not exempt from perpetual lease fees. Everything with the ZUS will fall on their heads in June. We're gonna have to fire dozens of people. What do you want to do? You're just trying to make it easier to throw people out on the street. This is not help for entrepreneurs, nor for workers, nor for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland. Get your shit together. You can really do a few more good things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u30	Thank you very much. I kindly invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u31	God's blessings - after all - Mr. Marshal! By the way, I would like to inform you that the transmission from our deliberations stopped at the moment when you gave a salvific reminder to the Members and Ministers of the PiS. Coincidence? I don't think so. Ha, ha, ha! We're in constant trouble here with communications. In this law about changing everything, you just don't know what you're doing, you're changing 50 sets, plus a minus. Let me repeat: 50 sets you change in such a mode that the human eye has not seen here, and the language will not describe. But the D.A. will describe it. In this act: communication and data. Sensitive data is, it seems, someone's horse, a point of honor. And the question is: What is the real agenda of the government? What are you really getting at? The point is that what is verbally declared, propagandaly (the bell), that's, I'll say politely, always problematic. However, you are undoubtedly building a system of deeper, wider surveillance and control. You put an electronic leash on the Poles' neck. Do you consciously do this, or do you, like the unfortunate Mr President, rapporteur Kowalczyk, I understand, feel that you are here as a banner of monopolists when it comes to patriotism? Perhaps you do not know what you are doing. Mr... Then find out. Thank you, Marshal, for your kindness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u32	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u33	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What's important? The important thing is that the Civic Coalition is proposing an amendment to Shield 3. This amendment will consist in introducing mandatory tests for medical staff, but also for those employed in permanent care facilities: in social services homes, in care and medical facilities, in private units. It's all about protecting seniors. It's not just 80,000. Seniors in nursing homes. We're talking 200,000. the people who are there. It's also about hospice and palliative medicine. You can't open up the economy, you can't loosen the sharpening when you don't provide tests. After all, the staff of these facilities will go from Monday to the gallery, go to the library, escort the children to kindergarten and daycare. The tests are the only guarantee that the virus will not appear in senior care facilities. We're calling for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Accept this amendment for Polish seniors. They need to be taken care of. All of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u34	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Ionski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u35	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to benefit from the Minister's presence, I would first like to speak on behalf of all those who wish to use shields 1 and 2 and appeal. Minister! Many have applied for parking benefits. They've been waiting about two or three weeks. The Social Insurance Institution is absolutely unable to consider this number of applications. These people are asking when the funds will be paid. The second question concerns a non-refundable loan of 5 000. zł. There are several thousand applications in some work offices. The offices aren't prepared right now, and these forms you've prepared, and this way of analysis, these people are waiting for financial resources for up to a month. And finally, it's the most important thing. You give the latest statistics: unemployment has fallen, month to month, from 5.5% Up to 5.3%. Meanwhile, one of yesterday's newspapers says we're almost 900,000. unemployment and close to 10% unemployment. I would like to call on the government (the bell) to take seriously the draft and amendment of the Civic Coalition. It is about the amendment to increase unemployment benefits to the amount of PLN 1800. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u36	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u37	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! This shield is a fictional shield. The state has announced a noisy 100 billion PLN for the economy, while the 100 billion is outside the regulation of this shield. Entrepreneurs are waiting for clear criteria and do not know them. I have some basic information for you, which is already being discussed by the Seym Cougars. Is it true that the Polish carrier LOT is on the verge of bankruptcy? Is it true that you are preparing to buy one of the airlines in order to transfer licenses and ensure smooth operation of the Polish important carrier? What happened to this huge financial result of LOT, which, as we hear, is today on the verge of bankruptcy, without financial resources? We know that it is not possible to recapitalisation it because the external rules do not allow it. What are you going to do with LOT and are you doing (the bell) on this? That's a fundamental question about this, because this case hasn't been included in Shield 3. I'm asking for an urgent response on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u38	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Urbaniak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I don't think Jesus Mary can help you. The left can help. If you've forgotten the contents of the question, maybe you'll be back in three minutes. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for your attention. I realize that Jesus and Mary will not help. I had a slightly different order written down, so you pulled me out a little bit to answer. But there's a lot of questions because this bill is just tragic, so there's a lot of questions. That's the basic question about the fact that this bill is a hit on the cash register, is how much on this operation you made in the middle of the night, the removal of the President of the Electronic Communications Office and this operation reset all the tenders that are at the Electronic Communications Office, does PiS want to make money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u40	Thank you very much, sir. I thought I'd help you and read the order. Mr Maciej Necessary, Mrs Hanna Gill-Piątek, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek and Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. It's to help you, because the Sejm should also be nice and polite. [[Applause]] I cordially invite Mr Maciej Necessary from the parliamentary club Left. Mr. Marshal, I think it's a matter of lack of a list that usually is. Yeah, but if there was a list here, our viewers would be looking at the list. Oh, no, she was on the sidelines. But, miss, I would not like to enter into this very important dispute for Poland. She's just not here. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You can't do that. You can't, I get it. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday I asked how the government was going to help the unemployed. I didn't get an answer. I think maybe I asked stupidly, maybe the government isn't going to help at all. Maybe that's exactly what it's all about, making unemployment mass and threatening poverty, starvation and eviction. Maybe that's exactly what it's all about, so the workers are scared, because then they can get screwed up. And as I was thinking, it all started to form a whole: longer hours of work, permission to reduce wages, ordering people to rest in the place indicated by the employer, some e-mail-releases - it all consists of one whole. It's not about helping people, it's about screwing people up. Therefore, there is no support for the unemployed, because then it will always be possible to say: work longer, work for less, work for a bowl of rice, and if not, this is 15 people in your place. Is that what this is about? Do you, like your idol Margaret Thatcher, want to just tighten the screw on the employees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it? Only the doctrine of shock, and the crisis is an opportunity for you to screw the screw on Poles and that's it? Thank you. [[Applause]] Don't insult Margaret Thatcher.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u42	Thank you very much, sir. I already know why there is no list - to Mrs Lubnauer I wanted to address - because when there is a remote transmission, there is no list. But I can do for you that if you speak, we can show you the list. No problem at all. Yeah. Good. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u43	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To really be nice and polite in the Seym, and even more often than sometimes, first of all, I thank all the committee members for their very substantive work, for having adopted two important amendments to the Left, [[Applause]] the one that stops the bailout for the entire duration of the epidemic and 90 days after it, and the one that allows the transfer of equipment from ARM to DPS. Unfortunately, the finance committee is now called the new night small seym, because there we are creating a new way of making law, which is that we are working on a ministerial circuit, which is presented to us as a bag of attractions, a bag of surprises - from seedlings to Pilecki - so it is really hard to get something substantial out of there and work on it. I'm glad it sort of worked out that night. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shield 4.0 will be a law on amending all laws that the government wants to change and changing all the people in this country that the government doesn't like. So I would like to point out, however, that we are heading towards how the shields are called: helping people by COVID to the victims, to whom they belong, for example. Right now, cultural animators, this is a subject that is intact, unemployed, and that we should remove this disgraceful record destroying the Teacher's Charter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u44	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski from the parliamentary club, as I recall, the Left. All the time. Marshal without a list.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we look at the shield we're testing, it's clear that one group is being avoided, ignored and forgotten in this shield. This is a group of employees. We as the Left have tabled an amendment to show how much the fate of people who are losing their jobs today, but also entrepreneurs who are shutting down businesses, is important to us. Crisis witnessing, this supplement for all who today have a problem, who have nothing to live for, whose families are poor, such money, 2600 PLN, should receive. Some will say: much, others: not enough, but this 2600 PLN is the minimum that allows all those who have lost their wages, which the government does not help. I address the Minister and the Prime Minister: complete this shield with 2600 zlotys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a chance that we'll all be able to look people who are losing their jobs in the eye. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u46	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. And next, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, I would like to remind you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As we've established, shield 3.0 is called. Peas with cabbage, that is, various things were thrown in in different areas and under the pretext of the epidemic it was considered necessary to amend different provisions Some of these provisions may have some justification, as we have established, perhaps one piece of paper, the rest has none. For me, the rule of the article is completely incomprehensible. 50, which says that the functioning of the Teacher's Charter should be suspended during the epidemic. I don't understand how. changes in the promotion of teachers are expected to affect the fight against the plague. How does weakening the position of teachers, their safety, make everyone as citizens feel more secure in times of uncertainty? That is why, as the Civic Coalition Club, we have tabled an amendment to delete this article. We were not given any serious reason why the promotion of teachers should in any way be affected by the epidemic. You should not hit (the bell) citizens at a time when citizens are still very anxious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u48	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Poles are curious and ask who is responsible for the fight against the economic crisis in the government. While it is clear that Minister Szumowski is primarily responsible for the fight against the epidemic crisis, this responsibility is dispersed here. The question is who's responsible. Poles ask why the next shields do not provide the means for those who fight the coronavirus on the first line, bearing the victim of health and life. That's not enough, in this shield, you take those who are on the front line, which is overtime for the cops. What about a voluntary ZUS, a solution that would be asked to be introduced? I would very much ask you to answer these questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland's economy is really in a big crisis, it can be seen, for example, from the number of people affected by unemployment or from the statistics of companies who have applied for the suspension of activities. Here, as on the hand, you can see that the so-called. First and second shields helped these companies like incense to a dead person. Therefore, it is worth asking about factual solutions for Polish entrepreneurs. When will a good idea be introduced permanently, which is recommended by the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, or voluntary ZUS? What solutions will be put in place systemically for the protection of industries that are most at risk, such as the light, virgin and poultry industries? What will be the systemic measures taken to protect this market from collapse on these issues? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u52	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. And he is thinking of the speech by Franciszek Sterczewski. On this, ladies and gentlemen, we would have exhausted the questions. If any of you and your fellow Members still wish to come forward, please. Mr President, the speaker is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we have in this law more than 40 laws, which we want to change by this one law. That's why I have very simple questions. What is the connection with the protection of jobs and the fight against the crisis, for example, is the issue of changes to the Solidarity and Fortitude Act. Witold Pilecki? How does the amendment of the Łukasiewicz Research Network Act have to do with the crisis? What does the Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment have to do with the crisis? What does the Package Management Act have to do with the crisis? What does the seed bill have to do with the crisis? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are we even doing this in this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, I cordially invite you, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since the beginning of the crisis, about 60,000. companies have announced a state of suspension, we already have about 1 million unemployed at this moment. Doctors are still waiting for tests. Instead of information about the virus, we have informational chaos. We don't know why we're opening galleries, and we still don't know when restaurants, cafes and other small services will be running. Why are teachers' rights restricted instead of helping entrepreneurs, workers, workers and many unemployed people, and we are dealing with 50 other laws that are not the most important at this point? Ladies and gentlemen! We've been facing the biggest crisis in about 100 years. Shields No. 1, No. 2, No. 3 are empty PR for the presidential election, not for (the bell) real help for Poles and Poles. So when are you gonna start taking this crisis seriously and not campaigning? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u56	Thank you very much, sir. I invite the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Łukasz Schreiber to respond, speak and everything you consider to be used to say, Minister. We're here, Minister. You have five minutes. Minister, you have five minutes, whether you will be, or any other Minister, we congratulate you on your decision. You're taking off. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that, when you make these statements, you are not counting on any discussion, you are not counting on any answers. Rather, it was a show - more or less successful, let's leave it rhetorical. And that's all it really is. I have the impression that some people are asking questions or trying to ask questions, limited only to the number of pages, even counting the reasons with the regulations. The justification is indeed quite extensive, but it is precisely to clarify all the rules. It does not contain new regulations. That's what I've been explaining all along. After all, in this mode in which we work, which does not result from this, we are not able to carry out 15, 20 or 40 laws at this moment. Some small things are being done, there are extended deadlines for citizens to make various kinds of statements, for entrepreneurs. Someone mentioned the names of the laws and somebody said it had nothing to do with it. Yeah, it does. These are probably minor in some cases, but important changes or facilitations. Yesterday, when I presented this project, I presented the 10 most important changes for citizens and entrepreneurs. Even the issue of anti-Liquidity records, which, as some of you have claimed, have nothing to do with the current situation, has been criticised and fought very strongly. You're saying these things have nothing to do with it, and there are questions about it. Pilecki Institutes. Only yesterday we explained extensively in the committee what relationships they have, that e.g. The branch of the institute in Berlin has a problem with the pandemic of Coronavirus in order to function effectively. Of course, with bad will, or if you're not interested in working on the committee, just to get out and say something, you can approach it that way. High Izbo! And the idea of PLN 2,600 for all unemployed people is really an idea and an incentive - I understand - to have employers fire people from work? If you're unemployed and have a minimum wage, that's the only incentive. No, we want to save jobs. This 100 billion PLN for companies, this financial shield that enters, is the thing that is supposed to save Polish companies, to give subsidies, to die loans up to 75% and to ensure a link to job protection. This is our goal, not to encourage employers to fire people. Well, that's actually a completely different philosophy from ours. If I could ask the Minister to settle his doubts... It is worth answering the question that came up with regard to the Teacher's Charter. Indeed, it would be best for the Minister of National Education to fall. I'd really ask for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u58	Thank you, Minister. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of National Education of Minister Maciej Kopcia. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This issue, of course, was discussed in the committee yesterday and it is worth noting that this provision in the section that concerns the Teacher Charter, especially with regard to the first part, i.e. promotion of the profession, is in the interest of teachers. It is clear from this article - by mistake or intentionally, some Members did not notice this yesterday - that this year, and not in this regard concerning promotion... This catalogue is therefore simply closed, limited to two cases: promotion... Then read the recipe, especially... No, sir. It is closed, limited to two issues, i.e. promotion and holiday issues. This simply applies to matters relating to the Article. Article 9b (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The third one that talks about promotion dates. It's about getting this promotion done this year and getting teachers to get a raise. And that's it, that's it. Yeah, yeah. On the other hand, the shift in exams causes that additional exams will simply take place during the holidays, and this also applies to the period of recruitment. Notwithstanding Article. 64, which is talking about 7 days that can be used to carry out other activities, can happen in such a situation that you will also need to use part of the leave of teachers for the benefit of children, in the event that the situation in a school actually takes place.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u60	Thank you, Minister. I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! A few words to fill in. Of course, I would like to add my thanks to Hanna Gill-Friday on the committee work. Indeed, the work was very long, I do not hide, but very substantive and whoever wanted to participate in it could do so in an excellent way. But there was one thing I wanted to say. These were the words: the project is just a jump to the money and a jump to the election. The proposal, Mr President, does not speak about elections, does not touch this absolutely, so let us not talk about something that is not in this project. Maybe there was something in the others, but that's not what it is. So the point is that we're in the truth phase. The second thing is personal information, we're going to keep an eye on it. There is such personal data in the ZUS, I said in the report, and at the moment there is only the transfer of this data to the electronic form. That's the only difference, I think it's entirely justified in the present time. Another thing. There's been an accusation that we're going to privatize the railroad. Ladies and gentlemen, this privatisation has already been very intense in various times, but the possibility of funding PLK, by God, is not a privatisation, even the opposite, by strengthening PLK in this respect. It was ironised about further provisions of the Act - which has a common law on BDO, on waste, on electronic equipment. Yeah, it does, because entrepreneurs, among others. they have a duty to register fully in the BDO by the end of June, the opinions of the reports, which are sanctioned by specific financial penalties, very serious, and at the present time this is difficult to implement. Thus, the transfer of these terms in these laws is a direct link and facilitates the life of entrepreneurs. This is the coronavirus connection. There is actually very little to do with these laws, but it is extremely important to shift time limits that free from potential criminal sanctions. When it comes to concern for Polish workers, of course verbally... There is much to be said, but I will remind you, there is also the funding of jobs, and the loan, said the Minister, in a large majority of the deadly, and the parking. I have excellent field experience. The entrepreneur who wants help at this point writes the application and after a few days has money in his account. Let's see how it works down there, how it works really, before we start criticizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u62	Thank you, sir. I was just wondering for a moment what kind of land you're from, because we don't have such good experience in my territory. I'll tell the entrepreneurs to move to your territory. [[Applause]] There you go. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much for this point to the Members. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time for answering additional questions, which will probably happen due to good humor and good atmosphere. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with a question from Andrzej Gawron, Krzysztof Kubow, Teresa Wargocka and Barbara Dziuk of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the number of tests performed for the presence of Cortipinus. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski. I cordially invite Mr Andrzej Gawron. As far as I know, it'll be a virtual question. Oh, hello, sir. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u63	Welcome, Mr. Marshal. Hello, Minister. I ask a question virtually from my parliamentary office, from Lublin, from the Lublin district, where we are very much, perhaps even on the scale of the country, you can say, affected by the disease of COVID-19. Seventy-seven thousand. The population is positive for 263 people and 25 deaths. From the area, I can see how important the number of tests that are being carried out, how important are the number of laboratories that are doing the tests in this direction, and how important is the speed of these tests. It is good that thanks to these actions, which were preventively applied in Poland, we managed to reduce, flatten this disease curve, that is very good action. We're defrosting the economy now, relaxing the restrictions. In my opinion, all the more so now, at this time, the amount of these tests, the speed of conducting them, the mass are very important. I have a question for the Minister to say for this day, at this moment, how it is with the availability of tests, how many of these tests are carried out, how many laboratories are working at the moment performing tests for the presence of coritos, but also how a system has been developed to make swabs, because this is probably a slightly weaker point throughout the system. I would also ask for such actions, whether the Ministry provides for further action in this area, to increase the number of laboratories or other means of swabging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u64	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u65	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for this question, because indeed the subject of the tests, the number of tests, has been the subject that you are interested in for a few weeks now, we see this after the number of interpellations and queries, we are particularly interested in, because indeed monitoring the number of tests and activities carried out today increasing the efficiency of the laboratory network This is an important task that has recently been faced by the Ministry of Health. It may be worthwhile to systematize the subject of tests very briefly at the beginning. Because we are talking about tests quite commonly, but when we think about tests, we have to bear in mind that we have different types of tests, which are used for different types of activities or used at different times. These tests, which we are talking about quite commonly, the number of which we report, are genetic tests, tests, which are today the only recognized and confirmed method of detecting coronavirus. But in addition to genetic testing, we still have the ability to run antigen tests. That's so-called. quick tests, also quite loud lately about these quick tests was. It's a test that actually detects if a person is infected. They do it in a fast way. The waiting time for the result is actually between 15 minutes and an hour. But they're not as sensitive and they're not as accurate as the genetic tests we're reporting. These rapid tests I am talking about are currently subject to validation, verification and passed through the first screen at the National Institute of Public Health - the National Hygiene Institute. Today, these tests are verified in several hospitals in Poland so that, in fact, before they, speaking colloquially, release to the units, they can be sure what sensitivity they have and in which clinical conditions they can be used. It is worth noting that these are tests that can actually speed up the trial of the patient in the SORs. Quick antigen tests, if they pass this verification, we would like to de facto direct there, so that the actual suspect patient who enters the hospital, especially hospital emergency services, can be verified quickly and, in the event of a positive result, subject him to a genetic test that will confirm it. We're also talking quite loudly about immunoassays. Some countries are already quite massively starting testing with immunoassays. These are tests, which in some ways do not detect the virus unambiguously, but they detect antibodies, which in some ways illustrate whether a person is going through a rather advanced degree of coronavirus at the moment, or already has antibodies, which in some ways acquired immunity. These are tests that we will gradually implement. On the other hand, experts today believe that, at this point in time, the epidemic we are at is too early for widespread and massive testing. I'm going to go to something that's probably going to answer a lot of questions about a test strategy. In the first week of May we would like to announce this strategy as the Ministry of Health: show step by step who, which groups we want to test in the near future. We are, of course, working on this together with experts, with a team of experts at the Minister of Health, with experts from the Ministry of Health. Epidemiology. I hope that the beginning of May will indeed be the moment when we can discuss and make this document public. Going back maybe in more detail to the question - because I see that I am running out of time, although I thought I had it more - the network so-called. The COVID laboratories are today 100 entities, according to the current ministerial list. We're still increasing the number of labs that do these tests. Another 11 applications are currently subject to expert assessment of the team that we have established at the Ministry of Health, at the Minister of Health. It's a team of experts who actually makes a recommendation on whether or not to put the lab data on this list. The verification procedure, of course formal, is relatively simplified for the times we are in. We know there's no control, there's no team of visitors going there. We cannot afford this today, but certain formal criteria are, of course, verified. Such a laboratory, which is included in the list, is also practically subject to verification and validation at the National Institute of Public Health. It must send a pre-defined number of samples to be tested and then periodically send these samples. In Poland about 340 thousand have been realized so far. tests. The question here was specifically about the Śląskie voivodship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Over 27,000 were made there. tests. Today, the efficiency of the laboratory network, i.e. these hundred, is about 20 and 25 thousand. daily tests. That's more than we do every day, because today the number of tests commissioned is at 12.14 thousand. Today, I guess, according to yesterday's figures, this figure is about 15,000. tests. Well, you could say that security for the tests is pretty good. So far, we've spent over 0.5 million tests on labs. The labs are also getting tests... Minister, unfortunately, your time is nearing its end, but I have good information for you... Mr. Marshal, as if I were 30 seconds...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u66	But listen to me. There will be an extra question, and then you have three minutes again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u67	I'm gonna take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u68	Very good. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u69	May I speak now? Yes, please, we're looking forward to it. Thank you, Marshal. I, too, look forward to the task of an additional question. Minister, thank you for the detailed information. I'd like to say something more about Silesia. As far as I know, there was only one lab at first, and then this sum went up to five labs. There was also a problem with the lab in Zabrze, where tests were stopped for a while. We know that the Śląskie voivodship is probably second in order after the Mazowieckie voivodship when it comes to the scale of the disease. So that I would ask you to refer to this in terms of our territory. You said there were 11 requests for labs to do this kind of research. Do you have any information as to whether these are entities? Also from the Silesian Voivodeship? On the DPS issue, I would like to ask you something: Is there a plan for wider testing and workers, and people living in social services houses? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u70	Thank you very much. Minister, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u71	Thank you. I will try not to abuse your time and patience and fit in these 3 minutes. For some time, the laboratory performance in Silesia, in terms of inhabitants, may have been lower than in other parts of the country. It seems that today this topic is becoming obsolete. The declared performance of laboratories in Silesia today is over 2200 tests per day, i.e. de facto about 10% the total efficiency of the laboratory network. Among these 11 applications for an additional entry, two are true for the Silesian Voivodeship. In addition, this laboratory has not yet been requested by the health minister, the laboratory at the regional center of blood donation and blood treatment, which is preparing for this. I hope it's ready within the week. It's a lab that has very efficient equipment. Daily productivity will increase by 1 000. The maximum capacity of the regional blood center is 1 000. tests per day, so it already seems that this problem has actually been addressed in Silesia. The Member asked earlier about the swabs and the collection system. We have different channels today. Of course, the basis is the swabs taken from patients, especially those suspected of being infected in hospitals, single names and infectious hospitals, but also hospitals that operate in normal mode, and there are people suspected of being infected. It is worth noting that yesterday the Minister of Health sent a letter to all hospitals in Poland, an appeal actually, a reminder that when there are certain suspicions, doubts about the health status of medical personnel, these staff should be tested, as we encourage. The tests are refinanced, financed by the National Health Fund and, indeed, if the directors have doubts about the health status of the workers we need to take care of in an exceptional way at this point, they should be directed as far as possible to such tests. As for Zabrze - and this can be combined with a certain buckle - we are really fighting for efficiency, we are fighting for laboratories to be as many as possible, but at the same time we must fight for the highest standards of operation. In the case of this laboratory, however, despite the really difficult situation at that point concerning laboratory performance in Silesia, there were doubts, and there were a lot of positive samples. These doubts have been verified, a certain number of samples have been sent to the National Institute of Public Health and have been validated there. In fact, during this validation period, the laboratory was suspended, the inclusion of this laboratory on the ministerial list was suspended. The suspension of this laboratory was then withdrawn because the validation of the National Institute of Public Health was positive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u72	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to question two. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Barbara Nowacka, Urszula Augustyn, Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka and Krystyna Szumilas from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition wants to ask a question about students who do not participate in the process of remote education or use other forms of education since the closure of educational institutions, including special school pupils requiring special support, and on the organisation of the eighth grade exam and the Matura exam. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć will answer. I cordially invite Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was actually going to ask about the eighth grade exam and the high school exam, but we've had a completely different educational situation since yesterday. Well, on April 24, the government announced that the kindergarten would be closed until May 25 and yesterday, 5 days later, announced that it would be open from May 6. I'll remind you of the epidemic situation. Well, on April 24, 343 new cases were reported, while yesterday - 422. Almost 200 people died within 5 days. What happened that suddenly the government changed its decision and surprised everyone, above all the heads of educational institutions and local government? What happened that the government didn't give local governments and directors time to prepare kindergartens, to decontaminate, to prepare security procedures? The government also failed to provide specific guidance on the number of children in preschool branches. He only said that the host body could reduce the number of children in the group, but did not state what the standards are, even though we know that the standards are precisely defined in shops or churches. The government has not provided guidance on whether there are masks, gloves, aprons in kindergartens. The seller in the store is obliged to provide such security and, in the case of kindergarten, it is said that the director is to make this equipment available if necessary. Security procedures have not been prepared, there are no guidelines for staff. There is also a question about providing staff in kindergartens, because teachers or employees (Bell) take care of children up to the age of 8 and there are employees who are more than 60 years old. And you have to do it all of a sudden, in two days, because I remind you: tomorrow is a long May weekend, and the facilities are supposed to be open from Wednesday. How do you organize all this? On Wednesday, parents will be disappointed who, despite the government's declaration, will not be able to escort their children to kindergarten just because the government has not given time to prepare these institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u74	Good morning. I'm sorry. Thank you. Good morning, of course. Minister, come in. I understand that Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer will ask an additional question, then, yes? Yeah, that's right. Because time has run out. I just saw him walk out the door. No, no. Yeah, yeah. The additional question will, of course, be as long as it takes, a minute. Yeah, that's right. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! As for yesterday, they were signed yesterday by the Minister of National Education by two regulations, under which the activities of kindergartens were restored. As we remember, the Minister's actions on this matter were first due to the limitation of the activities of schools and kindergartens in the first two days only to tasks, i.e. caring activities, and later the activity was limited. Schools and kindergartens have actually resumed their activities remotely since March 25. These actions were extended until 24 May. As far as schools are concerned, we are faced with a situation where the form of teaching activity adopted in previous regulations through remote learning is continued, while in the case of kindergartens this activity has been restored in its traditional form. Here, however, as in any case, safety is a key issue. In the Regulation of 29 April in § 4d the element has also been taken into account: for units of the educational system whose operation is not temporarily restricted, separate provisions concerning restrictions, orders and prohibitions and the occurrence of epidemics and, in the case of kindergartens and other forms of pre-school education and pre-school establishments in primary schools, also the guidelines of the Minister responsible for Health, the Chief Health Inspector and the Minister responsible for Education and Education shall apply. Thus, these issues are identified in this Regulation. At the same time, guidelines for kindergartens and preschools in primary school and other forms of preschool education were presented. Together with this decision, in agreement with the Minister for Health and the Chief Sanitary Inspector, such guidelines have been presented. It refers to how actions should be taken that relate to the Director's communication with his parents, as well as instructions for teachers and parents. These include manuals on hand washing, playgrounds and playgrounds, ordering work, i.e. disinfection of touch surfaces, procedures for handling infections, organisation of meetings with employees, as well as issues relating to employees over the age of 60. The point is not to involve these people in caring classes. The instructions also address the issue of avoiding the rotation of teachers, i.e. one teacher or the same group of teachers taking care of the group. There are also issues of preparation of rooms, personal protection, the availability of telephone numbers for the Director's use, e.g. The numbers to the school curator, to the sanitary and epidemiology station, to the medical services, to the attending body, so as to prepare communication with the parents. Issues are also raised as to how safe meals should be organised. The instruction also applies to teachers, it contains instructions on how to leave a given institution, and also a recommendation not to organize an exit from the premises. The instructions also address the issue of disinfection, the use of certain toys, paying attention to children washing their hands. There are also instructions for parents, so when to use masks, not to bring a child to a facility when he is ill or when a family member is in quarantine. The point is to remind you of the basic principles. As regards the decision to open kindergartens, this has been prepared and in a legal sense, and as regards guidelines for directors, for guidance bodies, for teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u76	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u77	Minister! I must say that, of course, we have not received answers to the basic questions on the guidelines on the number of children and on how to maintain the social distance for pre-school or nursery children. But I'm going to go back to the basic topic, the questions we were going to ask. I wanted to ask if the Ministry had the data, whether it knew the number of students with whom the school currently had no contact, with whom it was not possible to contact after closing schools and introducing remote education. This applies not only to typical schools, but also to other schools, especially special schools, where as many as 20% of students are simply unavailable, there is no contact with teachers. And second question. If it was decided so quickly to open nursery and kindergarten, although I do not know how it will be preserved there, as I said, this social distance, why was it not decided, in the face of the earlier decision on eighth grade exams, which are due from 16 to 18 June, to open schools just for eighth graders? The point is to use this time (the bell) to prepare them for eighth grade exams, because, as you know, they have already lost a lot in the field of such normal education. This applies especially to children excluded digitally. It's about this social difference, which is going to be particularly deep right now, and which is usually evened out by the school. Why didn't they open schools for these kids?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u78	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. Is there a Mrs Karolina Pavlichak in the courtroom? I'm here. Okay, okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! When we decide to restore the teaching activity of schools remotely from 25 March, we would like to point out that practically all countries in Europe have faced a similar dilemma. When we made this decision, we also tried to take into account all the conditions that stem from our education system and the technical capabilities that we have, i.e. on the one hand, the electronic journal equipment at 72%. schools on the national scale and the possibilities of the MEN e-handbook platform, as well as the technical possibilities that we had, and on the other hand, this took place taking into account the fact of the high autonomy of the school in Poland and the autonomy of the teacher, autonomy regarding the selection of the curriculum and the selection of the textbook. We tried to use this without imposing a uniform form, also using the technical capabilities that the school had here. From this point of view, we tried to monitor issues that concerned schools between 12 March and 20 March, i.e. when decisions were made to take further action, the curators monitored the situation as schools were prepared for such activities. At the same time, we tried to monitor how this activity would be undertaken. As a result of these activities curators, monitoring schools, received information that 100% schools have taken such measures, and at the same time have used... And here the directors pointed out that 13 753 schools conducted this activity primarily on the basis of an electronic journal, an e-handbook platform. The clues were 13,570. Over 17,000. schools also pointed to other means, i.e. technical, social media. In the case of special schools, their activities were not initially suspended, and most of them were suspended because, under the laws that allowed them to do so, their parents began to take their students away from there. Hence this activity was suspended on 6 April, but it is constantly monitored and we can also say that practically 100% remote actions have been undertaken there. As far as many other activities are concerned, including revalidation, this is practically 96%. Also, the instructions contained on the e-handbook platform or on the MEN website allowed these actions to be taken in an appropriate way towards these children. In the case of supervision, however, no rules have changed (the bell), i.e. we continue to supervise. In the case of compulsory education, the school obligation here has not changed, i.e. it is supervised by the school head in the case of compulsory schooling and the municipality in the case of activities which concern compulsory schooling. So there's no change here. Do you have data on the number of children who haven't made this contact? Please respond in writing. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u80	Don't yell in the Seym. Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! We just have a request that the Minister give us in writing whether they have data from the Ministry regarding the number of children who disappeared from the system during remote teaching.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u82	This form is completely different from the previous one. I don't have a microphone. Of course. I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Karolina Pavliczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It is a pity that you are not here because I have a very simple and very important question for you about the drought currently prevailing in our country today. Tell me clearly and clearly what you have done and have done to your ministry in order to reduce its effects. After all, I understand that you had predictions about the upcoming dramatic situation, because environmentalists have been alerting about it for at least a few months, and you have only been speaking beautifully about it for years, and that's where it ends. According to data from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Poland is currently among the countries with the lowest water resources in the European Union, and Minister Ardanowski says directly: It is up to us how much food will be on the Polish market. Every drop of water we don't have is what matters. It may also miss it for municipal purposes, to eat, to keep animals. And we could actually agree on that, only these are words again, and we need a specific strategy and a concrete plan to prevent the effects of drought in our country, because it will happen more and more often. The result of the lack of reaction from you is and will be a crazy cost for all agri-food products, and there will be further requests from farmers, and many of them - I will remind you - have not received support for last year. After the pandemic crisis, unfortunately, we will face an even greater environmental crisis which will have its effects in many areas of our country's socio-economic life, and you are dealing with elections instead of what is so drastically affecting our country and its citizens. On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to warn you and ask you urgently to address the issue of drought in our country, because the law on smoking grass alone is not enough. We need concrete and courageous decisions. I encourage you to do so, because otherwise the word "PiS" (The Bell) will be remembered as a shortcut from the words "pandemic" and "drying." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u84	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In view of the social concerns about the expected increases in bread prices, I would like to ask questions about the management of grain stocks. Does the government expect a significant increase in grain prices in the near future and, consequently, bread and other related products? What are the government's forecasts of the forthcoming drought and its impact on agricultural production and prices? Has the Material Reserve Agency made stocks adequate to these forecasts, and what steps is it going to take? According to data from the Ministry of Agriculture, in January 2020 Poland exported more than 300 thousand abroad. t wheat. That's six times more than a year ago. Polish wheat flows abroad due to high prices. According to the analyses available in March, it was another nearly 600 thousand. t against 200,000. from a year ago. Because of the drought of the century that threatens us, the government should be making grain stocks (the bell) rather than increasing exports. We can, of course, import grain from other countries of the European Union, but this is absurd, because we will pay more for it. Meanwhile, the threat of raises is really big. You're welcome, Minister, to take a stand on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u86	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek G grubarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This year is unprecedented in the context of, above all, hydrological and absolutely imminent drought. At the outset, however, it must be added that the fight against this drought through infrastructure is very difficult for a simple reason. In Poland, since the end of the war and even during the Second Polish Republic, only meliorative activities were carried out, no hydration, irrigation activities were carried out. Therefore, the whole process that is currently being developed is based on the infrastructure that was used for drainage. It is true that we were not surprised that this year there would be such a drought, mainly due to reduced rainfall, so we were preparing ourselves in several areas of action. The first is a short-term action that was launched last year. Since the beginning of this year, all water devices in the form of valves, flow devices or jazz have been raised to collect as much water as possible in the area of trough retention, i.e. all kinds of drainage ditches. On this occasion, a programme of 550 million was announced, where 150 million represent all kinds of modernizations and construction of new water capture devices to increase retention in Poland by around 1% over a period of 3 and 4 months. That's 40 million m3. The second is the medium-term action, which was also launched last year, is a programme for the development of retention. 94 large investments of more than PLN 10 billion are planned to increase retention from 6,5% up to 15%. The long-term action is the It is intended to increase the retention of up to 30% in Poland and is an extension of individual programs. The educational element is an important point of this programme. Above all, we are calling for water saving and rational management. In the area of inter-ministerial cooperation, a team of representatives of maritime and inland waterway ministers, agriculture, climate and environmental protection has been set up to ensure that solutions are comprehensive and that their task is primarily to reduce food production at the present time, i.e. to support agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u88	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u89	I'm sorry, Marshal, but that wasn't the answer to the question of what about the raises, what... Member, we still have... Then I'll ask you to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u90	Yes, in writing. We have a chance to get this answer, because Minister Ireneusz Nagroda and Minister Ryszard Kaminski will also speak. Perhaps then we will have an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of climate minister Michael Kurtyki, I would like to say that the drought issue is taken very seriously by us. On 16 July 2019 the Council of Ministers adopted the State's ecological policy by 2030. It's a strategy paper. It results from a number of individual documents prepared by individual ministries, including by the Ministry of Climate, but also by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Here, Minister Marek Grybarczyk and his team have prepared the assumptions for the "Programme against water scarcity" for the years 2021 to 2027, with a view to 2030. The value of the entire programme amounts to over PLN 10 billion. This is written down for specific projects. I have very little time, so I will focus on the activities of the Climate Ministry. On the other hand, the Ministry of Climate has prepared a programme to combat water scarcity for the period 2021 to 2027. It has also completed the project to develop adaptation plans for climate change in cities above 100,000. residents. These are the 44 largest cities in Poland. Together with these cities in the consultation that has been carried out, we have come up with concrete proposals for action. Following this, on 13 March, quite recently, the climate minister announced a competition, the call for proposals for local government units to build blue and green infrastructure in cities. The total value is 23,029 thousand. EUR, so close to PLN 100 million, with 85% support the eligible costs. Cities have the possibility to submit these applications by mid-June this year. By the way, I encourage all local authorities to take advantage of the application option. Further elements are also very important, such as the use of funds from the European Economic Area Financial Mechanism Fund, so-called. Norwegian funds, that is almost PLN 1.5 billion. In addition, there is a whole agenda: It's a city with a climate. On 4 March Minister Michał Kurtyka also launched a large programme in the context of a very broad regional consultation. Unfortunately, we have now been a little interrupted by this epidemic or by the outbreak of Coronavirus, but I would like to assure you that we are taking very intensive, extensive measures to prevent drought (the Bell) which will worsen. It is a long-term process, unfortunately, it turns out inevitable, as demonstrated by snowless winters and low rainfall during the summer period. This is the new situation that we are facing, but I want to assure you that your parliamentarians and the public that the actions that are being taken by the entire Council of Ministers, including the Ministry of Climate, are highly advanced in terms of specific programme threads, as well as specific budgetary values that will be devoted to the elimination and prevention of the effects of drought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u93	Mr. Marshal, in this situation, however, because I did not get an answer to my question about the expected increases in grain and bread prices, I ask you very much to answer this question in writing. You're welcome. For protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u94	Thank you very much, Member. There would be a chance for you to hear this reply if not for the fact that the time for government representatives on this issue has run out. Unless the Minister wishes to respond telegraphly to the question that she has presented to you, we would extend the time by 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Very fast. Ryszard Kaminski, Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Export of cereals in January and export in March. In January and February, farmers called for us not to allow grain from Ukraine into Poland. In 2018 and 2019 we had a record drought - unfortunately we expect an equally great drought this year - but somehow the prices of cereals and bread did not increase. It's more like the market movements, the turbulence that happened right after the outbreak. It must be made clear that even the data that you have quoted from March are not entirely adequate. I was also unfortunately infected in mid-March and it was no 350 in Poland. By mid-March, it was not known what the scale of the epidemic was. Therefore, I would like to reassure you that there was no shortage of grain for consumption purposes in 2018, 2019 and also this year there will be no shortage of this grain. Let's just hope we don't have -- the UOKiK is in control of this -- those speculative movements that were largely present at the beginning of the pandemic. That's it, marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u96	Thank you very much. If you are satisfied, you will not have to make a written reply. Now Members of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition Dariusz Klimczak and Jarosław Rzepa will ask a question about the deteriorating situation of workers and employers in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u97	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The economic situation of workers and employers is deteriorating overnight. The particularly difficult situation concerns micro-entrepreneurs who cannot count on reliable State aid. The Polish Economic Institute indicates that six out of ten companies recorded a decrease in revenues in mid-April and 11% companies report that they lack funds to survive a month, and in the most difficult situation are micro companies. Entrepreneurs report problems regarding insufficient exemption from social security contributions, the lack of remuneration subsidies for companies that have been deprived of business opportunities by the government. Therefore, please answer the following questions. Does the government intend to introduce the voluntary payment of social security contributions? Has the Ministry prepared a cover package for workers who will lose their jobs due to the epidemic? Does the government have estimates of how many people might lose their jobs due to the economic downturn? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u98	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to Minister Alina Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised by this question or the statement that has been made here concerning the lack of support for micro-entrepreneurs. I would even say that the micro-entrepreneurs are the group that receives the greatest support. I do not know if you have read the information on the instruments for micro-entrepreneurs, i.e. both micro-credits and support for job protection, funding for... Minister, you are asking a question on this matter, not the Minister. I would ask you not to review the Members' statements, but to answer them. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Alina Nowak: Yes, sir. I just... Mr Marshal, I understand, but I am astonished by this question from the Member, who will certainly monitor what is happening on the labour market on an ongoing basis. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards voluntary social security contributions, I would like to say that the idea of the social security system is to provide insurance cover in the form of cash benefits from the Social Insurance Fund for incapacity to work due to age, disability, sickness or maternity and survivor's pension in the event of the death of a spouse or parent in return for the paid insurance premium during his professional activity. Proposals to introduce voluntary coverage of non-agricultural social insurance activities raise doubts as to their validity and purpose. This solution will result in a lack of insurance protection for businesses and members of their families and employees themselves, thereby depriving them of their right to benefits, for example. sickness insurance, family pensions and invalidity pensions. The introduction of the epidemic that we are dealing with today illustrates the importance of insurance protection guaranteed by the payment of contributions. Today, both from the Labour Fund and from the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund, we are implementing these instruments which are, I think, the most important for all of us, i.e. investments in job protection. Both workers and business persons who are subject to sickness insurance in case of illness or need to be quarantined shall be covered by this insurance. Also those who cannot provide work due to the need for personal care... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Minister. Can I ask you to transfer the calls to the cocksuckers? Of course, Mr. Marshal. Excuse us. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Alina Nowak: Also persons who cannot provide work due to the need for personal care of children under the age of 8 due to the closure of institutions, crèches, schools, kindergartens, are provided with welfare benefits in connection with the subject of sickness insurance. The payment of short-term benefits to insured persons is precisely due to the payment of insurance premiums by these persons, in this case sickness insurance contributions, and as I said earlier, payment of benefits from the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is possible because we are subject to an insurance obligation. As regards the instruments, referring to the second question as to whether the Ministry has prepared a cover package for workers who will lose their jobs in connection with the epidemic, I would first like to emphasise how important it is for us to protect jobs and invest in jobs. As I said, a number of instruments are being implemented, which are essential in order not to lead to a rapid, avalanche increase in unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! Until three months ago, four months ago, we were the country in which the unemployment rate was the lowest, second in the order of the unemployment rate in the countries of the European Union. Today, this situation has changed. On the other hand, the government's actions are two-tracked. On the one hand, we focus on supporting and protecting jobs, and on the other hand we support those who have lost their jobs. According to the information available in the family ministry, because we are constantly monitoring the situation related to the registration of unemployed people, we are preparing whether measures have already been put in place that will contribute to the quick activation of those who may lose their jobs. Mr. Speaker! To answer the question about the expected rise in unemployment, I would like to say that according to the estimated maximum impact of the Coronavirus epidemic on unemployment recorded over the next 12 months, an increase of around 755 000 is expected. in relation to the pre-an outbreak scenario, including about 297 thousand. because of the decline, the drain to employment and about 458 thousand. as a result of an increase in inflow to the register, an increase in the number of unemployed people in total to 1540,000. people at the end of 2020 and about 1612 thousand people up to March 2021, rising unemployment rates to 9.2% at the end of 2020 and 9.6% until March 2021 Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, please, ask me to ask you a question... Excuse me, can I have the correction mode? Mr Dariusz Klimczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u101	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! I would very much ask for a written reply, because I think you have mistaken the micro-entrepreneur's aid for the micro-aid that your ministry is offering them. If you think it's so high, I would ask for a written reply so that I can pass it on to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u102	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the question of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Quickly on three topics. The first topic should be very close to the Minister - it is a matter of the business liquidity support fund. This is what the Polish People's Party and the Coalition of Poland brings. Minister! Employers are getting worse every day. Employers are protecting jobs today, but they won't be able to do it for long. I would like to know what actions the Ministry, specifically you have taken to ensure that this liquidity fund support will take place. Second question, specifically about unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, if unemployment in Poland has increased, how many people have been registered since the outbreak was declared. I would very much ask for this information in writing. Parents who take care of children under the age of 8 are entitled to welfare benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed that some people have not yet received these benefits. I'd really like to ask... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there any delays when it comes to paying ZUS? One last question. Minister, I know that Ostrów Wielkopolski lies very far from the border. Tomorrow there will be more protests at the Polish borders. It would be worth a ride there and hear what these people have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, this case must be unfreezed. These people want to go back to work, these kids want to go back to school, and the minister can't say we have to protect 15 million, and those people are margins. No, these people are also Poles and deserve the highest recognition for what they do and did for this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u104	Thank you very much. I now ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u105	Mr. Speaker! To answer your questions, from 1st to 28th April, 77,000 registered. the unemployed and the unemployment payout was 38 000. We are seeing a reduced unemployment payout due to the fact that people do not register because of taking up a job. However, we have not yet seen the avalanche growth of unemployed people. This is perhaps due to the fact that these people are still in the process of giving notice, but first of all, I think it is due to the fact that these actions, which are written in the shield, simply work. I don't know if you've traced all the aid granted to micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized companies. There is, for example, an instrument which is partly financed by the European Social Fund. Where the trader notes a decrease of 30, 50, 80% , may apply for funding, depending on the inheritance, by 50, 70 or 90% minimum wage for each worker, sir. I think if someone hires 100, 200 or 10 employees, it's huge support and help. Of course, an element for micro-entrepreneurs, for self-employed people are loans of up to 5 thousand. zł, which enjoy great interest among micro-entrepreneurs. There are also instruments of action under the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. There are instruments proposed by the Social Security Office. Mr. Speaker! If I were to mention all the instruments that were introduced within the shield, I think we would be running out of time. I do not know whether you are in contact with entrepreneurs. We are constantly communicating with organisations, employers' unions and we have information: yes, ladies and gentlemen, these instruments are working. The Ministry of the Family takes first steps to protect jobs and this is what we are focusing on today. But of course, sir, we are acting, working with the institutions of the labour market, whose aim is to support those who will lose their jobs. We have identified deficit competitions for today, surplus competitions. We know where to move to meet the expectations of employers. Yes, sir, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I encourage everyone to read all these instruments, not say that these instruments are not working. They're working, but maybe you need to talk to those who took advantage of this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u107	Minister! But I don't think we fully understand each other. I was really asking... These entrepreneurs have certain costs. I understand the protection of jobs and very well that such actions are taking place, while, ladies and gentlemen, these entrepreneurs will not have any liquidity in a moment as regards the possibility of regulating their obligations. It is also a matter of ensuring that when their business activity is unfreezed, they can start to function. I'm talking about helping these entrepreneurs like this. On the other hand, I did not hear an answer on the issue of the welfare allowance, as well as on the issue of cross-border workers. However, Minister, I would very much ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u108	And there will be a written reply, I suspect. Yes. That is why I am now asking you to ask Mr Waldemar Andzel of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 11 February 2020, we celebrated European Day of Alert 112. Last year, operators of the emergency number registered 22 million notifications. Since January, an application is available: Alarm112, especially for people with hearing and speech dysfunction. It provides communication with the operator via SMS. The app is widely available for Android and iOS phone owners, with Google Play store and store App Store. With regard to the mobile app Alarm112, I address my questions to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. What is the number of applications currently installed for users using Android and iOS operating systems? Second: How does the Minister generally feel about the operation of the Alarm112 application? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u110	Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Paweł Chezernaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Alarm112 app was created primarily for deaf and deaf people. It was established in January 2020. The main objective of the application is to provide people who cannot make a telephone call, an effective form of communication with emergency call operators in emergency call centres to provide the necessary assistance in situations of health, life, property, environment, security and public order. Mobile application requires user registration. Modular design of the application allows you to select with pictograms information describing alarm events, send a notification to the emergency call centre and bilateral communication via SMS. In addition, the Alarm112 app helps to determine the location of the event in order to inform the relevant emergency services about the type and location of the incident. All data indicated when building alarm information shall be transferred to the CPR IT system. They shall be based on the operator's handling of the notification of emergency numbers which, after verification and possible addition of the data, where contact with the notifier is possible, transmits the event data via the format to the competent services, i.e. to the police, the fire department and the State Medical Rescue. The application is compatible with the CPR IT system. It was created in close cooperation with the environment of deaf people, among others. with the Polish Union of the Deaf. The first stage of the work was the announcement by the MSWiA in 2017 of the mobile application competition. After selecting the winning project and carrying out the appropriate adjustment work, it was decided to pilot the implementation of the mobile application in which the selected group of deaf people participated. Pilot observations have been used to develop and implement targeted solutions. Mr. Marshal! With regard to statistics on the functioning of the mobile application, I would like to present the following information. From February to today 12 838 applications have been downloaded. Registered users are currently 7344. 424 notifications have been registered in the system so far, of which 205 were valid. This shows that the percentage of applications that are valid for applications is much higher than for telephone calls. The highest number of applications were recorded as soon as the application was started. A total of 125 emergency calls were sent to the police, the State Fire Department - 22nd State Medical Rescue - 36. The figures quoted above indicate that the introduction of such an alternative to the telephone connection means of communication from the emergency call centre was needed. It has contributed to helping people who may have had a difficult contact with the emergency number so far. It should also be noted that for mobile users there is a much smaller scale, as I said, of non-justifiable applications. In view of the demands of the environment for the development of this application, the MSWiA is currently working on assessing the existing 4-month functioning of the application, both functionally and technically, in order to enable the implementation of new functions in its case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. In a moment, Mr Waldemar Andzel will ask an additional question. We'll ask the Minister to answer. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u113	Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. You can see that this Alarm112 application works very well and is needed as much as possible. I have another question: Have people with hearing and speech dysfunction reported problems related to the current COVID-19 pandemic through the Alarm112 app, e.g. the willingness to perform the test or the need for assistance in the context of domestic quarantine? This is as timely as possible, and I think that the Alarm112 app certainly helps in this regard as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u114	Thank you very much. Is the Minister still willing to answer this question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In principle, 112 operators have redirected all such calls to the 112 call to the health care centre, because this is the unit that deals with the provision of information related to the epidemic. It was not possible to report because it was not possible to report it through the application. In the same way, number 112 meant not to block the 112 line for people who need to use it to save their lives. Therefore, as a general rule, the CPRs did not provide information on pandemics, but redirected it to the competent institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u116	Thank you very much. Questions on the transmission of data from the PESEL Post register by the Ministry of Digitalization will be asked by Members Sławomir Nitras and Arkadiusz Marchewka from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u117	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I'd like you to get into the situation I'm in. I'm not an MP right now. I'm just a citizen. I'm a citizen with a PESEL. My name, my address, is entered in the PESEL database, and it says how many children I have, who my wife is, what my parents are like, there are other data that are there. You know that better than I do. Poles are discussing it today. They wonder whether you are protecting them or whether you are treating them - I apologize for this expression - like a herd of rams that can be sold, given away, handed over to someone else. By the way, you're... Congratulations, because I found out that you were appointed as a representative of the government in charge two days ago. cyber security. So we feel as ordinary citizens that someone is guarding our data, which you must have and have at your disposal. But we would like to feel that you take us seriously, that our data is safe, that these data are not treated as data that can be traded, given back, given to someone just because someone has an interest. We know the government majority, the PiS has a big deal to do. This deal is called: let's force the elections, at all costs, sacrifice the personal data of Poles, give them. Poles don't want that. Poles want to feel that someone cares about their sensitive data, and they observe this debate, in which local governments do not want to pass it on, they say: we will not pass on the data. Why? Because the bill doesn't allow it. The law tells us to protect this data, not pass it on. And the minister, the government, the PiS, would like to say, who say, and we at all costs ladies. And you gave it to me, you gave it to me. Do Poles want this? No. Does the law allow that? No. And why did you? Because you just have a political interest. You traded - the minister, the servant, someone who serves, the government that should help Poles - the data of Poles (the bell) for political interest. Is it in the interest of Poles? Is it in the interest of the Polish state? Is it in Kowalski's interest to have a sense of security, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u118	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Thank you for your congratulations. I hope that we will take care of the cyber security of Poles together. My question is concern. I think that in this case there should be no dispute that cybersecurity is a key issue, especially at the time when we are, when our lives depend on how the Internet works, how the state systems work and how the data of Poles are protected. I would like to say that it is absolutely unacceptable what you said: that we have traded the data of Poles. We didn't trade anything. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that when it comes to this subject, which you are asking about, the Minister of Digitization provided data to the Polish Post Office, I stress: Poczta Polska, i.e. an institution of trust, an institution that stores sensitive information, provides sensitive information and data to Poles every day. We don't pass it on to just anyone if we're already passing it on. We all pass this on by sending our letters to the post office, to the trust institution. I would therefore like to talk about the fact that there has been a transfer of data to an institution which is an important element in the system of functioning of the State, where there are public post office officers, an institution that employs nearly 85 thousand. employees and every day carry out their mission, ensuring the security of the information we entrust to them. The communication of these data, which you spoke of, was carried out under Article. The measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The legislator obliged the Minister of Digitization to submit the data from the PESEL register, if these data are needed to carry out tasks related to the organisation of elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, within 2 days of the date of the request by the postal operator, i.e. the Polish Post Office. This provision entered into force on the day following the date of publication of the law. The Polish Post has requested and obtained data by 20 April, but has not obtained all the data, as the Member said. You can rest assured of your children. She was provided with data on the address of the check-in, the PESEL number, the names and the names, i.e. data that could be used for better organisation of the elections. It is also worth noting that this transfer, taking into account the concern that the Member mentioned, concerned the security of data, concerned an institution which operates these data on a daily basis, i.e. an institution which has permanent access to PESEL data in teletransmission mode. This access has, moreover, been available since 2014. This was issued on the basis of the decision of the Minister of Home Affairs in 2014. During that time she ruled among others. The Civic Platform. At that time, it was essential, as it is today, that we trust in the mail, because it meets all the requirements and caress as to the security of the data we entrust to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will now be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The choices of envelopes are a huge threat, because there is a great risk that this data will be used by someone, there is a great risk that there will be no secret vote, so it can generally be said that the choices of envelopes are making one big farce. It is therefore necessary to take such measures as will enable the protection of citizens' data. And it has to be said explicitly that today personal data is the most expensive currency and there are certainly many people who have wicked goals and will want to take over such data. So it's crucial to keep the data secure. If we hear that even examples of voting cards are already in undesirable hands and leaking somewhere, then what do Poles have to think about the security of their data? Minister, how have you made sure that the data is safe as a ministry so that it is not used for evil purposes by unwanted persons? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, someone who will prepare the electoral packages must prepare 30 million of these packages. So it's not gonna be one man, but it's gonna be a big group, and the data will be able to check different people. How, then, did you take care of security, and what guarantee do you give that this data will not be used for evil purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u122	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! First of all, it must be said that the data we are talking about in the PESEL register is not the same as the data from the register and from the electoral census and will not be used directly for the preparation of electoral activities. They're only used for logistical preparation. These data will remain in the Polish Post Office. They were handed over to Poczta Polska in a procedure which is foreseen for this purpose. The data was encrypted, transmitted on an encrypted disk, and were transported by a special convoy to the Polish Post. The post office shall be required by the Minister of Digitisation to remove them when the objective is no longer pursued. Moreover, once again, we are passing on this data to the public trust institution, and it is worth remembering that. Finally, what is important is that every entrepreneur and institution is subject to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Regulation, the Personal Data Protection Act, which impose very high sanctions for possible failure to comply with, the obligations related to data processing and their security. Therefore, if this were the case, that Poland's Post would not ensure the security of personal data, no matter what mode of transmission, whether it was the data which the Minister of Digitization provided under the Art. 99 of the Act of 16 April 2020 or in the mode of teletransmission, under which, once again, I stress - Polish Post still has access to much broader data, because all the data contained in the PESEL register or any other personal data that Poland Post receives from any other sources, and if there is a breach of the protection of these data, personal data protection laws, the Office for Personal Data Protection can always check this, first, and if it finds that there has been a breach, then there are very high sanctions for which we have discussed, among others. when we implemented GDPR in Poland. We are talking about sanctions up to a maximum of EUR 20 million, so really very large. But I also want to say that in all the history I know, I do not recall breaches in the field of data protection entrusted to the Polish Post Office, and certainly that they concern a large scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciarz, the Law and Justice, addressed to the Minister for Digitisation, on the launch of the project, a remote school. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Before we know about the project, the remote school must act by the remote Sejm. Maybe not to waste time, and I see that Mr Marcin Kierwiński is in the courtroom... Only there is no Mr Kropiwnicki who asks additional questions. In that case, if he has no will from the Members... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, just a minute. Okay, maybe at that time we can get a connection with Mr Goncier, and if we don't, I'll ask Mr Kierwinski. Mr. Marshal, we can begin. Then we proceed with the question by Mr Marcin Kierwiński. Other Members will report in order in the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. President, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I very much regret that Mr Morawiecki is not in this room, that he has not come to answer this question. In fact, not because he won't answer my question, just because I wanted to personally give a warning to Prime Minister Morawiecki, for his sake. I think that Prime Minister Morawiecki should know that all his ministers are fleeing the decision that the Prime Minister signed on the election. So that in the end, the only one responsible for breaking the law, breaking the constitution will be Prime Minister Morawiecki. Please, Minister, let the Prime Minister know that at the very end He's the only one who's gonna sit on the jury for what he's doing right now. The electoral process in Poland is governed by the constitution and laws. It was always a process which was transparent, independent, a process for which Poles had confidence. Today, the constitution, the bill was replaced by two decisions of Prime Minister Morawiecki: one in relation to the Polish Security Printing Works, the other in relation to the Polish Post. Today, these institutions and Mr Morawiecki are to organise elections in Poland. We have questions for Prime Minister Morawiecki about this process, for which, as I said, he will answer sooner or later. What are the costs of this operation? Have contracts been signed, or is everything that's going on illegal? Does Prime Minister Morawiecki realise that the process that triggered these two decisions leads to the fact that the ballot cards, the ballot cards can already be seen on the Internet? Soon we'll be able to buy them on Allegro. That's the process you've funded. Can Prime Minister Morawiecki answer how this process will be secured? Can Prime Minister Morawiecki answer what company prints these ballots? Will the Prime Minister finally be able to answer who's securing it if this company (the bell) will not print them 10,000. more to pass it on to friends of yours, perhaps to colleagues of the government? Do you know the answers to these questions? Minister, I know it's not for you, but this is a warning for Prime Minister Morawiecki, because this is very serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u126	Thank you very much. The answer to this question will be answered by Minister Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u127	Forgive me, but I don't think it's possible to speak like this, at least for me... We understand. I've never spoken in a mask, so we keep our social distance, I understand. Mr. Speaker! Gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! In my speech, I would like to concentrate on the formal aspect, on the legal basis, which is the basis of the decisions that the Minister indicated. To the so-called. The warning thank you very much, I will certainly pass it on, however you treat it. However, I stress: the Prime Minister acts with full responsibility, with knowledge of the laws, which he is, of course, a co-author, and with respect for them. As regards the provisions, as regards the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to issue an article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a Act on special solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19, orders of Poczta Polska S.A. and Polish Security Printing Works Spółka Akcyjna, I would like to indicate in the context of the justification what follows. This special act sets out the principles and modalities for preventing and combating infection and spreading of COVID-19, including rules and procedures for anti-epidemic action, in particular the task of public administrations to prevent and combat COVID-19, i.e. it is intended to apply in all situations where a given type of activity, including social, civic, political or administrative, can cause, even potentially, even to a small extent, an increase in epidemic risk. The holding of elections to the President of the Republic of Poland in 2020 in correspondence mode, not in traditional mode, i.e. in electoral premises, in a basic manner, in a manner which does not cause any doubt affects the limitation of the possibility of COVID-19 or their effects on the territory of the Republic of Poland. That's a fact. It is difficult to say to what extent, whether small or important. However, limiting the spread of this virus in this way is obvious. Thus, any action taken by the President of the Council of Ministers, including in the form of administrative decisions pursuant to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 specializations that contribute to the provision of personnel and technical and organizational tools to conduct correspondence elections are directly related to the countering of COVID-19. The wording of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 specializations do not restrict the President of the Council of Ministers as to the scope of the instructions issued. They may be relevant to all issues and any entities, provided that they are intentionally linked to the counter-COVID-19, as demonstrated in the case of the two decisions examined, there is no doubt. The fact that the Law on special rules for the conduct of general elections has not yet entered into force is an argument that the President of the Council of Ministers has duly substantiated the validity of the two decisions examined. If the preparatory activities referred to therein were to start only after the date of entry into force of the Act, there would be a risk that the time limits prescribed by law could not be implemented. And if it doesn't come into force, then what? For the time being, we assume that it will come into force, sir. But you decide for the Sejm? No, the Seym is sovereign. We are counting on the responsible decision of both chambers of parliament. Minister, please answer the question that Mr Kierwiński has asked. There will be time for further questions. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you for drawing Mr Nitras' attention... Worse if the Sejm doesn't accept. I did not pay Mr Nitras any attention, but I asked the Minister to answer Mr Kierwinski's question. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done here. The recommendations issued by the President of the Council of Ministers in both decisions examined should be assessed as necessary and necessary to effectively counter COVID-19. The state of the epidemic undoubtedly justifies using the possibility of administrative intervention introduced by the President of the Council of Ministers to ensure the technical and organisational aspects of conducting the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland in correspondence. Mr. Speaker! As for the specific questions you have asked about the contractor's company, about the costs, about the safeguards, we will answer in writing. I merely stress that this case that you brought up, which is to show at the press conference a copy of the electoral card, is the subject of our explanations and findings. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, is this the only card?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask you to ask Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am really looking at this with great horror because we thought we were still living in a state of law, that there is a constitution that says that any authority can act within the limits and on the basis of the law. In the meantime, the Prime Minister makes decisions that have no basis and concern the organisation of elections to which the Prime Minister has no competence. Elections are organised on the basis of the constitution and the electoral code, not on the basis of the Prime Minister's decision. On the basis of this decision, the Prime Minister may as well issue an order to print electoral balls and electoral balls you will vote for yourself. It's all fiction and deception. It's the preparation of an election gag. You're gonna cheat Poles that this is some kind of election, and this is just a scam. That is why I ask who will prepare these cards, who will envelope them (the bell), who will prepare these election packages for what amounts. I would like to point out that under the same law, you are hiding your contractors, the amounts for which they will do it, and who will do it. Normally, it is done by the regional electoral committees, under strict social supervision. And now you don't know who prints, where prints, how much. And for who? All this should be transparent, Poles need to know about it. What's in these packages? And if these packages have election flyers and some other material that shouldn't be there, who's gonna be responsible? Letters. It's not like anyone controls it based on these decisions. These decisions have no basis. I'm asking you to answer who's responsible for this, who's going to be preparing these election packages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szrot will answer the same as before.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! For long minutes I spoke about the legal basis which was the basis for these decisions by the Prime Minister, and I justified the substantive and actual application of this and not another legal basis. But not this vote. I am very sorry that the Member did not want to be careful and accept this information. As far as costs are concerned, when it comes to real operators carrying out these tasks, nothing will be hidden. I assure you that nothing will be hidden, everything will be available in the public domain, including the parliamentarians. I find the suggestion that there should be electoral leaflets in this envelope to be disgusting and that it should not be in this House of Parliament. Thank you very much. But who controls it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u132	Thank you very much. We have been informed that Mr Jarosław Gonciarz is already on the links, so we ask him to ask us a question. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ministry of Digitization launched on 1 April a project "A Remote School for which 186 million PLN was allocated - for the purchase of computers for the most deprived children and teachers. The project is a response to the current needs of students and teachers connected primarily with the introduction of an epidemic in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It also helps to combat digital exclusion. In view of the very positive reception of the project, I would like to ask the Minister how many municipalities and powiats have already applied for funding when the municipalities and powiats receive this funding and whether there may be a situation that some local government units will lack support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u134	Thank you very much. Please respond to Mr Marek Zagórski, Minister of Digitization.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the Remote School programme was designed by us as an intervention programme to ensure that, in this difficult situation in which we all found ourselves and which required non-standard education measures, especially for those students and teachers who had no access to computers at all, or that access, especially in families of many children, was difficult because the situation in which one computer was at home and several people had to use it, was indeed problematic. Hence the initiative. 186 million from the OP PC programme appeared as a result of shifting and giving up some other important tasks, which were of course essential for us, such as the construction of hotspot networks in municipalities. Nevertheless, we felt that this was a much more important issue in this situation. The project was actually prepared so that each local government unit, if any, would receive an amount that was calculated depending on the number of pupils in the local government unit concerned. The amount of the funding amounted to 35,100 thousand. zł. Yesterday, 2790 eligible local governments applied for 2710 municipalities and districts, which is to say that practically everyone. There are cases, especially districts where schools are not conducted. Therefore, this request is unlikely to be made in these situations. On the other hand, it is important and worth emphasising that the program was formally launched by us on 1 April, while all expenses incurred for this purpose, i.e. computers, software and possible purchase of Internet access, incurred since 16 March, i.e. since school classes were suspended. Therefore, those expenses which occurred before the date of the application, i.e. the application may have been submitted, say, on 15 April, will also be eligible. If expenditure was incurred on 30 March or 2 April, it will also be eligible expenditure. The condition for the transfer of funds is, of course, the conclusion of a contract. This is a process a little longer than processing applications, because it requires confirmation of this agreement and signing by the municipality or district, sending it back to the Project Centre of Digital Poland. But this is already happening, and very soon after the conclusion of this agreement, funds are transferred. These funds have so far been paid 30 million PLN for almost 500 units of local government, but once again I stress that purchases are carried out earlier, from the own resources of the municipality, they are refunded. According to our information, the 2710 municipalities and districts that have applied for have made a large majority of purchases without waiting for the funds to be transferred to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u136	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Gonciusz. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This programme is a real support for students who are faced with digital exclusion, which is why I believe that this programme gives us a good opportunity for the future to learn about the needs of hardware students and to explore the way of remote education through digital educational programmes. After the end of the programme, will the Remote School, after the outbreak of the Ministry of Digitalization or the Ministry of Education together with the Ministry of Digitalization, want to use this knowledge to deepen the development of digital education among students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u138	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u139	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I would like to say that, indeed, the situation in which we are in this situation is an emergency. I would also like to say that for several years we have been preparing and conducting the process of modernising the Polish school, for example through programs such as the Active Table or the construction of the National Education Network, which is intended to provide access to high-speed Internet for all schools in Poland. This project is being implemented all the time, despite objective difficulties today. It is also worth saying that we have been preparing a digital transformation of the school for conducting classes using digital tools at school and not at home, so it required a change in our approach, while we will certainly use the experience we have at the moment to continue the process of digital transformation of the school. What I can confirm is that I can confirm that for sure, and this is also the experience that we have at the moment, in this short time has been speeding up the ability of teachers and students to use digital tools, the infrastructure has certainly been improved, even if a very important platform such as e-handbooks, which has gained much greater efficiency and the ability to handle a much larger number of students, has certainly also been organized to access different types of e-resources outside the e-handler platform. I can say that remote lessons, which is a portal on gov.pl, which we dedicated to students and teachers, were visited 42 million times during this month, which means that there is very much interest. We'll also continue to provide the schools. We have foreseen the means and the possibility of increasing the subsidy to the OSE operator by 50 million this year, which may translate, together with the savings that we are currently verifying, into an additional tool such as the remote school programme, which means that we may still have the possibility, we will decide on this in the coming days, additional additions to schools, but of course we will inform about this how it will be 100% Yeah, sure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. You will be asked questions by Krzysztof Sobolewski and Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This is a question about the effects of the government's anti-crisis shield on the protection of jobs in relation to the pandemic of Coronavirus and the threat of adverse economic effects. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u141	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Following the introduction by the Government of Law and Justice of a package of solutions contained in an anti-crisis shield containing instruments to protect and support Polish entrepreneurs from the economic consequences of the Coronavirus pandemic, and as this package contains detailed solutions to protect jobs, which is crucial for stabilising Polish families, I have questions to ask the Minister. What number of applications have so far been submitted by entrepreneurs in relation to job protection? How many of these applications are left completed and for what amount? Minister, I must also ask a question about the functioning of district labour offices. Is it true that, in some district labour offices, the examination of these applications is difficult? They are considered either in the longer term, or in a very small number, here I am talking about examples of applications of micro-entrepreneurs, where only 11% have so far been considered at the district employment office in Gdańsk. applications, less than 12% were examined at the county employment office in Łódź conclusions, and what is quite surprising, in Warsaw only 6% of such applications were considered. What's it related to? I do not want to believe that this is a deliberate action, I would more like to believe that this is related to organisational difficulties and problems in the functioning of district labour offices. But I would very much ask the Minister for information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u142	Thank you very much. Ms Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u143	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Support for Polish families, support for Polish entrepreneurs, which is included in our crisis shield, is primarily the protection of jobs. Protecting jobs is a priority for us, because there are specific families behind these jobs, specific human issues. And from the very beginning, and we can say today, on April 30th, that we are already actually doing a month of support programme related to the crisis situation caused by the pandemic in which we are. In answer to the Members' questions - I am very pleased that they have fallen here - also concerning district labour offices, I will also extend this to voivodeship labour offices, and these tasks are carried out by local government units, county labour offices and voivodship labour offices. We as a government both secure funds for the protection of these jobs and transfer funds to the county and voivodship labour offices to handle this task, 0.5% from the amount of these proposals that are being implemented in the individual, because we realise that it is a priority that people do not lose their jobs to protect jobs, so that these offices work efficiently. We meet, actually we can say that every day, with the provincial labour offices, exchanging information, and with the county labour offices were through the voivodships conferences, but also through the conventions of these county labour offices. The implementation is as follows: the applications for job protection were submitted 2 557 554, i.e. specific families, and specific workers are behind these proposals. So we, the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right, first of all, want the funds to be paid as quickly as possible. The funds, I guarantee, will be systematically transferred to voivodship, county labour offices. What is the current implementation? First of all, there are two such sources of funding, i.e. support for the protection of jobs through the Guaranteed Employee Benefits Fund, funding for a specific job, depending on whether it is an economic interruption or whether it is a reduced working time. So far, amounts of PLN 1,668 851 431 have been paid. It's actually very big support and these entrepreneurs... This task is carried out by voivodship labour offices, for which I thank you very much, and this task is carried out efficiently. The micro-credits mentioned here by the Member are another mechanism of support. There is a great interest in micro-credits, which are also addressed to these tiny entrepreneurs, but also to self-employed people. As of today, an amount of PLN 828 106 929 has been paid for 166 337 loans. This task is carried out by county labour offices and these county labour offices have, as I said, received support depending on the amount of funds that are spent on this task from the government, 0.5%. We meet with local government officials because, as many times from this Seym was said, this is our joint action: protecting jobs. This implementation is different. I'm here tonight, too, after a meeting like this. First of all, I also talk to big cities. Here, above all, there is a challenge for these county labour offices. The last situation in our country was that there was low unemployment, so labour offices did their job, in fact mainly organizing various types of training, activation of unemployed people, but today is a challenge. Today is actually 5 minutes for those county labour offices, which are equipped with funds just by the government (the bell) that carry out the task. And I hope that this task will be carried out very smoothly. As regards the funds that have been allocated, already paid for parking, i.e. from the Labour Fund by the Social Insurance Institution, the amount of PLN 352 886 820 has been paid for 176 thousand. 298,000. conclusions. To sum up, the total amount for the protection of jobs at the moment is almost PLN 3 billion transferred by the government plus funds to serve this task by county and voivodship labour offices. That is why I ask the state of local government from this seymary, because as far as the county labour and voivodeship offices are concerned, it is your responsibility, we met, we talked to support. We secure resources, there is an organization on your side, so that the entrepreneur, and behind a particular entrepreneur, is a specific man, a particular family, got the money as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u144	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u145	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Thank you very much for giving a comprehensive answer to this question, and allow me to take the opportunity to also thank on behalf of entrepreneurs and employees for preparing an anti-crisis shield package, which supports entrepreneurs, but also supports workers in this difficult economic situation in which our country is currently located. The Minister spoke about job protection. Yes, it is a very important element of an anti-crisis shield, whose successive extensions respond to the needs of entrepreneurs, but also employees. You spoke to the Minister about the amounts spent on protecting jobs since the entry into force of the anti-crisis shield, and I would like to ask how many jobs have already been protected at the moment (The Bell). What other government plans to take action in this regard? How many jobs are to be protected in the end and what are the plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u146	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u147	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since the beginning of the anti-crisis shield aimed at Polish entrepreneurs, to support Polish entrepreneurs and to protect jobs, we can safely say that 2 million jobs have been protected for which specific funds secured by the State have been earmarked. Proof of that... Many times, from this Seym Council, you take up such a subject that the shield doesn't work. Shield's working. It is worth looking at the list that we publish on our website every day, five companies from each voivodship with the highest funding. So these are specific support that goes to specific companies, because in these companies there are Polish families. The actions that you have asked us to take are, above all, actions that will continue to activate those who may become unemployed. The point is that during this period, people do not stay on unemployment benefits, but they can take up work. We have this diagnosed, we have another package prepared, we will present it in the next steps. First of all, it is about the Polish family, so that the Polish entrepreneur has the liquidity. We've got 2 million jobs to protect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. Now questions will be asked by Barbara Bartus and Anna Milczanowska on maintaining the sustainability of the government's social programmes dedicated to the family. Here you go, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u149	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice recognised the support of Polish families as one of the priority objectives and we are very happy about it. In fulfilling this goal, we have introduced and implement social programs dedicated to the family, such as the children's education support programme, Family 500+.The first, flagship program, programme supporting children and young people in connection with the beginning of the school year, good start. Mom 4+, but also many programs aimed at disabled people, carers, programs that have recently started to function, such as. supplementary benefit for persons unable to live independently. Recently, however, such information has appeared, mainly in the media space, which has sown anxiety in Polish families, whether these programs will continue, because they are very questionable, especially the programme. 500+. I met in an election campaign with a situation when the opposition said that 500+ goes into pathology, that families that have at least four children, that's pathology. That's the other side's approach to the family. In this situation, as soon as President-in-Office Andrzej Duda signed a declaration that he would not sign any law that would bear these programs, and there is no response from the opposition, from other candidates, and also many Poles remember what was happening during the time of the PO-PSL government, when we also had a crisis, and much less, because it was an economic crisis (the bell) and just then were reduced funeral allowances, taxes were increased... So this concern is probably justified. Therefore, I would like the Minister to answer directly, here, in the Polish Sejm, whether the government plans to continue social programmes dedicated to Polish families. Are there any restrictions on these programmes considered? I also ask you to answer the question, how many people, how many Polish families have benefited from this state aid, from this help to return to normality or to pursue normality and how many programs today, during this difficult period, are effective, helping. We have a really difficult pandemic period, not only a difficult health period, but also an economic one, and a difficult period in families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u150	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u151	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You can say that the last five years are a good time for Polish families. The flagship programmes that have been mentioned by the Member of the House, the family of 500+.The family of 500+.The good start or the mom 4+.The senior policy, the senior policy, the activation of the elderly, as well as the package of programmes supporting people with disabilities, are those actions which are primarily intended to support Polish families. In public space, the 500+ family is often criticised. We hear a lot of disturbing information. We guarantee that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki guarantees that these programmes will be implemented. As President Andrzej Duda said, this is important and important for Polish families. Little, ladies and gentlemen, today's 500+ family programme has yet another additional dimension in this difficult situation. Today, when one parent or perhaps both are worried about whether jobs will be protected - of course, the government will ensure that these places are protected - this benefit, which affects the household budget every month, allows you to go through this difficult time relatively calmly. And what does it look like in numbers? The flagship program "Family 500+" - I had the pleasure of introducing this program, working at the Voivodeship Office in Poznań. He was criticized, it was shown that the Polish family would not know how to spend this money, that there should be a catalogue indicating what parents could spend their money on. And what does it turn out to be? Until then, we transferred as an investment in the Polish family, believing in the Polish family, over 105 billion PLN. 105 billion PLN is the money that goes to about 6.5 million children every month. Today, in the 2020 budget, despite the difficult situation, the funds are fully provided. The implementation of this programme is safe, the programme will be implemented in the following years. There is no risk to the implementation of this programme. It is precisely because the budget was so designed that the budget was balanced, today, when other actions are probably to be taken, that it is allowed to be implemented. There are priorities for us. The foundation of the Polish government, the foundation of Poland is the Polish family, so it is about protecting the Polish family, investing in the Polish family and protecting jobs in this difficult situation. But there are other programs that we will implement and implement. Good start is a programme being implemented - so-called. trip to start the school year, 300 PLN for each student. The programme will also be implemented this year. The programme covers about 4.5 million children, with a budget of around 1.5 billion a year. So it can be said that we have actually spent almost PLN 4.5 billion if we add up this year. We will implement this program. An extremely important program, when we talk about family, is the program "Mama 4+..." or parenting supplemental benefit. It embraces mom, but also dad, who raised four children. At this point in 2019 the programme, with this support, was covered by 55 thousand additional benefits. bearers - PLN 300 million. In 2020 we have the funds provided at the level of PLN 400 million. It is also worth mentioning the supplementary programmes, which mainly help Polish families, families with small children, decide whether mom can return to work after maternity leave or if she wants to stay at home. It is about the "Maluch+" programme, for which funds have been increased since 2018: in 2017 there were 150 million for the implementation of the programme, since 2018 450 million PLN has been allocated annually to the creation of crèches, but also to the payment for the operation of public and non-public crèches. Even in the COVID Act, we pointed out that there was a difficult situation (the bell), crèches were closed, but the funding from the program "Maluch+" will be transferred to both local governments and non-governmental entities. And, of course, the entire senior policy. We can't forget our seniors. This is our thanks, 13th pension, last year paid as the first benefit. Today, the Polish Parliament made sure that this benefit was paid by law every year. It's April, we're done paying the 13th pension this year. This is over PLN 12 billion for our pensioners, for about 10 million pensioners. It is our thanks for how our pensioners raised their children, helped raise their grandchildren, but in today's pandemic situation it is also support, just so even our seniors can experience this difficult period a little better. There are also programs aimed at seniors implemented by self-government units. The budget is 80 million. There are houses and senior clubs that aren't functioning yet, but we're probably gonna be opening them up in a minute. These are places of meetings, places of activity of the elderly, because every smile of these people is primarily their health. They live with the feeling that they can talk to friends, they can meet that various rehabilitation activities can be carried out. We see that need. These programmes will be implemented. Waiting to settle the program on the social activity of the elderly... We're getting to the bottom of this. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...the programme has been under way for years, this year - probably in early May. 40 million PLN will be distributed annually to non-governmental organisations and they will implement this too. We're getting to the conclusion, Minister. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: So I assure you that all the social programmes implemented by the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, the programs that show the value of the family as the highest, have been and will be implemented to the full extent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u152	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mrs Anna Milczanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for showing how the whole package of social programs is being implemented towards the Polish family: from the youngest ones, through their parents, middle-aged people, to the seniors we care so much about. Minister! I know it's about a few hundred billion zlotys if we wanted to count all of this from the moment the programs started working. I know that 13 pensions are still paid this year. I would like to ask how it is implemented, whether there are no downtimes and whether, in fact, according to the promises made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, by the Minister these 13th pensions will reach our seniors in time. I would also like to thank you very much for what the Minister has mentioned here and what has been written in the anti-covid laws for the programme, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the fact that this money will be retained in the local governments that use it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u154	Thank you very much. Minister, I ask you to respond and to stick to the time frame.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the 13th pension, as I said, last year not yet paid under the Act, as a one-off benefit, and this year included in the Act, our pensioners, without applying, will receive in April, the day on which their pensions are paid. A small number of pensioners can actually get them at the beginning of May. The witnessing is fully realized, despite the difficult situation, the ZUS stood at the level of the task. The delivery in secure envelopes was delivered by the Polish Post to the homes of our pensioners and pensioners in those cases where there were no accounts. So that quietly, the benefit is realized and there is no danger that anyone will not receive this benefit. As regards the implementation of further types of support, of course It's very important. Our seniors are a priority because family is a priority of our actions, hence all these security measures in this difficult situation related to COVID. We also need to look at this from the point of view that programmes are addressed to local governments, NGOs and local governments, individuals are not deprived of this money, they will be transferred because we realise how important it is to implement them. Thus, the 13th pension under the Act is paid in 2020, for the first time it was paid in 2019 and will be paid in subsequent years. We keep our word because caring for the Polish family is the most important thing for us. That is why we take all actions in the care of the family, including those related to the protection of jobs. We will show it, not just talk about it, and support it in concrete terms, because credibility is very important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u156	Thank you very much. And one last round of questions. The questions are asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice, and then by Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u157	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and concerns the Retention Development Programme. After this point, the general information about drought will be presented and crocodiles will probably shed tears over what is happening in Poland. Probably these tears are justified, because the problem of drought, a very serious problem, exists and grows, but it did not occur this year or even last year, the problem of drought in Poland has existed for many years. Negligence in water management affects not a few, several years, but several decades. It was draining everything, there was a one-sided drain that we called, which was called melioration by Poland, and today we see that this melioration had effects not only positive but also negative: wetlands, peat bogs were destroyed. And today we are facing a huge problem. I am glad that the Government of Law and Justice does not say that drought has been and somehow we will manage it, but we are looking for solutions to ensure that it is possible not only to eliminate losses in agriculture but also to stop water. I welcome this programme, which was first defined last year, but it has now been strongly underlined by Minister Ardanowski (Dzinek) together with the President, the first person in the country, the Retention Development Programme. What's the question? My question concerns the concreteness of the Minister, which funds for small or medium retention will be allocated and what is the progress of the implementation of this programme. It is necessary now, immediately, because the drought not only occurred last year, but it can also occur - there are such assumptions - this year and it can be much, much bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u158	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Ryszard Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored to answer the question which, however, is at the discretion of Minister Gróbarczyk, who is with us and who mainly deals with retention on a national scale. But indeed, as the Member has pointed out, this is an inter-ministerial task, that is the task of the whole government. Stopping water is a question that cannot be solved at the level of great rivers, you have to start where this water appears, e.g. After winter. From our perspective, from the point of view of farmers, agriculture, hundreds of thousands of kilometres of drainage ditches, which go into small streams and rivers, are, for us at least, perhaps more important than large retention investments, although, as Minister G grubarczyk has already said here, he will probably repeat it once again, we have a huge backlog of global retention. We're holding 6.5%. water in Poland. In Spain, which has obviously had huge problems for many years - changed climate - 45% The water is reclaimed. So there's a lot to do. The actions that Minister Gróbaryczyk mentioned here today give us a chance to do so. Even if the measures taken this year to reduce retention increase this retention by 1%, twice. This is a very big change. And, most importantly, I think - as symbolically today it is seen here, and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Climate, we work together. We establish local water partnerships in all powiats in Poland, i.e. discussion forums of farmers associated with water companies, water farms Polish of course, representatives of local authorities. There's also knowledge of it. They will cooperate with each other and determine what is to be done, because there is much to be done at every level. Unfortunately, the farmer who fell asleep, it was very often happening, water mesh and unfortunately did not take care at the right time of the bushing, and today it has wind erosion - he too. But above all, the climate has changed. We do not blame farmers, although we say that they, too, have all for many years ignored the problem of retention, water retention. The entire drainage system for decades has been identified as draining water from the fields, while the drainage in practice should mean, and we hope that soon it will mean stopping water at the time at which it is necessary, and removing surpluses when it is needed. There is a huge question of watercourses, small and large, which have been paved with liking for years. Today we are talking about this and encourage farmers, also through our institutes subordinate to the Minister of Agriculture: the Institute of Cultivation, Fertilization and Soil Science in Puławy, the Institute of Technology and Nature in Falses, to ensure that water retention practices are disseminated, that is, for example. They remembered that water spills... that there are certain places somewhere on the edge of the fields that serve to keep water there at the very beginning, before it sails to large rivers and seas. We can't afford... We're about to talk about paying damages, billions of zlotys for drought damages. We can't just afford to act reactively because what we're doing and we're going to be doing soon is de facto reactive. What you are proposing to Minister Grabierczyk is a system of national programmes. It is precisely this cooperation between farmers, agricultural organisations and institutes that we will take in the long term. Of course, we can give you the amounts that will be this year, only this year, if you are asking for specific amounts. In 2020 for basic activities, the standard enterprises of Water Polskie are 400 million PLN, for 4 thousand PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] tasks, and in the long term - 820 tasks for the amount of PLN 66.5 billion. These are specific amounts... Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Kaminski: ...which we're going to use to retort. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus in a remote version.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u161	Dear Marshal, Minister! Thank you so much for your answer. Of course, the issue of drought at this point is very important for us and the matter of water retention in the environment, water retention in the field is very important. Yesterday, in one of Mrs SLD's programmes, she strongly argued that keeping water in these large tanks, the high retention, was a big mistake. Can the Minister refer to this? Can the Minister say that this is really such a mistake? Because I think that these actions should be taken in parallel, i.e. I am talking here and about a little retention, and a lot of retention, and I am talking about irrigation, and I am talking about those measures that are prepared for farmers in the ARIMR. And, of course, I would also like you, Minister, to say one more sentence, if you can, about the renaissance of the rivers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u162	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Richard Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe you're looking at us. The briefest can be said: we need every retention today, the one in large tanks too, but we as those who work with farmers, as I said before, strive, encourage, first work on the retention of the land, on retention in the drainage ditches, on retention in small tanks. Hence our hydration program, which we launched in the autumn of Ub. r., thus close cooperation with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping, but also with the Polish Water farm. We have launched coordination groups in every voivodship, i.e. in the Polish Waters there is a partner for cooperation in this irrigation activity and in every agricultural advisory centre in Poland there is also a partner who will be trained to deal with water, help apply for irrigation. These are very concrete actions. I'm a proponent. very concrete and practical actions, not such high-floor ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u164	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on the occurrence of drought in Poland will be considered, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. I therefore ask that the representative of the applicants Mirosław Maliszewski, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland, take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Pandemic and drought - these are two words that most often appear in discussions between Poles today, and often are dominant words in discussions between farmers. The point is that the drought we have today is not only a phenomenon that has a negative impact on consumers and on the economy in the form of lost income, a deterioration in export conditions, but also a negative financial impact in the form of a reduction in the incomes of individual farms in the case of farmers. Recently, as the first important politician, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish pointed this out, saying at a press conference that the anti-crisis shield really missed the farmers, did not cover them. Drought, which is now emptying their pockets, is a phenomenon of great negative significance. Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz also proposed - and we, when submitting a proposal in the form of current information, will also present - a few ideas, requests that farmers at this difficult time give much more help than is declared, because declarations, which are not compatible with real activities, are being made. I was talking about the rise in food prices, about the reduced export of Polish food, which could have a negative impact on the economy. This can also result in permanent dependence on imports from countries that somehow cope with drought in many segments. But most importantly, what is always in the circle of interest of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, is what is happening today with farmers' income. The point is that this income is systematically lost, every day reduced, because both these symbolic rainfalls, as well as this symbolic aid, which is given to farmers, dedicated, have very negative consequences for them. So what can farmers really get in this case? What can they do in this case? I do not agree absolutely with all the associations, the claims that have been formulated that farmers have neglected something in the past years: they have buried the ponds, they have concreteized the culverts. No. Farmers then did what was possible to restore soil fertility to restore their productivity. And we are talking about a time when there was excess water in Poland. Hence the investment in melioration equipment at the time. But melioration devices were never used to pass water in the opposite direction. Today we talk a lot about the retention program, we talk about how it's worth keeping water. This is true, this water must be stopped, although the conditions for this are unfortunately wrong. Today, in order for a farmer to build an object like a pond to use for irrigation purposes, he must obtain a number of documents, permits. And what he can do without permission does not guarantee him an increase in water supply for his own farm. So absolutely - and this is one of the conclusions - it needs to be changed. It is necessary to allow farmers to build these facilities without permits, without authorisation and without notification to the relevant authorities, as is the case in other countries, so that the farmer can easily make such an investment. Secondly, nothing is said about the fact that once a farmer has already built this facility, he must be helped to transport this water from the tank to the field, to a plot where there is drought. The water's not going up the mountain by itself. So we can't just talk about retention, but we need to talk about improving irrigation systems, sprinklers. These are the systems that make farming traditionally, on poor quality soils, possible support in the form of water supplied from these reservoirs. There is no support in this regard. And what is presented as a long-term action - just now was also mentioned - that is, the Rural Development Programme, not only that it is too low-financing for this type of investment, it still causes farmers to enter into a number of administrative restrictions, including - and this is what farmers are most afraid of - the inclusion of them in the system of fees charged by the Polish Water farm. During the discussion on the Polish Waters Act, we talked about releasing farmers from their collection fees. They were not exempt from these charges. Medium and large farms certainly have to pay such charges today and this is the main brake, which makes farmers not benefit from this RDP mechanism. And even though the Minister of Agriculture accuses them of being incompetent, that they are losers, they don't use that money, they're actually more worried about their own pocket than about the effects of drought. These are the long-term activities that, in my mind and in the sense of our club, are insufficient. They focus only on declaring matters related to retention, do not make it easier for farmers, do not say anything about supplying water to plants that need it most at times like today. For this reason, the programme is clearly insufficient and incomplete. Farmers must be exempt from fees, free from administrative burdens, give them the opportunity to store water and provide this water cheaply to the plants that need it. And now: we still have short-term action. Short-term measures that prevent the effects of drought from the point of view of the farmer, the holding, are, for example, insurance. I would like to say that today there is no insurance company in Poland, an insurance company, which could offer farmers an offer including State subsidies. A long time ago, the insurance payments for hail, frosts, today it's actually literary fiction. The agricultural crop insurance system from drought and other phenomena in fact does not exist. In this respect, PZU's monopoly has so increased its rates that even with State subsidies, farmers will not be insured. Secondly, even if some of them decide to insure themselves, there will be no funding from the State budget for subsidies. In fact, this system is stopped. And now this famous help with the drought, which is served in billions. You like to put up with billions of dollars, how much you're putting into one part of the economy or another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Farmers didn't see these billions, they just heard about them, including the statements from the day before yesterday, when the president and the minister of agriculture said so nicely that they wouldn't leave farmers without help. Do not declare that you will assist them, but first of all give what has already been granted to farmers in the form of a decision, i.e. what was granted in previous years. Only then can you talk about billions. Pay first what is due to farmers, and then tell them how you will help them. This information, in our opinion, and I have been saying this, is not only to draw the attention of the public, who are responsible for problems arising from drought, but also what Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz said at the press conference on drought, a number of ideas, solutions which the implementation of which guarantees at least the reduction of the negative effects of drought on Polish farmers and the Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u166	Thank you very much to Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, who presented the drought situation on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please respond to Mr Mark Grybarczyk, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, the subject is very complex because it affects a few resorts, a few areas of the economy, and I will therefore focus on what I am responsible for, i.e. the water management programme. As far as the issue of agriculture is concerned, with compensation already directly, I would ask that you allow the Marshal to answer Mr Kaminski. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about the current weather situation we're in. We must say that this year was or is unprecedented in the context of water management, above all the amount of rainfall. We haven't had this warm winter in 150 years, and January was the most dry month in the history of measurements. The lack of snow cover, i.e. the total absence of melting water, only deepened the impact of drought on agricultural areas. When we talk about the river situation, at present 50% water tips indicate low water levels. This also negatively affects the hydrological situation of the soil, moisture of the soil. This hydrological drought currently affects 90% The country. It is very dangerous that the measurements we took less than 20 days ago indicated that such humidity occurs at 50% the area of Poland. After this period, it increased to 90%. Of course, the weather looks dynamic. You're watching the current rainfall. They will certainly help, but they will not significantly improve the situation regarding this drought. Besides, leaning on rain alone today would be a mistake, because a year ago, I will remind you, the Vistula level during this period was 6 m high water column, and a few weeks later - 40 cm. Therefore, we need to focus on very large fluctuations in water level and water management that is unstable in this way. It is absolutely true that the systems that we are currently re-qualified for irrigation have so far been exclusively used for dehydration and flood control purposes. All the valves that can be rebuilt today were already raised at the beginning of this year to increase water retention. As a result, this retention was increased by 1%. We hope that these short-term actions, because we have three areas of action: short-term, medium-term and long-term, so those actions that are expected to end within a few months, i.e. the reconstruction of valves, jazz and flow devices, will increase this retention by another percentage, but this is still at 6,58%. This is absolutely insufficient, but these are ongoing actions that will certainly ease the situation with regard to agricultural areas, because today we are fighting primarily to maintain groundwater levels. The groundwater is at the nominal level. It's not a significant drop. Of course, it varies, in most cases it will be dependent on resources and river level, and therefore trough retention, the valley that has now been introduced, is particularly important for agricultural areas. It is 650 investments, which in each voivodship will be carried out on watercourses, drainage ditches and ditches, which are under the responsibility of Polish Waters. They're supposed to end in a few months. This is the amount of 550 million, which is intended primarily for the maintenance of watercourses, including 150 million - mainly for the modernisation and construction of new valves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, long-term actions, i.e. a programme for the development of retention and specialization. I think that here the Member will have the chance to vote in favour of this law, which endures any kind of tightening, with farmers already today able to build tanks of up to 1 000 without a water permit. m3 at any point up to a depth of 3 m. This is therefore an absolute impact on green areas. A programme to finance the construction of deep-water wells: sharpening will also be taken off by a specialty which is designed to accelerate and, above all, to reduce bureaucratic burdens, to influence local government influence when it comes to building not only tanks, but also the whole retention, because it is also related to the construction of water grades, this microretency, as well as a large, or for example transforming the tank in Raciborz into a wet tank, because for us it is amazing why all the tanks of our predecessors were built in a dry trend. Therefore, all tanks will be retrained to wet tanks. This process is due to end in 7 years, which is why there is a special act, which is currently under the Council of Ministers, so that this process can be completed within 7 years. And the last program, the program is "Stop Drying!" which is the continuation of this action... I just wanted to point out, Minister, that not only did you pass the time, you still took the time of the other ministers, so please get to the conclusion, and we will try to listen to the others as well. Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk: Mr. Marshal, one sentence, I'm almost done. The programme for the development of retention by 2050 aims to increase water retention to 30% in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u168	Thank you very much. I think it would be okay if, despite the fact that the time has already been exhausted by Minister Gróbarczyk, the other ministers will be given a period of one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I do not think that we should use demagogic arguments on such a serious issue as drought, water scarcity, especially for agriculture, that there is no money for investment. EUR 100 million for the modernisation programme of agricultural holdings, for action: hydration, these are facts. 100,000. The farmer can get $100,000. PLN can be given for the construction of a new one, for the extension of the existing one, and, as Minister Gróbiarczyk said, we have now extended the call to 20 July for those who have not been able to obtain any kind of consent so far. These bureaucratic barriers have been removed and the deadline for possible submission of these documents has been extended. It's certainly not a one-year job. It's a long time, and a single farmer can't do it. This is why it is about farmers' cooperation, which is why it is working to get water companies involved so that farmers can invest together. With regard to the payment of drought compensation, in the case of which there is a lot of demagogy, how can we say that we do not deal with billions? Of course, we are not concerned that the state in 2015, a very difficult time, 400 million paid out (Dawn), in 2018 - 2 billion, in 2019 - 2 billion 300 compensations were paid, and already paid for today, on 30 April, we have 1150 million. Also this year 280 million... Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Kaminski: ...was paid in April 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u170	I ask you to take the floor of Minister Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the information, on behalf of the Ministry of Climate, I would like to inform the High House of what I have already announced in advance, answering the questions asked by the Members in the context of the current questions that have been asked today... The activities of the Minister of Climate Affairs focus on small retention or such a policy aimed mainly at cities in this area. Such a strategic document, which was drawn up last year, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2019, is the state's environmental policy until 2030. It results from specific strategic directional actions. Under this policy, the Ministry of Climate, among others. developed a project to adapt to climate change in cities above 100,000. residents with 44 largest cities in Poland. We have come up with concrete proposals for action and investment. The new programme of the National Fund for the Environment and Water Management (NAP) s, adaptation to climate change and mitigation of environmental risks, increases the emphasis on promoting and implementing actions related to adaptation of climate change and water management. Action on green and blue infrastructure has been identified. Actions have been identified to prevent drought and floods and to increase retention in ecosystems in non-urban areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry of Climate has also provided funds under the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area, so-called. Norwegian measures. This year, Minister Michał Kurtyka signed an agreement just under this international mechanism, providing funding for projects within PLN 1.5 billion for the entire programme in the longer term. March 13th this year The minister of climate announced a competition for the selection of proposals for local government units at the level of nearly PLN 100 million, exactly that is 23 029 thousand. EUR 413, at the rate, of course, per zloty. These are funds for projects with a minimum value of up to 500,000. EUR up to a maximum of 2,300 000 the euro for a single project. Once again, on the occasion, I can turn to the public, as well as to the mayors, mayors, presidents, local government units, as well as to the districts, to use this mechanism. The call for proposals lasts until 15 June this year. I think that green infrastructure, blue infrastructure related to water retention in urban areas, is a very important issue concerning water management, so that I encourage local government units to be active. Thank you very much. Not enough time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak again? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice. Remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u173	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The subject is very important because we have a third year of drought in a row, probably this year's drought will be special, because it starts in winter, starting early in spring. This rain is missing, this water is missing, but listening to the applicant's Member, I smiled a little in my spirit, because the applicant said that Kosiniak-Kamish was the first to say about drought. Mr Komorowski did not say PSL first, because PSL, we remember, was in the coalition with the Platform when President Komorowski said that the water had it to itself that it first rains and then flows into the sea and then evaporates and rains back. And here there were no programs that were used to stop water. The same was true of PSL in the coalition when Prime Minister Cimoszewicz said that Poles should cover themselves and not count on state aid from the disaster. Here, Mr Kamish, I think this is just about the election campaign because Mr Kosiniak-Kamish is running for president and you just want to bring it up. If you are talking about symbolic assistance, I would like to point out that 400 million have been paid in your governments under the rule of law and justice in 2018 - 2 billion 250, will be paid in 2019, because of Coronavirus not yet paid everything, 2 billion 300. It's big money and they went directly to every farmer. But there are other programmes: irrigation, which you spoke of by the Minister, but also, Mr applicant, lime, which you have often promised, and Law and Justice have introduced it. In order to stress how important water management is for the Law and Justice, we have separated the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. I still want to honor the man who has always fought for drought and talked about water management - it is Professor Jan Szyszko, who has always talked about it and has always signaled that there will be a problem before us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you never wanted to listen to him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u174	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Ionski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u175	Thank you. Wait a minute, sir. We will try to give the Member the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is very sad to say that something terrible is going to happen if the government fails to present and implement an effective programme to combat drought. A little today, this government fight against drought looks like the question of the famous keel under the new ferry that was about to arise. I think Minister Grabaryczyk knows what I'm talking about. The ferry has not yet been built, and the shipyard only exists theoretically. The fight against the drought of Mr Morawiecki's government looks exactly the same, only theoretically. We are becoming a desert in the centre of Europe. Absolutely, there's a full agreement on that. Poland dries up, Vistula reveals the bottom, Biebrzański National Park burns, every day they burn, go with smoke hectares of forests. That's all we know, it's happening here and now, and it's not a distant future. However, it is very frustrating that there are no concrete effects of the current government. I thought that today, in this debate, the Minister of Agriculture will appear, who will be able to say what he has done over the past year. The Minister isn't here. He's probably busy campaigning for President Duda. Let me remind you that in 2019 the Minister said these words: We focus on two aspects. First, how to compensate farmers for their losses, second, how to prevent drought. Let's take a look at what compensation for losses has been like since 2019. In September 2019, already then, the Minister said, whatever, we will pay 2, 3 billion to farmers. There's been nothing done about it in seven months. After 7 months, April 22nd, on TVP3 Regions, the Minister said: I deliver good news, the money will be paid. Ba, President Duda even appeals to the government that it is necessary to pay out, because this is absolutely fundamental. The next few days are coming, and the Minister announces that he will pay only part of the farmers, because most farmers are not. This is the real fight against drought and payment to farmers who deserve this money. I only have one question because the Minister and the President are sending letters in which one praises the other, the other praises the first. In fact, farmers only piss it off. I have a question, specifically: What does the government want to do to stop the water? What are you gonna do? I'm gonna need that information in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u176	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u177	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Poland awaits a drought of the century. Robert Biedron, the candidate of the Left for president, has long warned about this threat. Back in the day, politicians laughed at his warnings. Nobody's laughing now. Ha, ha, ha! Climate change and poor water management have led to a water crisis and cyclical droughts. Lack of sufficient rainfall, rapid water flow, insufficient retention, logging of trees, concreteing of cities are the main causes of the current state. Further absence of precipitation and high temperatures will aggravate the catastrophic situation. There are already record low river states observed today. The situation could be even worse than last year when water rationing was needed in some regions. The problem is structural and long-term, and it is therefore necessary to take comprehensive, long-term action and investment to counter the disaster. Swallow appeared: in September 2019 by Resolution No 92, the Council of Ministers adopted the assumptions for the "Programme against water scarcity" for the period 2021 to 2027 with a view to 2030. However, it has already been nearly 10 months since the adoption of the plan, and this programme has neither been created nor even been developed. Yes, the assumptions are insufficient, but the programme should be adopted as soon as possible before it is too late. Minister! How much time do you need to create this program? When will you proceed with it? Instead of dealing with the election, start seriously with this environmental disaster. It is not enough just to talk about a small retention, you need to start solving the problem of drought in a comprehensive way as soon as possible. Does Law and Justice really want to be called pandemic and drought from now on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. As a question, Mr. Marshal? Speech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u179	The Minister spoke about the Rural Development Programme, so it would be worthwhile for the Minister to clarify to everyone present in the Chamber and, above all, to Polish farmers listening to this debate, but also to examine it before the Internet, what it looks like to have proposals for the Rural Development Programme. Because as we know, it seems, not more than 25% is an allocation of resources for action: modernisation, so this is one of the worst indicators in Europe, in the European Union, in terms of use. With regard to action: the elimination of natural disasters to prevent and mitigate the effects of droughts and other phenomena, the indicator is less than 10% I think it's 9%. Please also reply, Minister, if the action: irrigation is so attractive for Polish farmers, how many of these several million commodity holdings in Poland, 1,5?2 million farms, have benefited from this action, because we have information that less than 1 000. So if all these activities are so attractive, they are so well prepared, then one should ask why farmers are so naive or, as the Minister of Agriculture often calls them, unprepared - he uses even more forceful words - that they do not want to benefit from this money. Or maybe the answer is that these programmes are bad, maybe these schemes are overly burdensome to farmers, maybe these programmes require such permits that farmers are unable to obtain, or maybe as a result of these programmes, and maybe this country is perfectly numbered, in fact the balance will be beneficial for you, because as a result of the fact that the farmer will store water and then take it for irrigation, the Polish water farm will gain some influence, will get some financial resources for its activities? So don't underestimate the farmers, don't insult the farmers, because they know exactly how to use European funds, and if they see a danger to themselves, they simply do not make such proposals. So once again, in the form of a question, please analyse the Rural Development Programme and create actions that will be for farmers and not for any other beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u180	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Richard Bartosik, the Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u181	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! For the first time, the Law and Justice Government has introduced compensation for farmers related to the effects of drought in such a large amount. I would like to remind you that in 2015 the previous government proposed PLN 450 million to farmers. Today we pay billions of zlotys, which is more than five times more. Farmers are very pleased with their payments in 2018. In 2019 these payments were continued. The Government of Law and Justice like no government has ever been concerned about rural and agricultural problems. In addition to drought payments, we have more funding for agricultural fuels. All social programs go to the country as well. This current activity in the fight against drought is noticeable and incomparable with what was used under the Civic Platform and PSL. And for that I would also like to thank the President and the Prime Minister, because this is a great concern for rural and agricultural matters. The second aspect is the long-term retention programme. And here changes have been made to the Rural Development Programme. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the previous government - the Civic Platform and the PSL - dealt with these issues and why, when the measures from the RDP were much, much bigger, such changes were not made and such programmes (the bell) were not implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u182	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u183	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! You can't listen to this. The Prime Minister has said many times about the last eight years. For God's sake, are we in a period of pandemic and drought, another disaster that's affecting our country, and you're reaching for 8 years of civil platform rule? I'm glad you reached for it. It's just ridiculous today. How can you tell farmers all this? After all, the losses from the 2019 drought were estimated at more than 8 billion, while the allocated amounts were 2.3 billion. You've paid less than 1 billion. Polish farmers have not yet received compensation payments for drought from 2019 and what to say about 2020. They've been hit. How can a reliable Polish state be if the Government of Law and Justice does not pay compensation for 2019 based on decisions? What are you doing? I want you to focus on this. Even the aid has been suspended due to the amount of PLN 280 million of Coronavirus, as the Minister informs us. You can't do that. There must be legal certainty and certainty of the Polish state so that farmers can plan their own expenditure, especially during such a severe drought that threatens us. That's one thing. Secondly, in a situation as difficult as drought, we are dealing with resource management. Why has it increased almost twice between July and March 2020 - between July 2019 and March 2020 - the export of Polish wheat? Do you want to make us really run out of wheat this year because of the drought and we have to import expensive wheat? How to manage these resources? I have a question for you right now, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, because I understand that the Minister has not honored us with his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u184	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Scientific environments, environmentalists, hydrologists have been warning about the biggest drought in Poland's history for months. This is a big problem for farmers and a cause for concern for consumers, because we are facing a huge cost. If the current situation continues in the following months, this will have a very significant negative impact on the volume of domestic agricultural production. My question concerns the estimation of the losses caused by this year's drought. Does the Ministry of Agriculture prepare steps to assess and finance these losses and whether it is involved in preparing possible aid schemes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u186	Thank you very much, Member. Now please take the floor to ask Mr Jarosław Rzepa, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have a first question for the Minister of Agriculture. What does decency and vocabulary mean to him? Because the speaker said that farmers had submitted drought applications last year by the end of November. It's April 30th, ladies and gentlemen. I will say to the former Prime Minister: this money belongs to them, you have deceived them at this moment. Second thing. What happened at the farm advisory centers? Until now, the chairmen of the committee to estimate losses have been the employees of the farm advisory centre. Have you released all the people who had anything to do with agriculture and hired sociologists? They're supposed to be community workers now. You want to take responsibility for the communes? I'm asking you to return to the previous solution. Minister! How many new meteorological stations have completed the network that IUNG supports? It's been three years. Very specific question: How many new meteorological stations have completed this grid? Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Ministry of Climate, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Agriculture - everyone will look at the second and nobody will be guilty. Try to answer me how we will create a coherent water retention programme in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! What did the Polish Waters do? What investments have been made in flood prevention, Minister? Because it's not only a topic of retention, but we have to talk about flood prevention all the time. Why did the Ministry of Agriculture reduce funds for insurance subsidies? I'm not talking about seed subsidies anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Agriculture does these things? Minister! Topic: Międzyodrze - very well known to you. You took 80 million zlotys from Międzyodrz, right where we could increase retention. That's a very well-known subject. Unfortunately, you can't answer that in any way until now. The question is very practical, [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning the present time. Poland boasts that we have 12 billion excess exports in agriculture. Today, agriculture is frozen. How will the Polish Minister of Agriculture secure the potential of agricultural production of our farmers? Please answer this question in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u188	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Frederick Kapinos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in a remote form. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u189	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! Drought is a problem that has affected our country for many years and has been spending sleep with farmers, but also the rulers. That is why I would like to ask three specific questions about helping farmers in this difficult time for them. First question: What is the state of implementation of aid to agricultural producers due to drought last year? Second question: What changes are foreseen in the work of the committee assessing the losses caused by drought this year? Third question: Are there low-interest loans available at banks for agricultural producers to resume agricultural production after disasters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u190	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The record drought combined with the record high temperature that meteorologists are announcing this year and which notabene is not surprising to us - because, Minister Grobierczyk, it did not start yesterday, it started much earlier, you seemed surprised by the scale of this drought - this year it will result in very serious fires. Last week alone, 6,000 burned as a result of a tragic fire. ha Biebrza National Park, including thousands of animals and birds belonging to rare species. Too little fire department resources were involved in putting out the fire. On the culminating days of the fire, last Wednesday, it was declared contained, even though both the surface of the fire and the line of fire continued to grow. At the time of the culmination of the fire, the length of the fire line was approx. 24 km, which accounted for a total of only 320 PSP rescuers, TSOs, WOTs, park workers. The area covered by the fire was 4600 ha at the time, which means that one lifeguard had 14 hectares of fire, which was mainly extinguished by silencers, i.e. shovels. So it's a huge fire, and it's a small number of rescuers. Fire-fighting planes, too small and insufficient, were lent to us by the State Forests company. Hence my question. I want to believe that we're prepared for this kind of fire this year. Are the volunteers and the State Fire Departments prepared this year, and how? Do these formations have the right number of units? Do these units have a full personnel cast? Are they currently equipped with hardware? Are their resources sufficient in view of the scale of the fire hazard that awaits us? What number (the Bell) of fire-fighting aircraft do they have? I will ask, because there is no response from the ministers to these questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u192	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the way in which we work and manage this problem, namely drought, governance by government and local government. Much is said, namely, about how a severe problem for Polish agriculture, for the whole country, for citizens, for inhabitants of particular regions is drought. But I would be interested in the government developing, in cooperation with the local government, comprehensive programmes for combating and tackling drought. Because things are different in different regions. This may sound like a cliché, but let the situation in Kujawy and Eastern Wielkopolska serve as an example. It is an area of extremely agricultural, plagued with very severe drought. This condition is getting worse, and its causes are different and certainly different than e.g. in southern Wielkopolska. Our response, administration and local government, and government, should be to develop a comprehensive programme dedicated to this region. I do not doubt that these areas affected by drought are much more. So I ask the question: Is this kind of government approach imaginable and practiced? I mean to develop many different regional sectoral programmes aimed at eliminating or reducing drought problems in specific regions - not at all, not always, not everywhere, not for everyone, but specifically for Kujaw, for southern Wielkopolska, for the Sieradz region, etc., etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u194	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to start with an apology, an apology to MEP Krzysztof Jurgel, because I often said publicly that he was the worst minister in Poland's history. That's not how it turned out. His successor came, who turned out to be a preacher and showman, who knows how to advise: advises farmers on how to grow, advises counselors on how to advise, advises officials on how to deal with applications, but does not follow any further. As before it looked in many offices, it looks tragic today. As regards the issues raised by the Minister, instead of dealing with drought, instead of dealing with the effects of Coronavirus, he calls farmers idiots, tells them to sow the fields in February, attacks the best dairy cooperatives for bringing milk from Lithuania - it turns out that it is organic milk in small quantities, which is lacking in Poland - while defending pathology in Bielsk Podlaski, in the dairy cooperative Bielmlek managed by the previously acting Secretary of State in the government of Mr Morawiecki, who is called Tadeusz Romanczuk. This gentleman is always cheating, lying, being here at a meeting on the agricultural committee, not telling the truth at the meeting. What's next with the price of the living? Why are cereals sold at the moment when... But we're talking about drought. It's a preparation for this case, for the effects of drought, ma'am. Prices... It is difficult to reach the fields in Lithuania, farmers cannot reach, even sow these fields, and the minister explains that this is a decision of the Lithuanian Government. When will the outstanding drought aid be paid for 2019? After all, (the bell) today you have to think about how to secure producers, farmers who are involved in plant production, but also in some way animal production, because this is a feed base for animals. And to conclude: When will the Minister actually start helping farmers? Because so far, he is implementing one single program, a program called "Socha+": he will cure Polish agriculture. I can't say he's plowing, or I'd offend the plow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice, in a remote version. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers... Well, not many of them. Gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! What messengers? I am a little nervous because unfortunately I must refer to the scandalous speech of Mr Krajewski. It can already be seen that PSL politicians do not care about farmers, but only about policy making. It's too bad it's happening. Gentlemen of Ministers! Thank you for the programmes presented, which are being implemented, especially as regards irrigation. This programme was already introduced in 2019 but there were some formal restrictions and it is good that these formal restrictions have now been withdrawn. There are also programs presented by Minister Grabierczyk, PLN 150 million for the construction of new valves. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think these programs, as the Minister said, will last a few months, and the sun, the drought... As you can see here at my window, the sun shines very much. There is a need for action to be taken immediately. So that's the idea, and the farmers were asking me to put these valves on the drainage ditches right now. Farmers know best where the water will gather, where it is best to do so. And maybe in such an emergency mode, before they even start those programs that may take a few months, and as I say, drought is outside the window, in the fields, maybe we can consider this possibility. I would ask that the ministers refer to it so that, without such formalities, in emergency mode, such valves are placed on the drainage ditches. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u198	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By the way, where are the ministers, where is Minister Ardanowski? There are over 100 ministers in the government. I don't see a government here. [[Applause]] What do you mean? There it is. How many ministers are there? Where is Minister Ardanowski? Four in the O.R. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2020 is another year in which Poland has been affected by a drought which has a direct impact on the health and life of Poles, on agriculture, on the environment, on the cost, but also on the economy, including the production and price of electricity. 70% electricity in our country is produced by coal power plants. Some of them, like a power plant in Kozienice, use water from the river, Kozienice - water from the Vistula, whose condition is catastrophically low, as the Minister said, about 40 cm. The power is running out, because today the water state in the rivers is very low. What do the power plants do? They reduce the production of electricity, which can in fact lead to the shut-off of the electricity to users. The year 2019 was the next year in which Poland imported a record amount of electricity, mainly from its neighbours, and it was 11 TWh. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Poland is affected by pandemics and droughts. We fight for the economy, entrepreneurs fight for survival. Cutting off water and electricity for entrepreneurs and the economy is a blow they won't pick up after. How did the government take care of our country's energy security? Why hasn't there been any water retention to cool down the power plants, the gas power plants in our country so far? As usual, the government will say that it has taken care of, as was the case with (the bell) of Coronavirus. We already know that's not the case today, because that's the power we're running out of. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We demand firm action in this area, in terms of water retention, to cool energy blocks. Otherwise it'll be too late as usual. Government smart after damage, and Poles will pay a very high price, including the price of electricity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u200	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to ask Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. PSL. Did the Member want to say something about this? You're welcome. PSL - Coalition Polska. Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Here in this Chamber, it is said that it is the PSL Members who practice politics. I would like to say one thing: it was Minister Jurgiel who wrote the following letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki: 350,000. farmers have applied for a drought grant of 2 billion 300. They were paid for 135,000. Ninety-one thousand. farmers received aid, as Minister Ardanowski said, in April, but the remaining 127 thousand. farmers and an amount of 1 billion. And that's 127 grand. farmers are asked when the Polish State will pay them compensation. This letter was sent by Minister Jurgiel, former Minister Jurgiel to Prime Minister Morawiecki. No politics. Another thing that's very important. EUR 78 million of de minimis aid is foreseen for this year. How do you imagine this 78 million euro, in terms of PLN 4.50.350 million, that this will cover this year's drought? That's not gonna happen. Another thing that is not done and is in the budget of 2019 is seed subsidies of 125 million. The budget was balanced. We have all voted in favour of the sustainable budget, and 125 million are missing from seed subsidies from 2019. The aid for lime - there is no. Ladies and gentlemen! Someone here said today, I don't know that melioration, that we lost that water because of the melioration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will say this: meliorations are treatments aimed at sustainable improvement of agricultural soil production capacity. And if we do not build - what Minister Kaminski said - valves on ditches, we will not raise water levels in lakes, we will not make retention tanks, there is no chance that we will improve soil capacity. We should not collect water by converting it into square meters, but into cubic meters when it comes to the depth of Polish soils. We need to change our thinking about the depth of Polish soils. It's about counting in cubic meters. We have 100 retention tanks, and the Spanish have 2,000. We're collecting 6.5%. rainwater, the Spanish collect 45%. Where are we? We should definitely implement the programme. If we're talking about a little retention program, I agree with him. It's a very good program, only last year, i.e. in 2019, there were 700 applications and this year there is a call until 20 July. So when are we going to implement this program if the call is up to July 20th? Then there will be training advisors in ODR, training in the case of recruitment of these advisors. In what time will we implement agricultural investments? In the fall, in the winter? Let us answer the fundamental questions about what we are doing. I'm sure the actions are very delayed. Mr. Marshal, last sentence. The most important thing right now is drama in poultry. Drama. Farmers cannot give up chickens, chicks are carbonated, hatching eggs are disposed of. There is a need for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture in the field of poultry, because this department of the economy, which accounts for 50% export of Poland, will go bankrupt. Of those thirty few billion 50% is poultry. That's why I have a request for a colleague of Telus to call an emergency committee. There are three days of sitting next week. Yeah, but there's no point. The point is KGW. That's why I'm calling for it. We're gonna file this motion to deal with poultry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u202	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak a question. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u203	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Not without a smile on my face, I listen to how PSL Members today say that they care about solving problems of drought or the fate of Polish farmers. It so happens that Polish farmers have excellent memory and well remember the 450 million PLN they received to support during the drought from the government of PSL and Platform and twice over 2 billion PLN of support from the government of Law and Justice. Minister! The problem of drought also affects farmers in my region, Kujaw and Dobrzyn land. In my conversations with farmers, it sounds like they appreciate the support they have received so far from the Government of Law and Justice, not just in a drought situation. They also look with great hope at planned and implemented hydrological solutions, including the planned construction of the water level in Sierzewo below Włocławek. This is a long-awaited investment, a strategic investment from the point of view of rational water management, and also from the point of view of maintaining the water balance, especially in situations where there is no rainfall for a long time, which threatens to cause drought. Minister! My question from Kujaw and Dobrzyńska Land: At what stage is the investment in the construction of water level in Sierzewo below Włocławka? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u204	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the question of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! You're getting less and less. I'd like to ask a question to Minister Grabarczyk. I want to start by reminding you that PiS is in charge of seven years, even though I'm on a break, but I'm gonna be asking you about the last five years. You told the minister that you're switching water management from drainage to irrigation, which is irrigation. I would like to ask in this context whether such irrigation is a great program of building large gutters and converting Polish rivers into these gutters, so that they can drain water to the Baltic Sea faster. Flooring, straightening, concreteing, construction of channels, the channel Odra - Danube, the Silesian Channel and others, only for the purpose of accompaniment. And what are you gonna blow off with them? Or is it coal from Colombia? Are you gonna turn down the grain for the export that you're selling right now? There will be no bread flour for Poles. And I would like to ask what is the cost of existing activities related to sailing Polish rivers in this context. How much did it cost to build big tanks that drain and not irrigate the soil? And how it is planned, but not yet spent 150 million on small retention. How much have you spent so far on these big slogans and political projects? In reality, none of them exist. And I also want to ask you where Minister Ardanowski is, who cares so much about agriculture and drought in agriculture. I understand he's campaigning with President Duda, but Minister Grybarczyk is campaigning with President Duda, and yet he is, and he's bragging about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! As if there weren't enough coronavirus, we still have a drought, and it's been another year in a row. In fact, we do not yet know what the effects of this drought will ultimately be. And in the spring, rain is needed just like no time of year. Most people talk about compensation for drought, but compensation is one thing, and prevention of drought is another. I was pleased to hear what Minister Grybarczyk, Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister of Agriculture, said about a small retention. I live in Lower Silesia. These are land, land recovered. I remember how it was said that German melioration devices improve water management. Fields were drained, were meliorative ditches, which were cleaned by farmers each year. The fields were also by the main roads, and by the roads of the field. And today, when I go to the country where I live, I see that when it rains, the water stands, and when it's dry, it all dries up on concrete. I would like to ask the ministers a question about the programmes presented here, at which stage they are being implemented and how much money has already been spent. The next question is irrigation. What's the field area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] is covered by irrigation and melioration? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u208	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! I would like to say: ministers, but I understand that electoral time is expensive, so there is no Minister Ardanowski. Hence the question, where is Minister Ardanowski. We know that he founded a partnership with President Duda, they drive around the country and make the Duda & Ardanowski elections. Mr. Ardanowski, this place is waiting for you here today. But that's not the Minister of Agriculture's information. Please don't disturb me. You should answer our questions. [[Applause]] Thank you all for the password, paraphrasing the famous Prime Minister: farmers simply deserve this money. Exactly. 1 billion zloty, which has not been paid, is due to them. And Minister Ardanowski is running an election campaign. Only in the last 3 years, due to weather anomalies, mainly droughts, please countries, losses in agriculture, according to estimates of your voivodships, amounted to PLN 15.20 billion. Each time, the government promised farmers wealthy compensation, even after 1 000. zł from 1 ha, and that was the end of it. Farmers did not receive adequate aid after the drought in 2018, the worst in 30 years, as they did not receive it after the disaster in 2017. Nor do they receive it today, although this help is simply due to them. The damages are inadequate to the losses. Question. $1,000. zł from 1 ha so-called. The drought is the sausage that PiS feeds farmers during the next election campaign. To this day, we have not learned how many farmers have received 1 000. zł from 1 ha and on what number of hectares. In total, damages related to the effects of drought in 2017 and 2019 are five times lower than the value of the damage caused by drought. According to the GUS, income from farm work (Dawn) from 1 ha of conversion in 2018 fell by PLN 700 compared to 2017. The result of the lack of action by the PiS government is that the Polish village is bankrupt and the government, instead of paying farmers compensation that they deserve, proposes to borrow further loans, which is praised by the Minister of Agriculture. Nor is the PiS government implementing any retention investment that would soon minimise the effects of drought. For 4 years all the necessary actions have been still in the phase of projects and promises. PiS has no money for farmers who suffered as a result of drought, but between 2017 and 2019 700 million PLN was spent on prizes in institutions under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. The heads of the agricultural agencies and the KRUS have been raised by 1/3 within 4 years. In this situation, the public question must be asked: When will the loose conduct of the wretched, oligarchic power of the PiS end, and when will you take care of what is due to farmers: compensation and payment of the outstanding billion? And to answer the question about RDPs, I ask you: two calls for the RDP programme for farmers, one call from 25 September to 20 November, 622 proposals. Which ones have been considered? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u210	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier a question. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The year 2017 passed under the sign of war for the Białowieża Forest. It was not a war for nature conservation, but it was a political chase against the government and its minister of the environment. Today, 3 years later, the Coalition for the Białowieża Forest calls for action that was blocked in July 2017. This is the aftermath of the Biebrza fire we witnessed last week. This is because now activists are loudly demanding human interference in the Białowieża Forest, demanding action to protect against fires, i.e. clippings of dry trees and building a small retention. No, no, they're demanding non-watering. Where's the story of the original forest? Where are we talking about protecting natural processes? Where's the password: let him play? Have all these arguments been forgotten now? I would like to ask you ministers to address the current action of activists regarding the Białowieża Forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Drought is neither new nor surprising, because we have been struggling with it for several years and this is the obvious effect and climate crisis, and the terrible management of water resources in Poland. Drought will touch, as we know very well, dramatically farmers, forests, industry, energy and just all of us. There may be difficulties in securing basic food needs of Poles and Poles, food prices will rise, many farmers will be bankrupt. The government isn't prepared... Member, why don't we wait a minute, because... I'm sorry. Thank you, Member. The government is not prepared, but we, citizens, citizens, want to prepare for this crisis. Hence I ask: How does the government assess the consequences? What will the consequences of drought for Poland be this year and in the following years? I'm asking for a specific list of these consequences. I understand you're prepared and you can say that. Are there concrete calculations of the costs of extinguishing fires, compensations and subsidies for farmers? What will be the price increase? How will this translate into expenditure of every Polish woman and every Pole? What will be the costs of bleach, the costs for industry, for agriculture? Will the cities run out of water? If it doesn't, how do you estimate which cities it's going to be? Are you planning on restricting water intake? Any decisions for consumers, for industry, for individuals, for energy, for agriculture that will reduce water intake? Maybe some educational action that tells you how to save this water? Will there be any bans, warrants? Ladies and gentlemen! We must act here and now, therefore I ask for an answer from both this speaker and in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u214	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Polak. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u215	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As we all certainly notice, the warmer and almost snowless winters, as well as the rising high temperatures from year to year have led to a significant decline in water levels, both ground and river. This is an important threat to our economy, especially for Polish agriculture, which will result in the cost of food production, and thus also prices, having to rise systematically. I think it's high time that other countries with warm climates, such as: Spain, which stops 40% rainwater, start intensive action for rational management of rainwater, which we are currently only stopping at 6.5%. That is why I wanted to ask: Is the government considering the need to accelerate the implementation of small and high retention programmes or water investments aimed at halting larger amounts of rainwater or other solutions that minimise the increasing incidence of drought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When the epidemic was approaching, the government sold out the masks, and then the masks were made by councilman PiS. There's a drought today, there's probably a grain problem coming up, the government's selling this grain. It's not a government. It's a group of mutual interests. The question is, who's gonna make the money? [[Applause]] Water is running out in many places in Poland. It's not in the wells, it's in the shots, it's got problems with power plants, agriculture's up against the wall. And although most of us perceive this problem rather by the prism of water in the tap and not notice it on a daily basis, the drought in Poland is present in all its dimensions. According to the plan against drought, retention is expected to increase to 30% but not until 2050. Meanwhile, in the coming years the PiS will spend PLN 10 billion on propaganda in public media, and this is of course enshrined in the Act. About the same amount, 10 billion, plans to spend on the retention development programme. The question is: Does the government even understand the scale of the threat and the scale of the challenges facing you? We're running out of water, we're in permanent drought, and the PiS government is spending as much money on retention as it is on public media propaganda. That's probably why today the government represents Minister Grybarczyk, who is expert in propaganda. Minister, this is why I ask: What measures are planned for 2020-202022 for the renovation of retention tanks? Which tanks are they? To what extent? How long will the retention rate in these tanks be increased between 2020 and 2022? How many retention tanks do the government or Polish Waters plan to eliminate because they hear that such absurd decisions will be made? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many jobs are there, and what are the locations? Are other major infrastructure programmes planned outside the drought prevention plan? If so, what is it? And the question is: Does the government plan to work in the sola cascade and the Black Vistula reservoir? Those are the tanks where the water is, you can keep it. How much will this amount be, to what extent will these tanks be renovated? Please respond in writing. Finally, Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you to provide specific support for farmers farming in mountain and mountain areas. Under normal conditions, this management is extremely difficult, but during drought it is tragic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u218	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ministers! My colleague in this debate said a while ago that the opposition country was doing politics. I will say that it is much worse, because I think politics is something good, and you have used the current information about this very, very important topic - drought, loss, what can happen to us, not only farmers, but also every Pole - to sow anxiety and to speak false. At first, Mr Ardanowski was accused of talking about farmers: losers. The next Member said that the Minister said farmers were idiots. I haven't heard one of these words, but I heard exactly the expression of the minister coming from PSL when he talked about farmers - that he doesn't want to deal with losers. This was true of apples at the time. If we're talking about drought, let's remember how it's been for years. After all, drought has not been since then, it has not been since this year, and not even since 2018. She's been there before. The 2015 drought is memorable. In August, the Minister of Agriculture, who was then represented by the PO-PSL government, spoke. He said the losses would be billions. He announced that there would be 350 million subsidies, compensations, and then it increased a little bit. He calmed all Poles: don't worry, if there is no grain in Poland, we will bring it back because we have import agreements, so that there will be no problem. That was the attitude of the government back then. You're saying there's no money paid yet, compensation for the drought last year. I just wanted to point out that firstly, the deadlines for submitting applications were extended, and secondly, wherever there is a warring opposition in local governments (the bell) there were simply no committees appointed at all. And that's what happened in the area where I'm from. I heard from some wojewódz that it was not necessary at all, they said: there was no drought in our community. If you're talking about help, you're charging money, you don't recognize the billions that have already been paid by the government, I wanted to draw your attention and fully expose your hypocrisy. This year, the finance committee was working to move the applications from the reserve just to pay compensation. It was 280 million. With one voice, this money was transferred to compensation, because 26 Members of Law and Justice voted in favour of a shift, but the entire opposition, 25 Members, voted against the transfer of funds to farmers. And that money belongs to farmers, that's true. I am firmly convinced that this money will be paid because the Government of Law and Justice is fulfilling its obligations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u220	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! What do wise governments do during the global epidemic and in the face of the ever - nearest drought in decades? Are they selling grain stocks, or are they just increasing them to prepare for market shortages and rising prices? Wise governments gather grain to secure their citizens. And the Polish government? Unfortunately, he's doing the opposite. Export of wheat is now more than twice as high as export in Poland, if we compare this year to year. We have now exported over 2 million tons of wheat, 1 million tons last year. In the coming days, ladies and gentlemen, prices of flour and pasta in shops will increase by 15%. Pasta producers and bread producers have been writing to Minister Ardanowski about problems related to access to flour for a month now, indicating this problem. They don't get any answers. What happens to the import of grain into Poland? You must know that imports have fallen by 80% this year. So I ask why you allow such a great export of Polish wheat and whether the quick desire to profit send you the problem of rising prices, which Polish producers are facing, and in a moment Poles will be in stores. One more question: Does the National Agricultural Support Centre have grain reserves that will help the Polish grain industry? What quantities of grain reserves do we have and when will they be activated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u222	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's topic of current information is very important. It must be said that we are in a trial period in 2020 because we have two attempts: pandemic and drought. This is a special time which obliges the political class to make sure that the subject important to all Poles is not used politically. Unfortunately, today I do not know whether the State from PSL, the State from the opposition, is taking the problem of drought and water supply of Poles so seriously that it is today that this issue is being discussed, whether it is as it sounded in this Chamber. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish spoke, drew attention to the government. Mr. Biedron spoke. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. [[Applause]] Take it easy, please. You insult, you lie, you give half the information. This is unacceptable to the serious problems facing agriculture. Mr Maliszewski says that we insult, disregard farmers. I mean, the facts of the last... Minister of Agriculture only. I wrote it down because it really offended me. 5 years of rule of law and justice is care about the agricultural sector, that is credibility towards this huge professional group that contributes to our national income. These are more subsidies in all areas where you have also implemented these subsidies, because that was the possibility of the state budget, because that was government policy - more for insurance, more for drought compensation, more for fuel. Those are the facts. Of course, you couldn't do everything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] during this period. The whole problem of water management in a country where floods are present, and at the same time the lack of water, must be addressed in a comprehensive government programme. We need to get EU funding from the next perspective. Because this perspective that you have prepared in the EU funds, and the earlier one, where the water management was responsible for the retention of your marshals, you lost and missed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u224	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u225	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I'm going to ask for the support of local governments. The government is very keen to limit the resources available to local governments - the release of people under the age of 26 from PIT, the reduction of PIT - but this also affects the revenue of local governments. How do you intend to support cities in building retention tanks? It is not only a small retention, but also these larger retention tanks, also natural. What's that got to do with it? This is often linked to the purchase of private land. Does the government have such resources to support the local government, for example, on the so-called. Waver wheel? There is 50 ha right at the Warsaw border, which can be used for this purpose, but concrete measures are needed. Whether the government has that kind of resources and could it have m.s. To support Warsaw? Is there any means to protect Warsaw's water resources also through proper channel management? Does the government have such resources to support the actions of local governments? Ladies and gentlemen! You have made such a decision that there is a specific entity, there is a specific State Water Farm, called Polish Waters, which since 2018 is the main entity responsible for national water management. How does the company support the local government? Or even after the various accidents we had last year, among others. Ostrołęka power plant failure... Such a system of rapid warning of local governments (the bell) was to be created before such extraordinary, critical situations. Whether these activities are being carried out, or do you have other priorities that we are talking about, for example. We don't know? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u226	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u227	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fire in the Biebrza National Park, as well as the annual grass burning, especially in the context of the returning drought, is a great tragedy for fauna and flora and the waste of public resources. The costs of fire operations, e.g. In the Biebrza National Park, it's millions of zlotys. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it would be appropriate to launch a social campaign encouraging the actions of those who have drones. These are people who are passionate about taking pictures and videos using drones. It is in the public interest to encourage this group of people, of course near their place of residence, to monitor the places where grass burns every year. As a result, the police and fire department would have access to high quality evidence. Social pro-animal actions are developing in Poland at a very high pace, and cooperation between the city guard and the police with organisations or citizens is increasing. The same could be true for drone operators. We have a strong civil society. Therefore, I encourage the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to organise social action: drones for the environment. The cooperation of drone and service operators may be crucial to end the shameful practice of burning grass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u228	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u229	Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three plagues fell on Poland: irresponsible government of PiS, pandemic of Coronavirus, and now additional drought. We can handle the first two, but the drought can kill us. All governments have been guilty, but the present has sinned the hardest. When you apologize to Poles for 4 years of mindless cutting out forests and forests, developing coal power plants, buying coal everywhere, even in Colombia, destroying renewable energy, pretending to fight air pollution, making fun of environmentalists, for cutting ecology in schools from your educational program? Minister Ardanowski recently said that in Poland we have different climatic zones and drought will never affect the whole country. You'd rather spend your money on propaganda and election sausage, and your fake dryer program is still only on paper. No offense, but fools don't listen to scientists, they don't listen to what scientists say. Stop spraying poisons in the fields that cause insects to die. Give organic farming a chance. Don't concrete the riverbeds, invest in a small retention. Stop mowing lawns in state institutions, turn them into flower meadows, don't water them with drinking water. Drought is a war to the death. Today, the extermination ghost has looked into the farmers' eyes, but tomorrow it will hit the cities. If you do not do all this, you will not understand your mistakes, then you will only pray for rain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] With this prayer, it's a good thing, you have to pray too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u230	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that the time for asking questions has just expired, but if you do not mind, we would also give the opportunity to ask questions to those who have been enrolled. [[Applause]] Bravo! So now I ask you to ask Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have listened here today to many political manifestos by the opposition Members. Ladies and gentlemen, about the cremation of rivers - we know very well, I think we will hear here from the representatives of the Ministry of Water Management about the fact that there is a programme for the regeneration of rivers, because we need to repair what man once destroyed, and this is necessary. We also know very well that the Ministry of Water Management has a programme to combat water scarcity from 2021 to 2027 with a view to 2030, just being prepared in connection with the new EU perspective. My colleague Teresa Wargock here said that we did not have such records in the EU perspective, which is about to end. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as concrete is concerned, we've had to deconstruct some of the systems that worked before when it comes to building tanks of different retentions; I'm not going to mention people on your side who have been charged. Hence, it is a good idea - that an institution such as the Polish Water farm was created. The magnitude of the heirloom that fell on Minister Ardanowski today, which has been happening for several days, and on Minister Gróbarczyk, is completely unjustified, because you know perfectly well that the money from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is systematically paid to farmers, those for 2019 and we are already preparing appropriate measures for 2020 so that it can be paid out to farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. You won't hear it from any of our politicians like yours said before and they said this sentence: Sorry, that's the climate. It wasn't us. [[Applause]] We have different climate zones.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u232	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister of the Environment, who is not in this Chamber during this important debate! Today, again, we are talking about drought, drought, which is already one of the most important challenges we have to face, drought, which is beginning to occur earlier and earlier, year by year, drought caused by the climate crisis and bad water and forest management in our country. We are all afraid, above all, of drought in agriculture, of how it will affect food prices, but also of the existence of farmers and their families. But drought also applies to forests. The fire threat in Polish forests has been at a catastrophic level for weeks. Last week we were all very anxious to see the work of firefighters and volunteers and other uniformed services, their fight against the Biebrzański National Park fire. We have witnessed how quickly we can lose our national heritage. Unfortunately, such a story can also be repeated with the Białowieża Forest, about which the representatives of the coalition I love the Forest in the letter sent to the Minister yesterday. In this letter they demand the establishment of a crisis team for the fire protection of the Białowieża Forest as soon as possible and recommend four urgent measures to prevent another tragedy. Minister! You're not here, Minister! Are you going to listen to the voice of NGOs, put their demands into practice? Do you have a plan to prevent forest fires? [[Applause]] That's not what you said three years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u234	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Paul Rychlik, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! For decades, the Polish authorities, which included representatives of not any Polish Coalition, but of the Polish People's Party, did not take any action to restore water, store water. The Law and Justice Government has taken this issue seriously. There have been words here today about huge support for farmers, large programmes and investment in retention, However, attention should be paid to the changes that have taken place in the relevant institutions that deal with drought, water management and water management. I am thinking of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management in Warsaw, whose president is Dr. Przemysław Ligenza, who is very effective in fighting drought, works hard, which results in an increase in the number of precipitation measurement points. This is very important in the fight against drought to diagnose this phenomenon well. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question: What actions and decisions have been taken and what will the government take to remove bureaucratic barriers and finance for the construction of small tanks and large retention of both farmers and local authorities? I would also like to ask about a plan to counteract the effects of drought for 2021 and 2026 for the Łódź voivodship. At what stage are (the bell) preparatory work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u236	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You called for action from 1 January 2018. National Water Farm of Polish Waters. It was supposed to manage water resources. My previous speaker from Law and Justice said that you're introducing a program for renaissance. That's actually a lie. What the Polish Waters do in different regions is truly scandalous. Yesterday, Minister Grybarczyk was with President Duda at the Jazia near Piaseczno, where at the press conference he announced a program of small retention. And do you know what the little retention program looks like in practice? The Świętokrzyskie Voivodship is located just behind the Mazowieckie Voivodship. It was in this voivodship in 2019. Polish waters made so-called for public money. maintenance and maintenance work on about 30 watercourses. Last year, 3 km of the Stone River in Skarżysk was preserved. The river that was returning to its natural character looks like a canal again. The forest was recently cut over the tiny river Kacanka in the Pińczów district. This is ridiculous. Work was done in the Natura 2000 protected area, away from human settlements. On many kilometres of rivers beaver dams were demolished, coastal shrubs and trees were cut, stumps were taken out of the troughs, bushes and grass were mowed, vegetation was hacked. This is the renaturization of the rule of law and justice. That's what it looks like. In my region, the region from which I come, many environmentalists, journalists alarm and appeal not to destroy the nature that really wants to recreate and give us again, people, water. And you're doing the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen! What seemed right 50 years ago (the bell) is no longer right. Last sentence, Marshal. I will repeat the reporter who wrote the article from which the examples I quoted come. When are you really gonna stop making a pipe out of the river trough that looks like toilet pipes? 'Cause they're running faster today. That's where you bring the riverbeds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u238	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u239	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Behind us is the warmest winter, and before us is the warmest summer and the most severe drought in the history of measurements. Meanwhile, in Poland 94% The water from the precipitation flows to the Baltic Sea. If we don't follow in the footsteps, for example. Spain, which stores 45% rainwater, it may soon run out of water even to wash our hands, as in Skierniewice a year ago. Government programs don't pay enough attention to retention. Therefore, local governments such as Wrocław and Bialystok are introducing water retention programmes on their own. However, comprehensive solutions are needed, to which the government must give a clear impetus. I would therefore like to ask the question: Does the government intend to speed up the drought prevention programme? Is the government working on a rainwater retention scheme aimed at local governments and individual consumers? Not whether or not, but when does the government intend to ban lawn mowing and burning it? Each of us breathes the same air, each of us mostly consists of the same water, so this should be our common challenge. If you continue to ignore this problem and spend money on propaganda instead of retention, we will face a disaster of the environment, economy and society. How dare you accept Poland's stepping? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u240	Thank you, sir. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point in time, on behalf of the applicants, I would like to thank you very much for this discussion, which, even to those who are on average aware of agricultural matters, has brought the issue closer. The answers that we heard from ministers a few dozen minutes ago would qualify this information to be rejected if such a formula were even present, because they were not very precise and were moving more towards politicising this discussion. Some of the questions that Members have asked in particular from the Law and Justice were also due to the desire to convert this debate into a political debate, and that was not the intention. The problem is huge, the problem concerns all of us, especially Polish farmers, and when, if not during the drought, when it touches the most, talk about it? I am concerned that, unfortunately, this debate will also have great consequences in the form of decisions, because you have just accused us of only political intentions. When you applied for such a debate in 2015, there was no policy when we were proposing, and the drought rate today is several times higher than then, it is said that we are pursuing a policy. When President Duda is photographed against the background of drying crops and says that help will be given to farmers, there is no election campaign when Kosiniak-Kamish or other candidates are holding a conference and are addressing problems that affect farmers, there is already a policy, there is already an election campaign. So, realizing that this is an uncomfortable topic for you, because you have not fulfilled all your promises or fulfilled very little in terms of helping, preventing drought, I still believe that this debate was needed and that whatever the government will say next, it brings some value. I would also like to emphasise once again that the storage of rainwater itself is indeed a serious task and in this direction. I see positive changes, but it must be made clear that without stopping this water on the farmer's land, on the farmer's farm, not on the big river, not on the big lake, not on the big canal, we will not improve the supply of water. This water must be delivered to the plants, she must somehow reach these plants. It was said that the law on joint digging had improved a little bit. Indeed, it is, but this change is relatively small, because even a simple, simple application which a farmer must submit to dig up a pond contains a number of elements that he does not have on-site on his farm. He has to go to the office, he has to pull out the maps, he has to make a sketch, he has to confirm the right to this land and only then can he start digging such an object. There was a very interesting question about valves on the meliorative ditches. Well, the ministers will confirm that, by means of such a valve, you cannot supply water with ponds. This is forbidden. Such a pond can obtain water only from melting snow, from precipitation and soaking from the soil. So if these are sharpenings, then he will absolutely not be a pond to use to irrigate, and the farmer will only be able to grow fish there. And the next thing is the use of this water for production on the farm - it already requires all permits and operations. You can't pump this water as much as you want, because in this respect the procedure is already more complicated. And this is what causes, and the perspective of charging Polish Waters with collection fees, that this program lies, this program does not work. It is not only that there is not one positive conclusion, it is the few hundred or even a thousand on a national scale, on a scale of several hundred thousand farms, that there is minimal interest because farmers are afraid of such sharpening. Note how other countries do it. A country with a large agricultural culture is, for example, the Netherlands. Although its drought may be less concerned - the coastal country, a country in large part located in the area of depression, so there is water naturally stored, but the country cut with canals and a lock at the airlock that stops the water that is in these canals. I've had a chance to watch it many times. At such moments as today, the Netherlands, which does not have such a water deficit as Poland, is equipped with cannons that pour water even on cereal crops, not only on gardening crops, not only on other more complicated ones, but also on cereal crops. There are tractors with attached pumps, and on any of these tractors you will not find a counter to charge the farmer for the collection of this water. If we do not go in this direction, we will meet every year, discuss drought and accuse ourselves of political action. This is precisely the disregard of farmers - saying that if it is moving in the Sejm important for farmers, it is a policy. There's no politics in this. I would like to stress once again: unfortunately, what I have heard so far from both the ministers and the Members of the PiS who speak, including those who are on the Committee on Agriculture, does not give hope that the drought problem in Poland will be resolved this year or in the next perspective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u242	Thank you very much to Mirosław Maliszewski. Now it's time for the government to respond. I would like to point out this time that the 5-minute limit needs to be managed in a cost-effective manner. It would be good for Minister Anna Moscow, who will be the first to speak on behalf of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, to remember that after her the colleagues would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all the votes in the discussion and the questions asked. In this short time Let me refer to those I am able to comment on, as to the others, and we promise to reply in writing. Indeed, it is difficult not to refer to the past, but I think that the Member has explained this enough today. As you know, the prospect of preparing EU programmes, including water management, drought or flood-related programmes, is a 7- and 10-year perspective. Today we refer to the past, because we found individual operational programmes, both PO IiŚ and RPO, which we simply had to implement in the form in which they were adopted. Certainly water management was not a priority there, it is evident in terms of quotas. In particular voivodships, where there is drought, there are no investments, and drought, as you say, is not new - it was dry and it was known that it would be dry. These programmes are not implemented there because they have not been recorded at the stage of negotiating specific investments under specific programmes. As far as the individual programmes are concerned, Minister Grybaryczyk was passing on what was being carried out. I will once again allow myself to quote what is, and what is in these large programmes that will be implemented in the coming years. I don't know why there are voices all the time that they're just plans. We try to communicate this in a simple way. I think that the written reply will complete this information, and I would also ask you to read it in detail, because these programs are not only being prepared, but are also being implemented on an ongoing basis. Once again, there is 400 million PLN in the maintenance program of Polish Waters for this year. There's over $4,000 in there. tasks, e.g. These are tasks related to maintenance of retention tanks and small retention. As regards ad hoc measures for farmers, this is the programme that you noticed here yesterday, the President in Jazgarzew announced. This programme is ongoing, it is a programme for the formation of water resources, especially on small watercourses, which will allow to stop water and then effectively transfer it to the drainage ditches, to farmers. This is 645 investments, 150 million PLN, 32 million m A few sentences about renaissance. I keep wondering where you can see these rivers that Polish waters are concrete, because I haven't seen a kilometer. If there was such a kilometer of river, I would immediately ask for such information, where Polish waters laid concrete on the Polish river. I didn't. If Polish waters were given water law and environmental consent for such activities, it would indeed be scandalous. So I'm asking you to tell me where the concrete is on the rivers. I just wanted to say briefly that today, in European standards, we are forced by directives, which we are very pleased with, we use ecological materials, these are primarily stone bedspreads, fascins, rivers not being straightened out, we use the smart one and what is done by the Polish Waters on individual investments, these are the actions. It was a little difficult in this discussion to find out what exactly the demands were. Because on the one hand, nature wants to give water... I'd like to remind the Minister that there are 48 seconds left for the other gentlemen. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: I'm done. ...nature wants to give water - no investment is allowed. On the other hand, Polish waters, as you say, do not make investments. Here she presented a large list of Świętokrzyskie investments made by the Polish Waters. I don't know if we're gonna make this investment or not. With your head, with your head. These requests were quite inconsistent, I would say, so that we ask for a uniform position so that it can be addressed. From our perspective, investments are an essential element of water management, provided that they are integrated and not one-dimensional, like dry tanks, because this is the only example of this concreteing - Racibórz, and those tanks in the Kłodzkia Basin that have been concreted... Where's the concrete? I hope we can turn them into wet tanks in quick mode. Thank you very much. The rest of the questions will be addressed in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u244	This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. No, Mr. Marshal, there were political statements, and if the Minister has anything concrete to say... Madame, you know very well that I have warned you that the Minister should be able to manage time efficiently... But that's what we're waiting for. For the specifics, not the empty talk, which was the time. ... Because for this part... If you agree, we can allocate one and a half minutes to the other ministers, as before. Minister Moscow may not offend Members and shorten her speech to substance, not to invectives. Then we ask the Minister to leave the political layer on the side when he answers the questions. I just heard the specifics.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not repeat the information about the amounts paid and planned to be paid. All I can say is that the 280 million that the opposition didn't want will be very useful to us and 230 of these 280 million have already been paid out. The estimate of losses this year is certainly not going to be... It's gonna be different because we can't send thousands of people into the fields because we don't know what the situation is. Therefore, there will be no committee, only evaluation remotely. The question is how many stations. 300 new meteo stations have at their disposal IUNG plus support from the meteorology institute, plus radar support. In addition, we launch applications that have been prepared by the Ministry of Digitalization, through which you will be able to prepare applications. I still have to refer, Mr. Marshal, to these crop unrests, because this will probably interest all Poles. Let me repeat: In January, February and March the previous contracts, orders were carried out. We're lucky that the prices were elevated back then. The information that came from KOWR and our Department of Agricultural Markets says that today this export is inhibiting. And besides, the Material Reserve Agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] has enough flour to make it bread. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u246	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister Ireneusz Oda, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contacts. Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk, just do it. Thus from 2016 until now - PLN 2200 million from the programme, from PO IiŚ, the Operational Programme for the Infrastructure and Environment, in the agreements signed for water retention, for issues related to green and blue infrastructure and with green infrastructure. Another 100 million PLN in the Norwegian mechanism, which is currently in recruitment, I will remind you once again, until 15 June there is a call for proposals. The question by Mr Michael Szczerby, by the way water retention in large tanks for urban agglomerations, e.g. for Warsaw. And here I am referring the Member to the statement of the applicant, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. We should act, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Water Framework Directive, which requires us to conduct water management in the water catchment area, to secure water, to store, to retort in the water catchment area before this water reaches the main watercourses. Ms. Marty's question was "Citizen's Coalition." Madam President, I would like to say that I would like to reassure Mrs Kozienice. In 2018, 2017 a large investment was made in Świerzę Górne. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the water threshold for a large amount of flooring, water storage for cooling of Kozienice Power Stations. As far as the Ostrołęk plant is concerned, last year the bottleneck jazz was put into service in Narwi for 9 million PLN. In addition, there is a very large installation related to air cooling. It's about the big fans that will probably be given this year, in the second half of the year at the Kozienice Power Plant. We only have five coal-fired power plants that are cooled in open flow. The remaining large coal power plants are cooled in a closed circuit. There is no danger of blackout - I reassure Mrs Monica Rosa. As far as investments in PV are concerned, photovoltaics increased by 180% compared to last year. For imaging in 2015, the value of PV installations was 30 MW, and this year we will reach almost 2 GW of power. So that this is, ladies and gentlemen, a colossal progress. This, of course, is what we're not stopping at. We create legislative conditions so that the renewable energy sector can grow dynamically. It was also a question of how we intend to pursue a common policy in order to prevent the effects of drought. In the coming days an interministerial team will be set up, consisting of representatives, high representatives of the Ministry of Climate, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Maritime Affairs and of course the Ministry of Environment. We are already taking specific programme actions. It is also about securing funds for this purpose in the agricultural area, but also in the urban area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u248	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws (prints No 342 and 349). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Seym! I have the honour to present a report on the draft amendment to the Public Roads Act and some other laws, print No 342. It was the subject of work by the Infrastructure Commission yesterday, where the first reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws took place. The applicant's representatives presented in this draft its main objectives, objectives and benefits, which result from the proposed amendment of the law on the collection of tolls on national roads or sections thereof and on toll motorways which are currently managed by the Chief Inspector for Road Transport. In the assessment of applicants, the proposed project aims at simplifying the procedures for payment of electronic tolls for these roads. Therefore, in this assessment, which I am talking about, it will have a positive impact on reducing administrative burdens on the part of entrepreneurs while implementing modern technologies for charging and charging. The main objective of the processed change is to replace the existing radio technology for satellite positioning and data transmission technology with electronic toll collection. Such a solution is also in line with the recommendations of the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, which are contained in Directive 2019/520 on the interoperability of electronic tolling systems and the facilitation of cross-border exchange of information on cases of non-payment of road charges within the Union. The proposed law creates a legal framework that allows the use of commonly used electronic toll devices, notably mobile phones and external location systems for fleet management. Such solutions are already being applied by carriers in the SENT trading monitoring and transport system, which has been designed and implemented by the National Tax Administration. Currently, it is one of the most important not to say: key organs used by the administration. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The selection of modern satellite positioning and data transmission technology for electronic toll collection and tolls for motorways, as well as the solutions in the SENT system, justifies in the assessment of applicants the allocation of these fees to the head of the National Tax Administration. This will encourage consolidation of tasks in the area of collection of danin and charges and reduce the costs of the State Treasury related to the implementation of this system. High Izbo! The draft also provides for a number of transitional provisions aimed primarily at the smoothest possible and least burdensome change for carriers. The operation of the electronic toll collection system by the National Tax Administration shall be as submitted within the time limit indicated in the notice of the Minister responsible for public finances. In this notice, the Minister will also announce a date for which the possibility of acquiring and using current equipment, so-called, will be completed. OBU in this technology, which is currently used. The project specifies that the on-board electronic toll collection devices made available to users by the Road Transport Inspection will be able to remain in service until they are replaced by one of the three devices chosen by the user to be available. It is reasonable that the implementation of the electronic toll collection system by the National Tax Administration and the change in the technology used to collect the electronic toll are carried out in a smooth, flexible and as friendly manner as possible, enabling both systems to function during the transitional period. As I would like to stress, this was also the subject of the speech of the representatives of the government (the bell), the Minister of Rzeczkowska, the employees of the Road Transport Inspection, who so far dealt with the subject of road toll collection. They will be transferred to the office serving the minister responsible for public finances under unchanged conditions. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, just a minute and a half to finish my speech. There you go. The system is designed only for vehicles moving on paid sections, currently less than 4 000. km, and only vehicles subject to charge. Thus, after leaving the toll road section, the geolocation data of such a vehicle will not be processed. High Seym! The Committee on Infrastructure, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting yesterday, and following the legislative and editorial amendments - here a warm thanks to the legislators of the Legislative Office of the Sejm - has adopted this report proposing that the High Sejm adopt this submission, which is attached to the draft law. At the request of the applicants, the committee shall also submit proposals from minorities which are attached to the report. So thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would first ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft Law on Printing No 342 and 349. The adoption of the Act will serve to modernise the charging of public roads related to the carriage of motor vehicles. The electronic toll collection system currently in use requires the use of devices dedicated only to this purpose, as well as personal appearances using roads at the service point in order to complete documents and conclude a contract. Designed solutions include the introduction of a fully electronic service system and the reduction of public road responsibilities. The proposed legislative solutions envisage the introduction of newer technologies to be used by the electronic abbot collection system. The departure from the current radio technology for satellite positioning technology will entail savings both on the road side and on the part of the operators responsible for the charging system infrastructure. The first will not be obliged to purchase expensive on-board equipment. On the other hand, public finances will benefit from savings resulting from a reduction in the technical infrastructure needed to operate the system. According to the draft law, road users will be able to choose one of the three proposed tools for using the new system. In addition to the on-board equipment they will be able to adapt to the needs of the new charging system already used external location systems, so-called. ZSL, or even use other devices using a satellite positioning system, enabling communication with the charging system by means of a dedicated application. The last possibility minimizes the cost of being included in the system by road users. They will be able to use, among others. from tablets or smartphones. In addition, the entire process of registration of the user will take place using an IT system using the possibility of implementing data contained in the central vehicle register or the Central Register of Taxation Data. This will both have a positive impact on reducing the financial burden on users and will significantly simplify and speed up the registration procedure. The draft law also provides for a change in the competence of the Minister responsible for transport. It entrusts it with the implementation of state policy on electronic tolls and motorway tolls. He will be responsible, among others. for determining the directions for the development of the road network and the rates of electronic toll, carrying out analytical and forecasting activities in relation to the existence of the charging system. On the other hand, the task of collecting electronic tolls and tolls by highway would be taken over by the head of the National Tax Administration. This would consolidate administrative tasks in the area of collection of danin and charges and significantly reduce the costs of implementing the new system, as the experience and technical components of the systems used by the National Tax Administration could be used to build on it. The legislation currently under discussion by the High Sejm will make it easier for users of public roads and will at the same time be a source of savings both for users and for public finances. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill in its entirety. Mr. Marshal! I would like to make three amendments to you, which the Law and Justice Club brings to the bill now, at second reading. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u252	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the floor of Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u253	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! All the Members here, in the House, and those who participate in the meeting remotely! There's a pandemic going on. The world, also the Polish economy is in crisis, and PiS MEPs do not deal with the problem of Polish transport, how to relieve it in a difficult situation, how to support the circular transport industry, which plays a key role when it comes to the supply chain, so as to sustain the dying industry in front of our eyes, so as to maintain co-operation links, they only bring us to the Sejm bubel. It's a legal thing. [[Applause]] They're bringing in a bill that's supposed to strengthen the PiS police state. [[Applause]] We will not think about how to support Minister Adamczyk, who should be fighting right now to stop the mobility package, but how to push the Customs-Scarb Service, James Bonds, who should defend billions of Polish taxpayers, we will only send them on the road. They're gonna stop the trucks and see if there's any devices on that record the runaway episode. This is aberration, this is madness. [[Applause]] There's still a chance to stop this madness. The Civic Coalition proposes to reject this bill because it is harmful. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, this is a motion. However, if you wanted to pass this bill in your lap - because that's what you do as a rule - then let us remind you that in this bill you propose an increase in penalties for Polish carriers. Today, when we have a crisis, when Polish carriers need a helping hand, you raise penalties. Scandal! This is an outrage. It's a clipping. from the Polish press, which shows: it is today, and it will be so if this law with your ideas comes into force. Therefore, the Civic Coalition proposes not only to stop this madness, but also to reduce penalties. [[Applause]] And now I'm handing over these amendments. We also propose to eliminate from the system a provision that allows for the transmission of confidential information - information that protects Polish entrepreneurs, protects their economic success - to services without a specific, ongoing procedure. 'Cause that's an idea that's in the bill, too. [[Applause]] In the package of amendments also in this area We have proposed that this harmful provision be deleted. Let me say this: with good intentions hell is paved. In 2017, the Council PiS brought to the High Chamber a bill in which the system had been amended in such a way as to nationalise it, so that the company selected in the tender on the market would not carry out the collection of charges, but that the Road Transport Inspection would do so. And we have results. The Supreme Control Board has checked the effect of this maneuver. The objectives of preparing and implementing the electronic toll collection system after 2 November 2018 have not been achieved - I quote from the protocol. Prior to the entry into force of the law amending the Public Road Act, the administration did not acquire the knowledge and competence of the applicable charging systems. And now it's gonna be the same. It was supposed to be cheaper. The objective of reducing the costs of the electronic toll collection system has not been achieved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to information from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the maintenance costs of the viaTOLL system after 2 November 2018 increased by around 7.5%. And now it's gonna be the same because you can't be trusted. This will be to the detriment of the Polish transport industry, with which you have not even consulted these regulations. And you could have done it right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u254	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I would like to present my position and statement on the amendment of the Public Road Act. At first glance, this project looks quite innocent: a technical change in the electronic toll collection system, a technical amendment of the law. At least that's what you think after a calming tone of justification. But - and I say it with regret - you have accustomed us to always having to look at your hands, especially in the case of a project that at first glance does not raise doubts, and especially when it is submitted by a group of members of the governing party. Just like underneath the so-called coat. An anti-crisis shield. You're introducing massive budget redundancies, wage cuts and pensions cuts, and yet you have the audacity to call it a staff shield. It is no different in the case of this law, which introduces a truly destructive revolution in the toll collection system. First of all, you deliberately did not consult with any legitimate entity that was essential to the transport industry. I've been looking for any opinion or analysis on this. Nothing, nothing. Typical arrogance and the shoe of power - we know best, we do not need to advise. Secondly, this new, yet untested system will probably create a number of problems and errors. It's a system that will also track the user through mobile phones at all times. So what is the certainty of securing sensitive data, and who will manage it? Thirdly, at a time when it is so difficult, are we at the heart of the epidemic, many economic sectors have huge financial problems, companies are failing, and people are losing their jobs, you want to introduce untested solutions, killing the transport industry, which so far had to cope alone, without your help, grace and support? Fourthly, in many points of this law, you impose a number of thousands of sanctions for non-compliance with certain provisions. Here's $2.5,000, there's $3,000. - it's so easy for you to put it in your paragraphs. The penalty system is so extensive, as if you wanted to finish the transport industry at all costs. This is another tribute you're putting on people in crisis. Unless that is your way of balancing the budget - the cost of the crisis is passed on to entrepreneurs and employees. Fifthly, quite recently, on 20 April, on the website of the Main Road Transport Inspectorate, to which these competences are taken, an announcement has been published concerning the provision of advisory services for the construction, implementation, operation and development of the National Payment Collection System. So what's it like, Minister? Sixthly, I would like to quote a few significant sentences just two years ago: ensuring continuity of the service tasks of the National Toll Collection System, greater flexibility of the system, optimization of its operating costs and increased security of sensitive road users data - these are the main objectives of transferring tasks from the General Director of National Roads and Motorways to the Chief Road Transport Inspector. This is what the then and present Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk said in January 2018. So what happened that such remarkable recommendations no longer have any value today? They say good is the enemy of better. If the Road Transport Inspection has proven so well in toll collection, then why make it more difficult? Why put more tributes on the transport industry that's gonna have trouble getting out of a massive collapse anyway? Why put more loads on it, but still formal law? And finally, after seven, there is no mention in this bill of protection of employees whom you are forced to transfer to the National Tax Administration. What guarantee do they have that none of them will be fired or have a reduced salary, as it will probably turn out somewhere along the way? This is the seven sins of this project. The left does not agree with this approach to the subject, because today we need to support companies, help them and their employees, look for simple and good solutions for many economic sectors, for a hairdresser who is waiting to finally be allowed to work, for small trade, for small and medium-sized companies and redundant workers. Such solutions are expected today by society - support, help, security, dignity, and hope for this difficult time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Prime Minister, Mr President, is talking about solidarity over and over again, but when it comes to it, instead of real support, we only have more burdens, sanctions and tributes. Although one group does not actually concern them. Somehow I haven't heard about the layoffs among the party cameras and the Misiewiczs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree to this. We do not agree that millions should suffer from the crisis, and the only true shield today is the legitimacy of law and justice. The Left parliamentary club will therefore not support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u256	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the coalition club Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 in relation to the draft law amending the law on public roads and some other laws, prints No 342 and 349. I do not understand, it is incomprehensible at all that we are once again trying to achieve such an important change, which is reported in the form of a parliamentary project, not a government project, without consulting entrepreneurs, with drivers, with the whole community of carriers, drivers. I will use such data: in 2018 270 million tons of cargo, i.e. 23% EU road freight has been transported by Polish carriers. These are Eurostat data. We have almost 3.5 million trucks registered in Poland. And today, without any consultation, we're moving it to the National Tax Administration. French politician Jean-Baptiste Colbert said that the art of collecting tax can be compared to picking geese: you should rip as many feathers out of it as possible with as little bird hissing as possible. And that's what's happening today. It turned out that the KAS would be the most effective to collect this money to punish drivers who would not log in to the application on time. Isn't this app going to be similar to our remote voting app? I was thrown out of the system three times yesterday at the committee meeting, and I couldn't take part in the vote, and there was no transmission because the party was jamming. I didn't even know what was being voted on at the time. The same applies to inspections. The services will know at a given time which the driver has not logged in, and they will stop him on the next rounds, because if he completes it within 3 days, there will be no penalty, but provided that he is not stopped earlier. This is a full surveillance we're talking about more and more. In a few moments, we may need to put sensors in the bathtubs so that we can see how much washing water the public consumes. And so are the sensors here. But on the other hand, who will we be assured that these sensors, this geolocation, will not operate outside the areas of paid roads? It didn't go anywhere. What about the transition period? Because it is pointed out that the transitional period will apply to the replacement of equipment, receivers, but will the punishment of drivers have some transitional period? I didn't find it anywhere. From July 1st, instead of helping entrepreneurs, instead of supporting drivers, will you punish them already? Perhaps it would be worth considering the issue of driver insurance. Millions of people leave every day. They don't know if they're coming back from their course. The danger is still great. There are no patrols to check how drivers move, because patrols have to watch the politicians of Law and Justice, they have to stand in front of the home of the former minister of Mr Zieliński, as has been often said here. Maybe we should do this so that eventually our wives, mothers, children have a little bit more peace, that if, God forbid, there was some disaster, a fatal accident, at least the family would be protected in some way, instead of inventing further ideas for sharpening. And the question of what's already happened today: time to fight the coronavirus. There are no further ILOs on the road. That's what I've been talking about a lot of times. I've been alerting you. The driver can't pull over to wash his hands to clean up his needs, and you're figuring out and tampering with the next areas. This is another program of yours, a project+, because in design you are the best, worse if it comes to realization. You've ruined everything. You can't end anything. I don't think we can support this change as a club because we need to talk to the public. After all, before the election you promised [[♪ The bell ♪]] consultation, conversations that aren't there today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u258	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. And then Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u259	This bill is obviously pretending to be a technical act. It's supposed to be about replacing one toll system with another. The problem is that, by accident, we replace the less surveillance system with a more surveillance system. Drivers will have to install an application that will inform the authorities about where they are at the moment. The change for the time being is only about truck drivers, buses, but the poorly hidden goal, the designer's plan is to extend it to all drivers. Let's be aware of that. Apart from technical issues such as the fact that something can unload, failure, lack of coverage, penalties that you propose, which you do not walk on, I pay attention to the most dangerous aspect that is added nonchalantly here, as if out of the way, i.e. an impressive list of 14 government agencies that will be able without judicial review to request access to data from this application. For a completely incomprehensible reason for me, the creators lacked the courage to simply add an office to this list in Nowogrodzka, which will make it necessary to ask someone for a favor each time, and why do so much thinking, right? You're shamelessly trying to get into every next bill, and it's really hard to trust you on any matter, even technical, that there's nothing behind it. It seems to me, as I note, that in general two centres of power, which we have over ourselves, in Brussels and in Warsaw, are jointly carrying out some scenario from the Sexmission. The European Parliament is responsible for starting a gender war, and the Sejm in Warsaw is responsible for total surveillance and creation of artificial reality. [[Applause]] Let us bear in mind that all those who will be forced to drive using this application must be aware that their location data will in practice be freely transmitted between different services, from the IRS to the IRS. I will therefore repeat one sentence that I said in the committee, which may cause some Members, including the governing party, to shake hands with the vote on this project: You will not rule forever, this is your last term, let us not be fooled. [[Applause]] The surveillance tools you're creating will later be used and expanded by someone else, and we don't know what it's gonna end with. Don't put your hand in it. There's an amendment tabled. We will not double because the Civic Coalition has already tabled an amendment. At least to support this one amendment, I ask you to keep your expectations to a minimum. That's probably Amendment 3. In fact, this whole system is redundant. We're fighting an imaginary problem here. The easiest way to charge road tolls is by road tax in the price of fuel. The more you drive, the more you pay, the heavier the bigger the vehicle, the more fuel you consume. Anonymously, safely, without surveillance, without additional devices, applications, regulations, etc. That is why the Confederation will vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u260	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u261	Nothing to add, nothing to say. The arguments have been made, the question must be, do you not realize what you are doing? Dear ladies and gentlemen, who have entered this House under the banners of patriotism, you will usurp your pretensions to the monopoly on patriotism, and in fact you are acting as a feeder, a collective farm conveyor belt, which all the worst, the whole Eurokolchoz sludge, is to enter the very heart of the Republic of Poland, is to infect our legal system. This is an optimistic scenario that you don't know what you're doing. Because the pessimistic scenario is the scenario in which you play an unconfirmed role, that is the duality of the agenda in your actions. I think that this is already slowly perhaps even boring for those who are still following these facade deliberations reduced to a completely unnecessary minimum of the High House, because there is indeed no statutory project that you would not bring here recently, which would not at least be shot up by some or magazines in your performance. Don't do this. Don't do this. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, It's a very specific thing. Is it really about Poles finally being divided into two categories: those who have accepted the whole system by Big Brother designed and with your participation raised, and those in the category: some last Mohikan there who would like to throw a gold in the basket as they drive the highway? Should we exclude these people from public life? Can't you see? [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it is introduced by kitchen door the same system, which already works e.g. in the People's Republic of China, social trust points? Let us nurture the existence of such relics among us, perhaps past, but free people who do not want to be hooked up to Big Brother by smartphone. It is not about turning Poland into a museum, it is not about us being afraid of innovation. No, on the contrary, it's our specialty. The Confederation has the best standing on all forums, all types of electronic media. But what's different is to enjoy what's useful, people will find their own way to it, and what's different is to create tools of coercion, control, surveillance, which are always followed by repression. Shame! Disgraceful! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u262	The list of Members enrolled in the questioning task contains eight names. If none of your fellow Members are willing to join, I will close the list. And I ask you to ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the bill presented, you create an application for tolls for road use. I will ignore that Polish taxpayers have already paid for these roads when they were built, and that at a time when under your anti-working shield the economy is rapidly falling into a spiral of recession, the introduction of new tolls for the use of roads is simply stupid. Reading into the content of the project, you can learn that you are setting up a company to administer the application, and not another word. And that means that the board, the board of directors, and a couple of director's cafés will stand quietly and that they will only pay for the SIWZ's tenders. And these stools will traditionally include relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit and Miesiewicze, who will be appointed by the competent minister, Mr Sasin. Please justify: Why do you appoint a company to the administration of the system? Will the company develop the system itself, or will it commission private entities to create it? What allowances do you provide for its management, and what is the legitimacy of this company? Because I can't see her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u264	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, this bill, which introduces such a wide surveillance of people who drive on Polish roads, means the absolute failure of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Several months ago, a draft law was pushed through by the High House, which transferred responsibility for the toll collection system from a company selected in a competitive tender for the administration of Law and Justice. It cost Poles 7.5% more than before, but today's law and subsequent changes are an absolute proof of the failure of this way of thinking. And that is also a failure and admitting to this failure in the area of the extension of this system to roads that are put into service. Let me remind you that this was a subject criticized and, of course, the government did nothing about it. It is a wide surveillance (Bell), but also the possibility of extending to private road users the whole system. I want to ask the question: Why the government's location data of so many millions of Poles and Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u266	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Three short questions. First of all, I'd like to know why this is a parliamentary project and not a government project? We are in a state of epidemic, we have limited opportunities for meetings, discussions, exchanges of opinions, and you are submitting a parliamentary project that prevents stakeholders, those most interested in changes that you are proposing to influence their business. Second question. I'd like to know why you want to change the entity responsible for charging the bill, and you're doing it again. What did the general public transport inspector do so badly that you want to take away the authority he's been assigned so far? And the third line. Does the introduction of this solution, which you are proposing, have to result in increased surveillance? I want to know who will process, share information about the location of the vehicles with whom and under what rules (Bingle) because that is what businessmen ask, that is what the owners of transport companies are asking, who, because this is a parliamentary project, cannot otherwise refer to this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u268	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the PiS state everything is no longer surprising, which means nothing ceases to be surprising. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration prints electoral cards - electoral cards that can be found anywhere. It turned out that the printery, but also insertly commissioned to do so, were not sealed and the cards appeared on the market. Now we have another scandalous situation, namely the road inspection is taken away the toll collection system and passed on to whom? National Tax Administration. What project, of course? In the parliamentary project, without public consultation, without discussion, without directing the Parliamentary Group for example. Traffic Security. This is an outrageous situation. It's about citizens' surveillance. In this case, there should be an opinion of the Ombudsman. It's not the first time a PiS has been waiting for the privacy of its citizens. This is the situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That can't happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u270	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u271	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The most surprising thing is that you are pushing a bill that does not help Polish entrepreneurs at all. This is all the more surprising because the Minister, as Head of National Tax Administration, wants to take over these duties. Similar assurances were made more than 2 years ago when the Road Transport Inspection took over these tasks, as regards the creation of a new system, and it turned out that it did not arise because the inspection could not do so. The inspection commissioned this task to the Institute of Communications. The Institute of Communications also failed and took the same company, which previously carried out this task in a commercial manner. Will the Minister guarantee that this new system will be created? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when will he rise? Will it be cheaper? Because the swallows, maybe otherwise, the squirrels say that this bill appeared because the Communications Institute fights knives with the Road Transport Inspection. But if so, the heads of these institutions can be called off and solved differently, and you involve the House in such a nonsense project during the crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u272	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! Minister! We are against what the government is doing. New surprises every day. If it's not a new tax, it's a new system for monitoring citizens. We don't agree to mandatory installation of applications for people to be obliged to carry it with them. We do not agree with the announcements that everyone on the road should be obliged to have a mobile phone with them and to account for costs by the application and that several government agencies should have access to this data. And if we're on the phone issue, I'd like to mention that our phones have been ringing lately. Suddenly it turns out that the PiS Members have phone numbers for us and everyone is interested in talking to the members of the Confederation. Ha, ha, ha! So I would like to make a statement here from the speaker clearly so that it can be heard: Members of the Confederation are unbuyable. [[Applause]] If you're on fire because you can't organize the election properly, stop calling us and see if you have a government majority. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u274	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Katarzyna Eberhan, the Left. Catherine Ueberhan. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u275	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Given the matter and the scope of the legislation before it, it would be expected that it would be a draft government law, but we are dealing with a parliamentary project. And the question is, why? Is it because of the simpler and faster legislative path? Government projects must include in the explanatory memorandum draft basic implementing acts as well as a list of entities interested in the work of the project concerned and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, government projects must be subject to mandatory public consultation. That is why I ask the actual authors of the project: Is this a deliberate action, then, to avoid these consultations, for example with the transport industry? Or are you in possession of opinions they have not made available to us? I'm not asking for an opinion from BAS, I'm asking for opinions from the transport industry. You can get it from BAS, too. BAS reviews are available, which is why I am not asking for the BAS opinion. Don't discuss it, Member. That's why I'm not asking for an opinion from BAS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the question: Are you in possession of an opinion on this project other than the opinion of BAS and what implementation projects will result from this submission? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u276	Thank you very much. The question was asked by Katarzyna Ueberhan. And now the question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has decided to destroy the Road Transport Inspection. He destroys her, but he rules her, so he has the right to destroy her. That's what the citizens will judge. But, honourable Members, dear Minister, Prime Minister, what are we dealing with here? With the destruction of road safety, first of all, with the prevention of road safety. Third point: the inspection was intended to affect unfair competition. You want to delete that, too. Pathological phenomena - they were supposed to shrink, and you're rooting for them to increase. It's all under surveillance. This is your little package. I have a question that should sound here at the beginning: What lobbyists are behind this bill? What lobbyists? Because it's about doing small business, not improving the safety of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u278	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Evening's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be honest with you, I'm not surprised at anything anymore. This bill is the best proof that your budget is falling apart. You want to charge again with new taxes of Poles and Poles, in this case transport companies. In this bill you want to spend almost PLN 0.5 billion on the organization of a new system, which will not only be monitoring, it will, in short, be charging even higher fees than so far. Therefore, my question is: Are you planning to change the road network that will be subject to tolls? Are you planning to raise these fees to those that are being charged today? Do you plan to include passenger cars as well? Please go to Szczecin and see how much you pay for the freeway. I'll be back with the Seym tonight. I'll pay 88 zlotys one way for the freeway. This is an outrage, which is why we need to... But to whom? But who will you pay? Allow the question to be asked by the Member. Excuse me, Marshal. ...think not of raising taxes (the bell), but of reducing all these burdens. You should have taken care of it and sorted it out, and you don't do surveillance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u280	The list of Members enrolled in the task of the question has been exhausted. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Magdalena Rzeczkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u281	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Government Party fully supports the proposals for solutions presented in the parliamentary draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. The electronic toll collection task will be entrusted to the Head of the National Tax Administration, as stated by the applicants. The regulation will also provide the basis for the creation and operation of an electronic toll collection system. Customs officers will only assist the Chief Road Transport Inspector in carrying out the tasks related to the control of the correct payment of electronic charges. This will not be the task of the Head of National Tax Administration. The solution is to consolidate administrative tasks in the area of danin collection and fees. What's important here? When delivering, building, implementing this system we want to take advantage of the experience of the KAS that we have, related to the construction, implementation and operation of the SENT road freight monitoring system. The technical components of this system will be used to reduce the cost of implementing new solutions. We want this system to be fully electronic, easy to operate, easy to use for entrepreneurs. Taking over this task by the head of the KAS will not result in an increase in expenditure for this purpose from the state budget. The revenue from the tolls will, as has been the case so far, fund the National Road Fund, and the source of funding for these tasks will also be, as is currently the case, part of these funds from the National Road Fund, as specified in the agreement between the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Infrastructure and BGK. Such solutions, which are based on GPS satellite positioning technology, are used in other countries. These are Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, and it is worth noting that in the Czech Republic this customs service is responsible for collecting these charges. The entry into force of the legislation is scheduled for 1 July this year. However, this is the date on which the head of the KAS takes over the responsibilities associated with the construction of the system and the collection of charges, and no changes for public road users are associated with that date, as the changes related to the implementation of the new system will take place later, at the beginning of 2021. The date will be communicated by the Minister of Finance in advance and at the same time will provide mechanisms for smooth implementation of new solutions. I wanted to stress that the bill, the parliamentary project, does not introduce any new charges. There is also no establishment of a new company to build and implement this system. This concerns the use of the competence and potential of the company Critical Applications, which has been in existence for 3 years. Nor is any company called upon to administer this system. The role of the system controller will be played by the head of the National Tax Administration. Data processing will also take place on... The administrator, as I said, will be the head of the KAS. Only those data that relate to toll roads will be processed. Scope of processed data - such as today. The excess data will also be deleted. The head of the KAS will be required to review this data for three months. There will also be automatic mechanisms used here. Where an entity, citizen, driver or trader does not use the system, these data will also be deleted after 12 months and geolocation data after 6 months. Thanks to the fact that the National Tax Administration intends to use the experience of the already functioning SENT system, which has been implemented, provided by its own resources of the National Tax Administration, we are sure that the proposed solutions, firstly, will work because they already function and function, for many entrepreneurs. And it'll also be cheaper. The fee collection is to be simple. There will be no paper formalities, no contracts, no need to obtain specialist equipment to use this system. There was a question about the executive act. Here the proposal for applicants contains only one such implementing act. This is the definition of authentication methods in case of registration. It is a broad use of trusted profile, qualified signature or authentication elements of personal evidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u282	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev, who will speak as the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this debate, for this discussion. I would like to thank you for the discussion that took place at the first reading of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you for all these questions, I would like to stress this and thank the Minister for the answers that have been given here to most of the questions asked. However, I would also like to stress that those who have asked for surveillance... There was a lot of concern here. I would like to make it clear that this new technology we are aiming at, 21st century-specific technology is GPS technology and is recommended in the directive. So what? So these concerns are very surprising from the members of the Civic Coalition. Does the Civic Coalition therefore accuse the European Commission of seeking surveillance? Let me stress once again: GPS technology is recommended in the Directive, in the 2019 Directive, of 19 March, on road tolling systems. Or just? We very much ask you to allow us to complete the speech. I'm helping. I would also like to point out that the data that will be collected will be managed by the National Tax Administration and will be fully secure. This very similar and similar system - I think of the SENT system here - works in an excellent way. It is the SENT system, which is already in force, that has made Law and Justice, that the Government of Law and Justice fights effectively, among others. with a VAT gap. I would also like to reassure all these workers and address the concerns that have arisen. I'm talking about art here, above all. 17 in this law, which explicitly draws attention to workers who pass from the general inspection of road transport to the National Tax Administration. All of this will be done on the same terms. These employees will have the same salary, the same salary, on the same terms they will move to the National Tax Administration. I would also like to strongly and unambiguously deny the claims made in the High House, those claims which said that we were raising the charges. In no way does this draft law raise tolls on national roads. Here, the relevant regulation of the Council of Ministers of 22 March 2011 is still in force. And there it is in Annexes 1 and 2: in Annex 1. - a specific toll road network and Annex 2. - certain rates. We don't change that in any way here. What is actually included in the bill is that we are only talking about sanctions and penalties that are imposed if someone does not meet the conditions. I'm thinking most of all about this registration here. This is new. So far, entrepreneurs had to personally request a dedicated device, pay for it there, they had to sign the contract themselves. We're giving it up. It's an easy one for entrepreneurs. It will be possible to register electronically by sending, of course, remotely, sending certain documents electronically. Here, too, there is a need for this particular authentication, which was mentioned by the Minister. We very much want the profile to be trusted, so that the electronic layer of ID card, so that the qualified signature is used just during registration. This is important. If an entrepreneur has the opportunity to make such registration at any time, we must also introduce a penalty for this project, e.g. If someone doesn't make that registration. But it's going to be a very, very simple operation. I would also like to thank you for the amendment that was tabled by Law and Justice, because we have been discussing this for a long time. Here was this discussion about the level of penalties that are imposed. We recommend that these penalties should be at the level of the existing ones. Today, this amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Also, as an applicant, I ask the High House to accept this amendment, an amendment which says that the levels of these penalties remain unchanged (the bell), so we do not increase these penalties in any way. Thanks again for running this bill. I firmly believe that this will make it very easy for all the entrepreneurs concerned by this law to do so in a very clear way. Today we are giving the opportunity of National Tax Administration to prepare this very important and necessary system in my opinion. I would very much like to ask Members to support this bill in their vote. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u284	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A few sentences from the rapporteur's comment on the speeches... There'll be a corrigendum. ...and at least some of the questions that have been put on the government website. I would like to start with a very, you can say, a quick statement that this is a law that does not raise the current toll rates on toll motorways or expressways, where an electronic charge is levied on Polish entrepreneurs carrying out business activities and foreign carriers. I look at Mr Braun and dedicate this information to him. Polish carriers, Mr, in Germany, where the electronic fee is charged on the network 52 000. km, pay - at least a year or 2 years ago - more than PLN 3 billion per fee as participants of this traffic, which gives about a dozen percent of the input into the federal budget due to the total amount of charges collected from all carriers passing through the territory of our western neighbour. In Poland, this network is probably approx. 3700 km. This is an impact on the National Road Fund. We are talking here all the time about regulation, which results in financing the construction of roads, i.e. new sections of expressways, new sections of motorways, reconstruction and modernization of national roads. And what does that have to do with anything? Once again, as rapporteur, I stress that we are talking about a law that simply regulates certain technical issues. However, the essence is mainly that as a driver, entrepreneurs finance the National Road Fund - as one of the main sources of financing for road investments. I was very upset by some of the comments. In particular, the questions were primarily the questions of those who had not read this parliamentary legislative initiative at all. By the way, I dedicate to these Members the information that in the last term, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and earlier Mrs Beata Szydło implemented the law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport, which, above all, contributed very strongly to the liquidation of the so-called. fuel mafia and influence on the territory of the Republic of Poland hundreds of thousands of tons of fuel, from which taxes have not been paid before. This was until recently a continuous element, I would say, the fight of public administration - to eliminate such pathological phenomena. I think there's been a question from a representative of the Left who... I guess you'll be back on A2 today, I understand, right? Right. Mr President, this is a motorway managed by a concession operator... Private. ...for which negotiations on operating and construction conditions took place in the 1990s. I just want to remind you that when the Construction and Motorways Operation Agency was established, it was financed by concession fees. When it comes to this episode that you're responsible for, so to speak, like you. It rightly claims - very high fees, it was negotiated, it was the representatives of the public party who were reminded of whose funds their salaries were financed. So that these are certain events from 20 to a dozen years ago, which later continue in the concession system for thirty-several or 30 years and are subject to many, rightly so, comments from drivers. Finally, I would also like to add that, according to this amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - with regard to the maintenance of the existing amount of penalties for offences concerning, I would say, the use of road infrastructure without the legal activities to be completed - these amounts will not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] increased And they'll be on the same level as they are right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u286	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. In correction mode, misunderstood sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And also, rapporteur! You are misleading the High House because of the directive in Article. 3 talks about technical solutions, as equivalent indicates satellite positioning, mobile communication, microwave technology. At least by 2027 all three can be used. That means there's no reason to spend public money on new technical solutions right now. [[Applause]] Surveillance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u288	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u289	It is about coercion, it is about coercion, honourable rapporteur, honourable minister, not whether it is good or bad - because perhaps it is great for some who choose this solution - to make it easier. The thing is, you're coercing that your totaliztic inclinations, too, in such a simple matter seem to be taking over. Give the Poles free choice. Do not discriminate against those Poles who do not wish your blessings and who prefer to follow their paths on their own terms. Let me repeat: this is not about preserving the museum in Poland. But between the museum and the concentration camp, the new, wonderful world or the new, wonderful normality of Mr Morawiecki, there is a wide room for manoeuvre. Mr President, do you hear what you're saying? Do not install an electronic shepherd on all Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u290	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted this proposal. I object. Then we'll proceed with this in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 18. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 57 hours 18 min 18]] I'm reopening the session. Before we begin, ladies and gentlemen, we will check the quorum again. In that case, I would very much like to ask all your Members present in the Chamber, outside the Parliament and those who are with us remotely, to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. Thank you. The meeting shall be attended by 444 Members. So I'm establishing a quorum. Formal applications have been received. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u291	God bless you! Still. What do you mean, after all? Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We learn that the dictation of this transitional, praise God, the majority of Parliament has led to a prank, which is to block all the amendments, and we find that the number of questions you intend to allow before voting on these already blocked amendments is zero. And therefore, I am formally asking for a break that could be used by your marshal to convene the Senior Convention so that you can use the Marshal's time to react on this matter, because the farce of this procedure, I think, is in the long run detrimental to the authors of this farce. Not that I'm especially sorry for you guys, but, yeah, how do you say that? Thank you, sir. ...with the Christian concern for your future, order this break and change your course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u292	He received a formal request for a break, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 - for, 234 - against, 5 stopped. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Formal proposal, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a recess, a convening of the Seniors Convention and the inclusion on the agenda of the item we requested yesterday. I take the opportunity that the Prime Minister is in the Chamber, there is the Minister of Service Coordinator, Minister of the Interior Mr Mariusz Kaminski. We really should talk about what's going on with the election. Law and Justice, your government is going with this election like a draft. It's probably good for you guys, but is it good for everyone? You reveal your cards in advance, and if you don't, somebody accidentally does it to you. It's worth talking about for an hour. Not now, it's after the votes. Let's have a discussion that will finally let us know what's going on. It's not a joke, it's the truth. In Poland a few days before the elections, we are unable to answer the question of who organizes the elections. This is a farce, Marshal. You're the Prime Minister, it's an hour of conversation, no more, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u294	Thank you, sir. You know very well that this is not a legislative proposal, because there has already been a request for a recess, so I will not put it to the vote. Mr Boris Budka, the last formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request an hour's break and an invitation from the Minister of Health to this room to explain the real situation of children returning to daycare and kindergarten. We're hearing conflicting communications. I'm afraid the only reason for this chaos that you're introducing to children and their parents right now is because you want to implement a crazy plan to make choices in traditional form in May. Today we hear that Minister Szumowski does not recommend that children go back to schools and kindergartens. We want you, Prime Minister, to suspend this absurd decision until you have presented reliable expertise, clear guidelines for local governments and an agreement with local governments. We should all be on the side of children, but you can't use the youngest to prove you're trying to defrost anything. I'm asking you very much, Prime Minister. This isn't the time for this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the type of decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u296	Thank you, sir. But you do know that the request for a break has already been voted, so that I will not put it to the vote again. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Act - Energy Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act 321. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 321, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 452 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on the amendment of the Act - Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. At second reading, the Sejm held a discussion during which a proposal for rejection of the bill and an amendment was made. In view of the proposal to refer the draft law to the Infrastructure Committee, an objection has been raised again. I will put to the vote a motion to refer the draft law back to the Committee on Infrastructure. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm will proceed to the third reading of the draft law after delivering a table of amendments to the ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of re-directing the draft law in print 349 to the Committee on Infrastructure will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Formal request for a change in the way the vote is conducted. Mr... 455 Members voted. 454 was for, 1 against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm has adopted the proposal and has therefore sent the draft law back to the Committee on Infrastructure in order to submit an additional report. Formal conclusion. Request for a change in the way the vote is conducted. Formal conclusion, Marshal. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on the amendment of certain protective measures in relation to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The additional committee report shall be in print No 350-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u297	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! 72 amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Commission has examined the amendments. It recommends adopting 10 amendments. The remaining amendments propose to be rejected. It also recommends blocking amendments according to the report of the Committee on Public Finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u298	Thank you. The Commission proposes the adoption of the draft Law No 350. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional amendment report. Let's move on to the first amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 214 - for, 229 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the second amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 14 - for, 306 - against, withered 133. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of amendments 3 and 4. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 5th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 22 - for, 285 - against, 147 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 6th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 238 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the first minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the second minority request. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 7, 11, 18, 36, 39, 40 and 58 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 226 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the examination of amendments 7, 11, 18, 36, 39, 40 and 58. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 228 for, 190 against, 40 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Let's move on to the 8th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 446 - for, 6 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed to the examination of amendments 9, 12, 19 to 22, 26 to 28, 30 to 35, 37, 38, 41, 44 to 47, 49 to 57 and 60. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 13 - for, 283 - against, 161 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 10th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 199 - for, 244 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 13th amendment. The adoption of this amendment will render the 14th amendment futile. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 235 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 14th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 214 - for, 234 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 15th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 215 - for, 234 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 16th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Well, now we're gonna do it like an arrow. 458 Members voted. 212 - for, 235 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of amendments 17 and 69. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 17 and 69. He'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 210 - for, 235 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We move on to the third minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 218 - for, 235 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the examination of amendments 23 and 24. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 23rd and 24th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 234 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 25th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 29th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 170 for, 247 against, 38 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 42nd amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 446 - for, 8 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 43rd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The television journal is starting. Why don't we take a break? 459 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the fourth minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 211 - for, 236 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 48th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 215 - for, 235 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of amendments 59 and 61. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 59th and 61st, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 213 - for, 235 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We move on to the 62nd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 62nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 235 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 63rd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, the news has escaped us. How do I live? In Polonia they're about... 454 Members voted. 217 - for, 234 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 64th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 64th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 211 - for, 242 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 65th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 66th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 66th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? This piss all the time against. Total opposition, all the time against. 457 Members voted. 218 - for, 236 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 67th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 213 for, 244 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 68th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 68th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? In front of the whole thing, Your Marshal. 458 Members voted. 443 - for, 14 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the consideration of amendments 70 and 72. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 70 and 72 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 212 - for, 237 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Let's move on to the 5th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 215 - for, 237 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 71st amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 71st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 214 - for, 235 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have an epidemic in Poland and in the world. This is the third law that, as you say, you are helping Poles, fighting the epidemic and the economic consequences of this epidemic. What's in this bill? Nothing for the Poles. You've closed the hair salons. Something for hairdressers? Nothing. You've closed the fitness parlors. Is there anything in this bill about this? Is there a dollar in this bill for these people? There isn't. What's it for? Indeed, wide access to our personal data, to the extent that the Ministry of Justice does not only want personal data from people who will benefit from free legal assistance, it still wants to know what this assistance was about. This is a violation of attorney-client privilege. What are you doing? You're doing your own business. Once again in this law, you exempt entities related to the PiS from public procurement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Jumping into money and personal information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! By participating in the work of this law, I once again conclude that the state is very close to such a dogma of its own infallibility and its own perfection. Prime Minister, why is there no room in this bill for a voluntary ZUS project? Why is there no place in this law for a liquidity fund, a solution that is close to the whole of Europe? Why do you keep multiplying bureaucracy in this bill? Why is there no money in this bill for those who, today, risking their health and their lives, care for the safety of Poles on the first front? Many times we also have examples of paying for this sacrifice with life. And the last question is, why did you underestimate the farmers so low, value the benefit for those who are going to hospital or will they be quarantined for only half the lowest wage? You've valued the farmers at half the lowest wage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, it's not right, really. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Unfortunately, we have a poor woman instead of a shield. Instead of helping workers, workers, entrepreneurs, we have poor help. The government has promised a lot, it doesn't do anything. The truth is that there are several elements that would allow you to vote in favour of all these laws, but you do not want to talk about the crisis witness that the Left put on the table - 2600 PLN, you do not want to talk about unemployment benefits - 1800 PLN, you do not want to talk about the exemption from credit payments, you do not want to talk about the cancellation of leasing fees, rent or electricity. You don't want to. But you talk a lot, you don't do much. The anti-crisis shield should be for Poles. It's for your people. Unfortunately, there is nothing that gives you a sense of security, responsibility. You treat the crisis with small patches. Today you have to react strongly and I urge you to finally react like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u304	Thank you, sir. Here you go, last question, Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u305	Don't spoil it, then you won't have to fix it. Don't create a socio-economic crisis, you won't have to fight adversity heroically. It's a classic species. The Żolibor Socialists perfectly fit into these traditions. First we create a problem, and then we solve it and sell the naive public as a big help program, rescue, crisis, antivirus. On the other hand, if the next generation of PhD students, masters, if any The Poles will still survive this office, they will read these laws with astonishment and in this peas with cabbage, which really brings you a lot of shame (the bell), from time to time... Thank you very much. ...can happen, they can find something meaningful... There you go... ...was it necessary for you to have a pandemic so that you could put these obvious facts into practice? Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir. The Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! But first I will start a little differently, I will start by thanking those who have worked on this law in the Committee on Public Finance, for the president from the right side of the room, but also for those who are from the opposition and who have worked on it, and there have been a few of them. This also results in several amendments adopted by representatives of the opposition. And there were things that we pulled out of, even though we thought criticism was excessive, but we did it to show good will. And thank you for that. On the other hand, I must ask the question: How is there so much bad will among you, especially among those who have spoken? Do you really not see that you are acting not so much on ours as on your own? It's your fault you're doing this. Look at your candidate's polls -- it's 4%. 3%. Or 3%. Among the PiS electorate. High Izbo! Why don't you want to support this bill? Self-employed - extended aid in terms of exemption from the Social Security Office to 7 thousand. income. That's what you've been calling for before. Investment impulse - 900 million for the ARP, which will invest them. Extension of the anti-crisis shield to entities established until 1 April, including those using PFRON funds. For local governments, who are supposed to be so close to you: support for the bus fund, increase from 1 PLN to 3 PLN per car km, support package for the railway. Issues very important especially during the crisis, i.e. the anti-Liquiary records, which will defend Poles against dishonest people. I was talking about how in one Gdansk Poles were robbed of PLN 33 million. There's 1,500 real estate files in this investigation. Solidarity Danina shifted, a number of responsibilities, a number of things shifted over time. A number of facilities, not obstacles, contrary to what you're trying to say. High Izbo! But that, you might say, isn't everything. All the time you're standing on this speaker and making these thesis that nothing works here, there's no help here. Why are you doing this? I understand you can have your ideas, but how come there's so much anger and aggression? I'm gonna appeal to the specifics. I'm gonna give you some specific data. This isn't just about 2,700 grand. already submitted applications within the framework of the crisis shield. I'm just gonna talk about one thing, about support under three mechanisms. And I'm not talking about redundancies from the Social Security Office, I'm talking about concrete measures that went to entrepreneurs in micro-credit, job protection, parking. From yesterday to today, the company received PLN 390 million. The financial shield - this great plan to save Polish companies, presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This is about PLN 100 billion. Even 75% of these subsidies may be decommitted. This is linked to job protection. From yesterday until today - it started to function, but you probably didn't notice, because you are some people in some crazy amok - already went to entrepreneurs over PLN 350 million. [[Applause]] So, together with these two mechanisms, over PLN 700 million goes to entrepreneurs, and you go out here and you say that nothing is happening. Did you earn it? You worked them out, those millions? High Izbo! I ask you to support this bill. This is a bill to help Poles to help entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u308	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 350, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 212 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Government information on actions taken to enable work to be carried out in Poland and in neighbouring countries, Poles living in border areas within and outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject information will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 222 - for, 236 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the motion for rejection and therefore took note of the information. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 279 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 15 for, 438 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. Formal proposal, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u309	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am making a formal request that your marshal does not refer this bill back to the committee, but that we proceed to second reading as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Family violence is cruel, and during the pandemic, its size is unimaginable. Today, during the pandemic, the victims of violence are under one roof with the perpetrators. Once, Prime Minister, you withdrew the disgraceful bill you prepared, saying, for example, That one-off violence isn't violence. Help the victims of domestic violence today. Don't let them be under the same roof with their oppressors, with the perpetrators of violence. I'm asking you to do the same as a marshal as a woman. Over 90% of the victims of domestic violence are women. Today is the last vote before a long weekend. In many Polish families dramas will take place. It is up to us, mostly the state, whether you help Polish families, especially women, but also children. So I would like you to vote on the motion to proceed immediately to second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u310	Madame, this is not a formal proposal. We've got it all right. We'll be voting on it in a minute. Therefore, I cannot accept this as a formal proposal and conduct a vote. It's against the law. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. You've already received an answer. Therefore, the Marshal of the Sejm based on... So she was informally speaking? Mr President, this was not a formal proposal, so I do not accept the vote against a proposal which is not a formal proposal. Your Marshal, but here's a formal conclusion. The Member has made a formal request and is waiting. Miss Anita Kucharska-Heir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the Left Club and the Civic Coalition Club for submitting a formal request to move to the next reading of this law as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a government bill. The government and the law and justice have shown that this is their law. We as opposition, as two opposition clubs, say: this is a good bill. We will not object in any way to proceding it. Now we say, "I'm checking." We're looking into what your real intentions are. We're filing a formal motion, we're saying, "I'm checking." Please proceed immediately to second reading. We'll see what your real intentions are: whether it's a pre-election humbug or if it's really your concern for the victims of violence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u312	Madame, I am so sorry, I must protest. You know that this is not a formal conclusion, and you know that this has been put in order, so please do not mislead the House. It wasn't a formal conclusion again. It's on the agenda. It's against the law. No, because there is no formal application, sir. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the Government's draft law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, contained in print No 279, to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring it back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean referring the bill to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request for immediate entry into the second reading of the draft law contained in print No 279 without reference to the committee would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Applause]] Let's not get excited yet. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. It's a good thing. It's our project. It's a government project. 456 Members voted. 380 was for, 75 against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] It's great to have a government show of applause once in a while. Ladies and gentlemen, five minutes' break, okay? All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 32 hrs. 20 min 38]] Resume session. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of this bill? Yes, Members have come forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm setting the speaking time for two minutes. As the first Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this government bill has the support of the opposition. Why? Because we always support good projects. Especially those who help the weakest, and those who are certainly victims of domestic violence. We've waited a long time for this project. In fact, it is a project that implements one of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention. And let me remind you that the Istanbul Convention adopted this House in February 2015. In April 2015, it was signed by President Bronisław Komorowski. Unfortunately, President Andrzej Duda, when asked about this convention, said that it was best not to apply it. Non-governmental organisations, the Women's Rights Centre, the ombudsman for all these years have been calling for such a bill. And today we've seen it. We're glad he's here. We were worried that this was a pre-election idea, which is why it was very important to process it as soon as possible. And in a pandemic, like I said before, it's really important. That is why today we all at the Civic Coalition Club will certainly support it, because otherwise we do not imagine it. Today, in many Polish families there are really dramas. Children who have so far been diagnosed in schools e.g. In terms of the existence of a threat at home, they don't have that possibility today. Women are locked together with the perpetrators, because mostly it's women, in more than 90% cases are victims of domestic violence. That is why it is particularly important that this law be passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much for agreeing to our request to proceed immediately to second reading without referring this proposal to the committee. I think that's what work should always be like when health is at stake and sometimes the life of the weakest. Because it is, however, that women, victims of domestic violence actually (the bell) die at the hands of their perpetrators. As many as 500 of them die each year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u314	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The project, whose second reading is now taking place, which concerns the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, is a project submitted by the government, the government headed by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Law and Justice has always been, is and will be for the protection of the victims, for the protection of women, for the protection of those who are harmed. It is ours that is definitely shown, among others. through these comprehensive solutions that we have proposed in this draft amending the Code. Therefore, we call for these actions to be as determined as the actions of the Polish government wherever there are violent people. We also call on the courts not to have such curial judicial decisions as the media often inform about. That is why we support this project and we want it to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u316	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. I didn't think, I didn't believe that your marshal would agree to the Left's request that we proceed immediately to the process of the government print project 279. I really didn't think we could move on to second reading and that we would find allies both in opposition and among the ruling party to go straight to second reading. There are moments in political life when citizens can believe that they are really important to politicians, to rulers, to opposition politicians, that their lives, their health, their safety are really the value we care about here in this Chamber. There are moments in the Parliament's Chamber when Members who normally throw themselves at each other's throats and argue for the smallest nonsense, stand jointly and severally in the defence of citizens and defend their fundamental rights to life and security. It's 20 years of my life. I've been waiting 20 years for this. It is 20 years of life of my volunteers in the BABA Association, over 20 years of activity of many women's organizations and people who care about victims of violence and crime. Thank you very much and I hope that today will be the third and fourth time, and that we will move immediately to the third reading, and we will adopt an expressly not bill that will cause controversy, but a law that will really help the weakest, most damaged, most hurt people in the country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u318	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs Agnieszka Ścigaj, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, remotely. There you go, Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just like the first time, and like the second time, thank you very much for this project. As my previous speakers said, this is a project expected over the years, expected by the environment of NGOs, but above all by victims of domestic violence. It was absolutely inhumane that in various difficult situations when violence occurred, each time the perpetrator stayed at home, and the victims, very often a woman, very often children, had to be separated, very often moved out of their own home. It often took months before the perpetrator was punished, and during that time he lived very well at home. I have called for this many times, and I am glad that this project is being processed. Of course, you can't wait any longer, because violence isn't waiting, the perpetrators aren't waiting. These things are happening now, especially now, at the time we're dealing with, at a time when we're locked up in our homes, when the level of emotion, the dangers are causing an additional wave of violence. I'm glad we can announce this project quickly. Of course, I appealed at first reading and at second, and at third, and at fourth, every time I say that it is not enough to stop violence. It is also important to ensure that support and assistance are provided to victims of violence. It would be a good idea in the next shield, because they probably will be, because these shields haven't done anything before... to accept our proposal: the addition to the hero, and the social workers who are needed, operate in interdisciplinary teams and are people who are very often first in contact with the victims of violence, allow them to go there often and actually make up for their work, because it is very necessary, necessary. Thank you so much for this project. Of course, the Members of the Polish Coalition will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u320	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun will be the last to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u321	So miserable is your populism, it's such a pathetic situation. You are implementing the so-called dictatorship abroad, of course. The provisions of the Istanbul Convention, that is, you support the growing interference of the people's authority, which you are here a national, Warsaw's outpost, support the intervention of the Great Brother in the life of the Polish family as well. You've locked up, Prime Minister, people in their homes. They're out there, they're out there, they're freaking out. So quickly specialty, so that the policeman, the policeman, can enter the Polish house. Because you know the courts don't work, you know the police have other jobs, you have to give tickets to people who go out to the spring sun. So let them out into the sun, first of all, let the nation out of quarantine, and you won't have to heal the plague with cholera, just as you're here to do. It's a shame to argue with you, because, of course, most of you don't know what you're actually voting on, you have your party schedules, and therefore no one gets in there. As if, God forbid, he's infiltrated, he's just not on the schedule for the next election. But it's kind of a historic moment out there, because you're sending... Of course, the Confederacy is always in favour of the perpetrators of crime being quickly, exemplaryly detected, punished. Sure thing, but what's the point of this specialty, if we have some kind of bagatela, a few thousand years of tradition of our civilization that somehow evolved there, so... Roman law, Christian duty (the bell), hierarchy... Thank you, sir. Don't do this. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u322	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Questions. We will proceed to the third reading of the draft law in a moment because no amendments to this draft have been tabled. Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, Minister of Justice, asked for the floor. You're welcome. But there will be some questions, won't there? It's not for you. There won't be any questions. It is with a formal request to change the way the discussion is conducted. Not for the rhyme. Sit down. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many talk about violence in Polish families, but often end with these words. We know that police statistics show a great deal of trouble, that's $250,000. cases of very serious events related to aggression, violence. The most common victims are the weakest - children, women. Liberal governments, left-wing governments, for many years, have had the opportunity to do much to prove that action is followed. But you have shown that you speak a lot, you speak beautifully - it is often difficult to disagree with that, because sensitivity, empathy towards the victim is and should be what connects us all, regardless of the political scene and the place we occupy - but there were no concrete proposals or solutions. And it was this government, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, against criticism, contrary to words and accusations, that we supposedly ignore the problem of violence against women, that presented a concrete solution, which is the answer to these dramas that often happen in some Polish houses. And this solution gives the real tools of the police, so that at the time of finding indisputable, undisputed, objective way that we are dealing with a physical fact and a frequently accompanying psychological aggression against the loved ones, towards the weaker... That's the way things are. The police can and should issue an order to leave the apartment by the aggressor, by the oppressor, by the person who is the perpetrator and the tormentor. This warrant is enforced immediately. This command is accompanied by a restraining order to the household and to those who have been subject to aggression. These solutions, which are accompanied by other important changes - the acceleration of judicial procedures that allow them to be reviewed immediately - are precisely those solutions that are included in the government proposal. So I am glad that, in view of these words, these slogans, these announcements We also hear here today willingness to support, to manifest in the vote support for the United Right Government project: Law and Justice, Solidar Poland and the Agreement, which shows and proves that it can put forward concrete solutions to reduce violence in some Polish families, solutions for which many women and children are waiting. On this occasion, however, there is no way to fail to notice a certain inconsistency. 'Cause I'll remind you that pretty soon, at the end of the previous term, in the same room. We discussed changes to the Penal Code. There, too, the government has submitted changes that provide for a substantial tightening of criminal liability for serious crimes against women's interests, women's interests, family crimes, and rape crimes with the particular cruelty that the perpetrator is committed in the context of such rape. Unfortunately, that support was not there. I call on you to make this change so that this attitude, which today has been manifested in these speeches, finds its good consequence so that you will also be ready to support these changes in order to strengthen criminal policy, which aim to ensure that the perpetrators of drastic, most brutal, cruel crimes such as rapes with particular cruelty are much more severely punished in Poland than is the case today. I hope that we can achieve this consensus, and that we will finally reject this sphere, which is often accompanied by a debate on the fight against crime related to violence, that we will reduce this sphere of ideology, which is often smuggled in by the way. the debate on the Istanbul Convention. This is not about ideology, this is not about change in value, this is about real action that we should take, free from ideology, and full of empathy and taking over from the suffering of victims, the suffering of women, the suffering of children, the suffering of those who are subjected to violence. This is how the Government of the United Right, the Government of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska and the Agreement are consistent. I hope that this consensus today and your support for our project - the proposal even from the Left to go straight to second reading - that this proposal is a good announcement that we will also be able to find an agreement on these changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which I mentioned, going even further, tightening the responsibility for the most serious crimes, brutal, aimed at the well-being and interests of the Polish family and Polish women. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Free of ideology.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two formal proposals prior to the third reading. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Braun. Half a minute on a formal motion, sir, half a minute. Half a minute? Really? 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u325	I propose a change in the way the vote is conducted. I'm suggesting that your marshal suggest at least the present photo of these masks that I better know where they are, quoting the classics, the treacherous faces in this courtroom. Because I feel like their position is changing. It's changing. You're not just acting against the decency, common sense, you're acting against the tradition, the civilization pawn of this nation...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u326	Thank you very much, sir. I cannot put this proposal to the vote because we only have one vote, so I cannot change the vote, Mr President. Mr Boris Budka. Please. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u327	One minute, Marshal. Thank you very much. The height of hypocrisy. Thank you, Prime Minister, for submitting this bill, but please, I urge you to come to your senses and dismiss Minister Zioba as soon as possible. You're the one who took money from women's organizations. [[Applause]] You're the last person to have the right to talk about violence against women. This is scandal, hypocrisy. You fought paedophilia so hard that your bill, your bill, is in the courtroom because even President Andrzej Duda didn't sign it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I would ask you not to speak on this matter again. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. This is shame and hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-30-sejm-11-2.u328	We proceed to the third reading. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 279, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Question. Question before the vote. Art. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 433 - for, 6 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. [[Applause]] This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 30 April this year. The meeting shall be adjourned by 5 May 2020 at the latest. 15. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 01]]
