ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u1	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a break and a call for the Senior Convention to complete the agenda for draft laws that have been in this House for weeks. First of all, the Senate of the Republic of Poland has long asked that parents of children under the age of 15 and carers of persons with disabilities should also be covered by welfare benefits. Secondly, we have long been asking for loans to micro-entrepreneurs and support to amount to 40,000, not just 5. Thirdly, we say clearly that Polish workers should be treated equally. There can be no division between better and worse, it cannot be that a person who employs more than 9 people simply does not receive this support. Finally, Mr. Marshal, it is absolutely unacceptable that you allow one printing in a selective manner and reject the other. I am pleased that there is a proposal which is identical to the presentation of the Senate (The Bell), and I am pleased that we will at least be discussing this today, but I would ask that the agenda be completed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, the senate proposal has already been dealt with on the occasion of the first target. We've already voted on it. No, this is different, Marshal. Another project, he's an adjustment to the shield. But he became unobtrusive the moment we accepted the anti-crisis shield. It's 15 years old, and you've turned down 12 of them. Anyway, you filed for a recess. For a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention. Mr Robert Winnicki. Remotely, I understand. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In these difficult, dramatic times we should remember those who have served Poland and Poles. Unfortunately, yesterday we received sad information that city councilman Jersey City died in a New York agglomeration, a great defender of the Katyn Monument in this city, a great friend of Poland and Poles. Therefore, I ask that this man, coming from the Korean community, Mr. Michael Yun, celebrate a moment of silence in the Seym. Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u4	Thank you. Another formal proposal, Mr Szczerba, also remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u5	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today is a special day. ♪ This is the day ♪ A health worker. Mr. Marshal! I request that the agenda be supplemented by a draft resolution which has been tabled by the Civic Coalition Club, print 309 on expressing gratitude to health workers. The Sejm of the Republic expresses its gratitude and appreciation to health workers for their full dedication to heroic service on the days of the epidemic. During this time doctors and doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab staff, clinic staff and hospitals, representatives of all medical professions, social workers, as well as many volunteers risk their health and life in order to bring help - faithful to their vows, as well as the best traditions of Polish health services. It seems, Mr. Marshal, that there is no more appropriate day for you to complete the agenda and print 309 today was introduced and voted by the High House. Ladies and gentlemen! Today at the hour. 13 (The bell) throughout Poland, on balconies, on squares, Poles wore such cards: applause for you. This is an expression of respect for all Poles, Mr. Marshal, for health professionals. Today, this vote of gratitude should flow from the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u6	Thank you very much. We have another formal motion. Mr Michał Kwiatkowski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u7	More specifically, Robert Kwiatkowski. Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to announce a break and to convene the Seniors' Convention in order to extend the time to discuss both projects to be discussed by the High House at the moment. I do not question the marshal's and the Sejm's Bureau's powers to combine this, but I consider it a rather unusual method to create a discussion on the most important topics and problems that our country is facing today. These projects are, in a sense, complementary. As I say, it's a good direction, but five minutes for discussion is definitely not enough. I would therefore ask that this proposal be taken into account and that the time allowed for the debate be extended to at least 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u8	Thank you very much, sir. Well, it would be very good if this discussion were substantive and if we were actually discussing concrete solutions. We have two formal requests for a break. I'll put them to the vote. I'm calling a 20-minute break. Wait a minute. Then why vote when you announced this break? Mr President, here is the situation: the Sejm Bureau or the Seniors Convention is called by the Marshal of the Sejm. All I can do is announce a break, so I just announced it. Probably because there aren't nine members of the PiS. Unless the Member agrees that this will be a shorter break. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We can't call the Convention now, but we can shorten the break. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? Your marshal maybe... Yes. But are you in touch... Yes. And he won't call... I don't know. Like you asked. If he doesn't call, then... Mr... If this is the consent of the applicants in terms of recess... Because I can agree to an extension of the speeches to 7 minutes, just as we agreed yesterday, but we would move on to the points of our programme and if there was a need to vote, then we would mobilise to vote. We agree to those eight minutes, Mr. Marshal. Seven minutes. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. A group of Members submitted a draft law on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield and on the amendment of certain other laws. The designs are in prints no. 330 and 324 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the joint discussion on these items, he listened to 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 8 and 9 of the agenda: Please take the floor of the Minister of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. Excuse me, the applicant will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that, after the crisis shield came into force last week, we can talk today in the Sejm about its extension, the introduction of additional instruments. The project which the Council of Ministers is submitting to the High House is precisely such a complementary extension of the actions prepared by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I have the honour before the High House to present this project and its most important assumptions. High Izbo! You can say that this project consists of several parts. The first, undoubtedly quite extensive, extremely important, with the highest costs, are the issues of saving jobs, the issues of saving Polish companies. Therefore, the mechanism for premium holidays, i.e. exemption from the Social Security Office, is proposed. So far, we have had an anti-crisis shield as a solution for individuals conducting a single-person business, for micro-enterprises with regard to employees, and now we are talking about workers who are in small companies, i.e. those who employ from 10 to 49 people. The proposal we are proposing provides for an exemption on the part of employers from 50% of the costs, i.e. 50% is on the employer's side, 50% - on the employee's side, so half of such dismissal was foreseen. The second point, which is extremely important, is the issue of civil law contracts, contract contracts, contract contracts for works. We are introducing here, and we are really expanding the mechanism that has already been adopted, only that instead of the one-time aid that could have been applied for so far, we are increasing it to three times, because so far the whole shield is composed in terms of its operation, that it covers a period of 3 months, so three times it will be possible to reach for the 2,000. in the case of parking. This is the second solution. The third solution is additional assistance, additional support, which is proposed by the Industrial Development Agency. It is envisaged to facilitate the repayment of loans, inter alia. 15 months' punishment. The fourth issue, which is extremely important, concerns a specific group that operates on the market, social cooperatives, some of them function. In this case, regardless of the number of employees and, of course, regardless of revenue, we have a proposal to exempt these employees from the Social Security Office so that these cooperatives can survive on the market at this difficult time. The additional mechanisms presented in this group of proposals concern the solutions introduced under the BGK programme, which include first business, start-up support, and more favourable rules for the use of this support. There is also a possibility to renegotiate bank loans for all companies that operate with the largest expansion. Finally, a mechanism is proposed to safeguard the measures which have been transferred or which will only be transferred under an anti-crisis shield against bail-outs. It was a case that entrepreneurs also asked for. And that's, you could say, the first part of this package. The second part is a range of e-services that concerns a broadband fund that has been prepared for implementation but later. We are accelerating this, we want to expand this range of activities as much as possible, and we want to include all activities related to e-learning, such as funding for the purchase of tablets, laptops. It is also a question of access to public websites so that they do not fall within the scope of the limit being bought out. It is also a matter of rapid access to health care facilities so that we can and strengthen them in this regard, at least. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is finally a matter of schools with computer equipment - and here a whole range of specific sums has been proposed. The third area is the solutions proposed for farmers. This is support for quarantined farmers, in which case 50% is foreseen. the national minimum, i.e. support for the agri-food sector, i.e. expansion of activities and this is facilitation, as well as regulations on the different deadlines which are linked to the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. Finally, the fourth area, which includes a large part of this draft law, which is to be discussed today in the High House, concerns various types of facilitation for citizens. The proposal concerns the extension of NGOs in terms of the possibility of saving jobs, the issue of redundancies and saving them so that they can operate in this difficult situation, to cover them with shields, with these programmes. It's finally a letter delivery case, I mean. Polish Post's activities so that citizens do not have to go every time with a visa to post so that posters can leave them in mailboxes. This is then an extension of the term of validity of driving licences, medical examinations. A number of exemptions and facilitations are envisaged for citizens. Finally, if we want to have a serious conversation with Poles and the government is going to do so, we know how difficult the times are, we want those restrictions that occur today, as well as this crisis, to take on the government administration. Therefore, mechanisms have been proposed to facilitate the reduction of costs that can be achieved already this financial year. High Izbo! These solutions are, of course, much more. They concern specific entities, companies, as well as large companies of the Treasury. There are people everywhere, thousands of citizens who work. We want to defend jobs at all costs, we want to save Polish companies and we want to propose changes so much and so often so that we can respond as flexibly as possible to the needs of the market and to what is happening today in the Polish economy. Therefore, I ask the High House to support this project, I ask the High House to work on this project and I ask the High House so that we can lean on the solutions that have been presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u10	Thank you, Minister. Now please speak to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ms Marlena Maląg. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u11	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The anti-crisis shield only functions for a few days, launched on April 1st. The procedures for submitting applications to voivodship labour offices, county labour offices have started, but also to the Social Insurance Institution. And as we repeatedly mention and pass on in public space, we want these procedures to be simple, so that first of all we can support the Polish entrepreneur, every employee, because behind these proposals - and I would like to quote you statistics, what they look like for this moment - there is a specific issue of a given person. We want real support to be addressed to Polish entrepreneurs, whether they are self-employed or small or large companies. This support package, this 212 billion-dollar shield, is supposed to be comprehensive support. The most important thing in this support is the man, and the actions that the government is undertaking are thoughtful, analyzed. I would like to mention to you the statistics, how they look at this moment of submission. You say many times that this shield doesn't work. However, I would like to ask that we work together, because today the voivodship labour offices and district labour offices have a new quality. Not long ago, we wondered whether their functioning was worthwhile, above all, the county labour offices, with the declining unemployment. Today, unemployment statistics for March do not really reflect the situation that we are about to have in the country, which is why I do not even bring these statistics closer, because we know that more and more unemployed people are being registered. Already today - I monitor it from day to day - the unemployed arrive, fewer people register. Most likely by the end of April, in May we will already have a real picture of the situation in the country. But first of all, we take actions that are to be ahead of us so that we can minimize the consequences of this tragic situation in which we are in. Ladies and gentlemen! A total of 340 thousand were affected by this moment. conclusions. The highest number of applications, because more than 247 thousand, was submitted to the Social Insurance Institution for exemption from the ZUS contribution. Until now, this exemption has been applicable to micro-enterprises. As part of the new shield, we will expand this support, as the Minister said, including companies employing up to 49 employees, entrepreneurs will be exempt from the 50% ZUS contribution. We've got about 56,000. applications for parking - parking for persons engaged in economic activities, for civil law contracts. At this moment we also have complex in the country, and it is in every county employment office, about 31 thousand. micro-loan applications. With regard to these micro-credits, which you have mentioned here, that they should be wider, we are making some changes to the new shield so that, above all,... The way to obtain this loan is easy, but the point is that the way to redeem the loan is easier for the entrepreneur, so that it is such a package at the beginning of this difficult situation. And the most important group that we support, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, i.e. the measures that go to save specific jobs, depending on whether the employer has decided to stop or reduce working conditions. At this point, we have over 3.5,000 complexes. applications to a guaranteed employee benefit fund. These applications are made to save more than 100,000. workplaces, and I will remind you that the shield only works for a few days. As we estimate, because these are estimates, although the first payments have already started, today we have submitted applications for more than 700 million PLN, during these few days. So we are aware that we need a very large stream of support for our entrepreneurs, our companies, but above all our employees, our families to protect jobs. We are fully prepared for this, and we will continue to monitor these actions to introduce new elements in subsequent solutions, which will primarily support (the bell) jobs, ensure the liquidity of our entrepreneurs. I therefore ask you very much to support these actions, to support these activities both in this media area and in your local environments. I monitor the submission of applications, whether in county labour offices or in voivodship labour offices, and every day I meet with the Voivodship Labour Offices, as well as Minister Alina Nowak - with the county labour offices, with their representatives. We're handing over the information package. Applications are submitted online. We also conduct training all the time, we instruct, because despite this, in our opinion, simple entrepreneurs have many questions. So such expert instruction is being given by us on an ongoing basis. The 212-billion-dollar shield will be further expanded. First of all, we will ensure that the Polish employer, so that every employee has the protection of the workplace, that after this difficult time we are now, which will probably continue, in a safe and timely manner, they can return to a functioning that will no longer be the same as before the crisis that is caused by the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u12	Thank you, Minister. Now I would like to ask Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz to present the justification for the draft law from print No 324. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 to present a bill on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield. Before I go to the justification of the project and its presentation, on World Health Day, I want to thank all health professionals: nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists, doctors, also all hospital administrators, clinics who care about our safety in these difficult times. You're the real heroes. It is thanks to you that Poland can effectively fight the coronavirus. You guys are taking the test. Unfortunately, not all institutions pass this exam. World Health Day and our true crisis shield complement each other in this regard. I'll start with the part of the project that concerns health care. In order to deal with the biggest crisis we have been facing since World War II in order to go through the biological crisis, but also the economic crisis, there must be a comprehensive solution for all sectors of social life and public life. For that to happen, it has to be a powerful health system first. This is a guarantee of the functioning of the whole country today. Without a successful health system, there will be no chance of saving the economy, so we start with the most important things. The health system, as shown by the experience of countries where the coronavirus spreads rapidly, if it works well, does not create a threat. If it starts to function badly, it is overloaded, underfunded, there is no adequate amount of medical protective equipment, it stops functioning, it spreads, it becomes a source of infection, it spreads to not only all other health care facilities, but to its rapid spread. How to improve the health system and how to safeguard its functioning? Firstly, 20 billion from European funds, including from the state budget, for the purchase of the most necessary equipment. That's what local governments are doing today. I appreciate all efforts, including those in charge, but 20 billion is an injection that is needed for hospitals to function so that doctors and nurses feel safe, but also that patients, not only at risk of coronavirus infection, but also those who suffer from other diseases, have access to health care. This situation has been going on for a month. Oncology patients are waiting in longer and longer queues. Patients who have been waiting for rehabilitation can not use it at all. Many branches are empty, so today we also need to make changes to the National Health Fund. Tests should be carried out - and here is a good change in the decision of the Minister of Health to carry out tests in nurses, doctors and medical staff. We've been applying for it for two weeks. This has been achieved and the regulation has been amended last weekend. There is a need to monitor branches that are particularly vulnerable, internships and geriatrics, where older patients are present, often 80- to 90-year-olds. There is a need to monitor social assistance homes and health care establishments and in these departments access to tests should be as quick as possible. Supplements for health workers, another issue, because their work is connected with great physical and mental effort, dedication to society as a whole, dedication to their family life. Such additions are introduced by our true anti-crisis shield. This is the first section that concerns maintaining the efficiency of the health care system, the health system. He's guaranteeing we're moving on to the other one now. In the true anti-crisis shield of our authorship is the second whole resource of activities related to employee, entrepreneur, employer, farmer. These are all actions that include (the bell) the funding of remuneration. The minimum remuneration should be paid to all companies that have an economic downturn have suffered losses. We propose a mechanism for monitoring these losses: one month to one month, but also one year to one year - a 15% reduction in turnover year to year or by 25% month to month. PLN 2,600 paid to each employee, regardless of the form of employment. These are the minimum security guarantees. The welfare allowance - it has already been mentioned in this Chamber many times. The Senate was working on this, for which I thank you very sincerely, and we were able to benefit from this during the work on the amendments, on the bill. Care allowance up to 12 years old for employees. It can't be that you differentiate children, take care of an 8-year-old child, and you skip a 9-, 10-year-old child. It should actually be up to the age of 15, but by understanding the voice of the ruling party, we are introducing a solution to the age of 12. As far as quarantine workers are concerned, in those companies where workers are quarantined, we propose a replacement employment and the State finances the minimum remuneration of the substitute worker. These are - some at least - proposals for an employee. For the entrepreneur here is a whole range of solutions. You have to go very brave, you have to go fat. Otherwise we will not save the Polish economy, we will not save jobs. The Minister said, and rightly so, that the number of people registering as unemployed is increasing. It could be avalanche growth. It can grow from 1 million to even 2 million unemployed this year. So the more we invest now, the more we invest in the Polish economy today, the greater the return. For every zloty invested in the Polish economy today you will get a return in the form of retained jobs estimated at between PLN 1.30 and PLN 2.60. So it's going to be a very good investment, and she's the only one who has to be brave. The Liquidity Fund. A very important topic that concerns all companies. Sectors such as tourism, transport and services are particularly vulnerable. There is a lack of money to perform basic tasks related to running the company. If the company loses liquidity, it falls rapidly. The liquidity will only be maintained if there is a serious credit line at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which will give enormous opportunities to a small, medium-sized company, micro-company and the largest company that employs the most employees. This money will be used to buy goods, to pay for services, to pay wages, to pay wages. The Liquidity Fund must be operational immediately. This is what Mr Tyszka had already mentioned when we were working on the first crisis shield. In the tourism industry from 50% to 70% employees are already fired, 600 000. workers can be made redundant - only in this sector of the economy, which accounts for 6% of Polish GDP. See how much, how much, how serious a branch of the Polish economy - only one, I do not address the issue of others - already concerns the crisis related to the coronavirus. If they do not have the Liquidity Fund, they will unfortunately close their business and we will not do it quickly. They asked for help from the banks, but also in the Polish ones, in those that you polized, and in those big foreign ones they were treated with a shoe. They are simply not granted turnover loans, they are not granted aid loans, they are treated with a shoe. Why are your people on these boards if they are unable to lend Polish companies today? Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, Fundusz Liquidności. Fired from... Mr President, please slowly move towards the punch line. I still have at least five minutes. 15 minutes is to justify it. These five minutes, sir, I have already extended you by 100%. No, it's 15 minutes to justify. You haven't changed your time. Unfortunately, the situation has changed due to the remote vote. But there are no changes in the rules. There's no such change. There are no changes in the rules. It's seven minutes to discuss, and five minutes to present the project? Unfortunately, it stayed that way, but I added you the other one. Presentations - five minutes. We're wasting time in this courtroom, Marshal, a lot of time for nonsense discussions, and now we're talking about specifics. Speaking of specifics... But you're the one having this bullshit discussion, so please have a grudge against yourself, okay? But you're not from review. You're not a reviewer. You're welcome to go to the end. Mr Budka will sit down calmly. Chairman. The applicant has 15 minutes. Five minutes to perform. I've already extended it by five minutes and I'm going to extend it by a couple more minutes, but please proceed to the end. Voluntary ZUS. A chance to save almost every company. This is the solution we've been proposing for months. Now it is necessary to put them permanently into the Polish system in order to be able to voluntary ZUS. Deferral of advances to CIT and PIT taxes for all companies. You can't differentiate companies for better and worse sort, for those employing up to nine... It's a good thing that after our appeals you're changing these rules now, you're already talking about companies employing up to 49 employees. But you only take half of it there. If a company with 250 employees gives notice to everyone, not only is this company failing, not only are your employees fired, but also the micro-companies that cooperate with it fall. So ZUS release, PIT release and CIT release - that includes a real crisis shield. Credit and leasing solutions. Not only credit holidays, but an extension of the instalment of the capital of course and the instalments related to interest, but also an extension of the repayment period of the loan so that there is no accumulation in the autumn, which also, as all indicators and all analyses show, may not be a period of prosperity. Sick pay from day one. This is a great burden for companies, especially in times of crisis, that during the first 30 days the company bears the costs of sickness payments for the employee. Rapid VAT refund. It was one of the first requests submitted by employers, by entrepreneurs, that VAT can be refunded in 3 days. You will come and you have already, I think, this verification system very well refined, you often boast about it, so today you can return VAT in a very fast time. These are solutions for entrepreneurs, employers. Very important solutions for Polish agriculture. The situation is dramatic. Farmers have nowhere to sell agricultural seasonality products. Today should be a harvest for industries such as the floral industry, the trade related to the sale of novelties. They have nowhere to sell it. There is also a need for support for quarantined at the level of minimum wage. You need a welfare allowance on a similar basis as the Social Security Office introduced in the CRUS. There is an exemption from agricultural tax with compensation for local governments. Other rules for dismissal payments as well. But we need intervention on the market, buying milk powder, butter by the Agency for Material Reserves, because the situation on the milk market, on the poultry market, on the beef market is getting dramatic. Foreign markets are blocked, there is no possibility to sell, there is no possibility of direct trade. Farm tourism, completely omitted in your solutions, should be treated as an economic activity - although it is a specialist agricultural activity, but today it concerns the tourism industry that has suffered the most. Another solution... Thank you, sir, thank you very much. Exactly two more sentences about self-government, because self-government needs support too. They want to cancel the property tax, but they have to be compensated. The real anti-crisis shield contains it. Our proposal also contains general solutions, even if blocking the application of a directive that is not adopted and probably not adopted is difficult to operate in a normal world, let alone in a time of crisis. I'm talking about the GDPR directive. Today you have to block it because it makes it difficult in many places to support and help the employee and the employer. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I address the rulers. Thank you very much, sir. You've really abused my patience. There's a gesture of goodwill on our part. There's a chance for a real crisis shield. Just the courage. Today you have to be brave in action. Only so will we save the Polish economy, Polish patients, Polish jobs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u14	Sure. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the joint discussion on these items. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government project contained in print no 330 and on the parliamentary draft from print no 324 prepared by the PSL-Kukiz Group15. Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. That's the name of the parliamentary club. Good. Coalition Poland. Thank you very much. The coalitions change so much, it's hard to remember names. I didn't write it down. Excuse me. I mean, really bad memory. The government project presented by Minister Schreiber, supplemented by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Maląg, presents a comprehensive solution extending the anti-crisis shield legislation that entered into force only a few days ago. The success and achievements of the anti-crisis shield were presented by Minister Maląg, and I will not repeat that. Of course, it is always that the solutions that are proposed are limited, and they do not apply to all, generally, but only to those who suffer the greatest losses or damage, are addressed to those whose jobs are most at risk. So that with great appreciation we accept another extension of the anti-crisis shield prepared by the government. Of course, in addition to matters that are important when it comes to the specifics of the situation in which we are living at the moment, i.e. the facilitation of, for example, the remote consultation of supervisory board meetings, university senates, etc., which is quite obvious, i.e. the example of the Sejm or the parliament committees - these things are being introduced - but important, most important and concrete are proposals to support entrepreneurs, support jobs. This is extremely important because there are very significant funds behind this, such as those that allow these jobs, maybe not all, but the vast majority, to save. It's about extending the parking benefit. In this case, it is extremely important that up to 3 months, because we predict that so many of these repercussions will last, it was significantly subsidised. The estimated amounts related to these expenditures are in the order of PLN 4.8 billion. It is also extremely important to extend the circle of actors, i.e. to increase - as has already been mentioned - the aid to entrepreneurs employing not as many as nine people, but to 49. This is extremely important for maintaining jobs. A very important task and extremely important are loans to keep jobs, to sustain jobs, loans that will be decommitted. Of course, we are talking about loans that are subject to conditions, i.e. the preservation of jobs, but later with redemption. Estimates of expenditure are almost PLN 10 billion. So the actions that are being proposed are already very concrete. I am very pleased that social cooperatives, but also foundations and associations, i.e. entities which are not typical economic operators, but also those who employ people and which also affect the effects of pandemics, maybe even more than others. It is also important to extend aid to farmers who are in quarantine. So that these are very complex solutions, and because there are a lot of them, it is difficult to discuss all within a few minutes, but certainly during further work they will all be discussed and supported. Two more words about the parliamentary project, to which I would only have an extremely important attention relating to the title, because it concerns a true anti-crisis shield, as if this government was not an anti-crisis shield. So I think there's a bit of a false thesis in this title. In addition to this perverse title, so to speak, of course this project contains solutions that meet entrepreneurs. There are also solutions, such as aid to farmers, which appear both here and here. Of course, it cannot be that the Sejm will accept two types of aid depending on the project, only this type of aid must be harmonised. There are also records that are worth looking at, even if such - you can say, a little something like this about cooperatives, running general meetings remotely, etc. All these solutions are worth noticing, and I think that during the discussion it will be possible to use the provisions of this project. What are the major flaws in this project? First of all, with regard to the government project, the financial impact is estimated, but for this project it is not. Of course, this needs to be looked at, and it needs to be calculated as much as we can, as we can so ambitiously approach, to deal with the solutions proposed in the parliamentary project. Because although, of course, goals are noble, you have to look at all possibilities. The last thing I would like to draw attention to is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office (The Bell) for the parliamentary project, which points out that it will require notification. Of course, this notification process is conducted by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. As regards the parliamentary projects, as Members do not have a government administration, your marshal would have to apply for such a notification process. Thank you very much, sir. On the other hand, I think that further work on these two projects will bring good solutions for entrepreneurs, for those who are at risk of losing jobs, but also for activities under extraordinary pandemic conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u16	Thank you very much, sir. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Mr Dariusz Rosati.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! We are therefore here to debate another government project to combat the crisis caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus. So we have an hour and a half to discuss a legal act that counts 140 pages. And this is already a tradition of government work, because the previous acts were equally extensive and we had just as little time. I would like to start by asking the marshal to either him or Marshal Witek to point out that there is a permanent breach of fundamental legislative standards in this room. We don't have expert opinions, we don't have opinions from the Legal Office, we don't have opinions from the social partners. We get 24 hours to adopt a very extensive legal act actually without the possibility of carrying out a comprehensive assessment of its effects. What do we get this time? This time we get, as I said, a great piece of legislation, but in fact I can only summarize it with one sentence: too little and too late. More than half of this legal act are amendments to the previous law that we adopted here 10 days ago. In general, the whole draft legislative act actually brings a very small amount of solutions that are important for businesses and workers, while in a large part it is devoted to procedural matters, simplifying all kinds of administrative procedures. It can be said that the government and the general government are dealing with themselves in this project. This is a testimonial of the lack of a comprehensive concept, which is also a testimonial of a specific legislative diarrhea, because this is the third law that deals with the same topic in the last 5 weeks, and probably the eighth law that deals with the fight against the crisis. But what's more important is that we hear here in this room all the time calling for us to work together on laws to rise above party divisions to support these laws. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have no confidence in what the government is proposing to us. Two weeks ago or 10 days ago we supported the Shield Act just to see that eventually none of our amendments were taken into account. Moreover, under the cover of the night, the government has added an additional amendment to the subject completely unrelated to the fight against the epidemic, because it concerns elections. We don't trust you. You've cheated us many times. We don't have any trust. not only because the Prime Minister has also repeatedly missed the truth, if I may say so, but also because all the amendments tabled by the opposition - including a whole series of very important amendments that the Senate has tabled - have been rejected by you. Let me repeat once again: we have asked the High House and the government to support such obvious actions as the allocation of PLN 20 billion to strengthen health care, such as extending custody allowance to parents of children under the age of 15, then - 12 years old, as mandatory antivirus tests regularly carried out in health care at weekly intervals to protect those who are on the front line of this fight. All amendments were rejected. You didn't consider anything. We also have no reason to believe you because you are lying about helping the European Union. This is particularly outrageous, because even the European Commission has drawn the attention of the Polish government, so that it simply does not alter the facts, so that it gives a reliable relationship on the part of the European Union. We've talked about this many times. Outrageous words about the fact that the European Union does not give a single cent were coming from this speaker. Does it? I finally want to say that we don't trust you because you misjudged the situation. I have here a series of quotes from your statements, Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Szumowski, from a month ago, six weeks ago, when you said that everything is under control, that the country is sufficiently prepared, that there is nothing more to be done. We keep our hands on the line and monitor the development of the situation. All services, institutions are in contact with me. We are convinced that everything that could be done was taken - said Prime Minister Morawiecki on 2 March. On February 25, the head of the Prime Minister's firm, Mr Michał Dworczyk, said: "We are prepared for Cortipinus regardless of the scale of possible diseases. If we confront what's going on in hospitals and what signals are coming to us from health care... This is simply a testimony, either that you were lying then, or that you had no idea the dangers facing Poland. The problem is that all sensible amendments, including amendments, or the bill that Mr Kosiniak-Kamish just presented, you reject, because the main enemy to you is not a virus or recession. For you the enemy is the opposition, for you the primary goal is to maintain power and win elections. That's why you don't even consider the most obvious and common sense proposals. We've already won the election recently. For this reason, I would like to say that the Civic Coalition does not support this project, because it does not meet all the proposals we have made. Once again, I'm asking Marshal Witek to pull the projects we've put together in the last few weeks from the drawer. There are five draft laws that go in the same direction as the project of the Polish Coalition presented just now, which are ignored by the parliament authorities and are not taken into account by the government. Our proposal is to reject this project at first reading, because it is not suitable for anything, and to start working on these bill projects, which are (The Bell) submitted by the Civic Coalition and the Polish Coalition, because they give a chance to fight the epidemic, with the virus and for important help for Polish companies and the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u18	Has the Member applied for rejection at first reading? Or is it just a guess? Is there a formal conclusion? On behalf of the Parliamentary Left Club, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The announcement of the second anti-crisis shield or its second variant, by the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, I accepted with the hope that the rulers realized that the anti-crisis shield was not working. Besides, the evidence that the anti-crisis shield had failed in its current shape has been provided by Minister Maląg, who is present here. She informed us that 340 thousand. entrepreneurs have applied to the Social Security Office for various types of measures to facilitate their life, facilitating their functioning. Is that a lot? In Poland it works and is registered 2.5 million economic operators. That means it's 340,000. this is barely one in seven companies, one in seven legal persons carrying out business activities. That's only 14%. all economic operators operating. What about the other 86%? , Minister? But not everyone has a loss. A total misunderstanding, a misunderstanding. Does that mean their crisis hasn't hit them? Maybe they're not working anymore. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, in this crisis shield, the real thing is just a crisis, and the shield is a fake. That's the truth, that's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I looked with hope at what you have for entrepreneurs and especially for workers to propose, because a good economic programme should, in my opinion, have the following characteristics. First of all, he should be fast. Secondly, it should be simple. Thirdly, it should be generous, because today the situation is difficult and Polish workers, and Polish entrepreneurs. Our actions should be adequate. Fourthly, this economic programme should not have negative side effects. Notabene, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this is the economic programme and proposals of the Polish left, what we propose. We propose simple, clear and effective actions. We propose a crisis benefit of a minimum wage, i.e. 2600 PLN gross, for all workers who have lost their jobs. We're offering you $50,000. to cover fixed costs during the crisis for all entrepreneurs and funding in the amount, note, 75% the salary of employees, provided that these workers do not be fired. We offer support for local governments, because they are now burdened with the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. And, of course, we propose funding for hospitals that lack medical equipment and medical materials. Your programme, this first programme, does not meet these criteria. It is not simple. In one of the revision projects you tried, note, add an article. 31zy. The shield is obviously not fast. The fast coalition is the ruling coalition, which was pushing the draft amendment of the electoral code yesterday in this room so that the vote could be conducted in correspondence mode. Yeah, you guys are fast in here. You're proposing the first one -- you pushed it, you pushed it -- the second one, the third one. And it worked, and you're fast at it. If you were so quick to save jobs, there would be no dramas of thousands, hundreds of thousands of employees and closing thousands of companies. Your package, in my opinion, is not generous either, unless it is generous, your marshal, Mr. Marshal, the Minister, that you consider the funding of the banks for the amount of PLN 70 billion. You spend only PLN 7.5 billion on health care in this program. So, who's treating Coronavirus? Banks or health care? It seems to us that not banks, but from the distribution of funds you can get the impression that the main burden of fighting the coronavirus rests on the shoulders of banks and bankers. I think, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way. By the time this crisis shield program started working, it already had side effects. Unfortunately, these are negative effects. As part of your program, there are 11 billion zlotys, which is 5%. the anti-crisis shield values, which means it's 100% propaganda and 5% the budget. My proposition is, ladies and gentlemen, that you stop bothering with such propaganda and come with something serious. We're ready to have a serious talk about a serious program. Thank you very much. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u20	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u21	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to present the Left's position on the second print project. The bill presented by the Polish Coalition is entitled: the creation of a true anti-crisis shield. A real one, because the first one, the government one, can't be relied on at all. The former may be called a pot lid or a prickly umbrella, because it does not protect anyone, which the government is trying desperately to patch at the moment. Therefore, the opposition must now take responsibility for the fate of Poles and Poles. And that is what we are doing as the Left, although our project put forward a few days ago in the Seym still cannot wait to be considered in this Chamber. There are good solutions in it, which Robert Kwiatkowski presented in his previous speech. The project of the Polish Coalition, which we are currently debating, contains most of these demands. The Left Club will support his referral to the committee and work on its development. We will certainly also report an amendment to remove the voluntary contribution to the Social Security Office not only during the outbreak, but also forever, because the Left will never agree to this. Yes? And when she was in charge, she was okay with it? In times of pandemic and economic crisis, we need to work together, start talking as politicians from different groups, because that's what voters expect us to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, in the coming days the president of the club Krzysztof Gawkowski will start consulting all the clubs on a joint draft resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of an emergency commission for economic slowdown and the development of Poland+ development projects. The Extraordinary Commission will consist of representatives of all clubs, social and government experts. Together we must develop a new Marshall plan for Poland so that we do not fall into recession for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u22	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Club PSL-Kukiz15. Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. Parliamentary Club, sir. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u23	Your marshal's got the wrong writing. The parliamentary club is called the Coalition of Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 and I will be very grateful to you if you give a true name and instruct you on the occasion of Marshal Terletki. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill could have been processed yesterday. Yesterday the Polish Sejm could accept solutions so expected by Polish employees and Polish entrepreneurs. However, instead of dealing with the true anti-crisis shield proposed today by the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz15, the Sejm dealt with yesterday all day with the urna+ project, a disgraceful project, a project to conduct elections against the will of Poles, contrary to the opinion of doctors and contrary to elementary reason. You did it to distract you from the problems of the Polish economy. Maybe I'll give you some examples of what happened yesterday. The hotel industry company from the district of Rzeszow reported 1/4 crew redundancies yesterday. The Mazowieckie carrier conducting courses to the airport in Modlin fired all 45 workers yesterday, saying that the only thing that would help him is the suspension of split payment, which we have been appealing for for at least two weeks. One of the largest Polish bicycle manufacturers fired 1/4 of their employees and the others are to work 4/5 jobs. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the tip of the iceberg. This is the beginning of a very serious recession in the Polish economy. Today, our economy is bleeding, and you want to put a second slice on it, offering me a 2.0 pseudocarriage. Ladies and gentlemen! Working on the project of the Polish Coalition concerning a true anti-crisis shield, we listened to the voice of Polish entrepreneurs and Polish workers. We've fixed your hole and cardboard shield so that it can finally become a real crisis shield. What are the pillars of this true shield? The first, most important, is to provide liquidity to companies. That's what all the entrepreneurs we're talking to are saying first. Without liquidity in companies, there will be payment congestion, and this will lead to a wave of bankruptcy and massive redundancies. Some companies will draw others along. To prevent this, we propose the creation of a Liquidity Fund at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Liquidity Fund would provide companies with cash to regulate all continuous leases, leases, loans within three working days from the date on which the application was submitted directly to the account under a simplified procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we presented our draft to Minister Emilevich two weeks ago. Today, the Minister has signalled some kind of liquidity fund. We are pleased that you are going in this direction, which we have pointed out, and already these announcements show that it will be a bureaucratic fund for medium-sized and large entrepreneurs. What about the little ones? The second fundamental point of our true crisis shield is the voluntary ZUS for all companies without having to meet any criteria. The release from the ZUS is only one of the absurdities of your hole shield. In the case of the 1.0 disc, the exemption from the ZUS applies only to micro-companies. In the case of the 2.0 shield, you have improved slightly, offering a 50% discount for small companies. It's a step in the right direction, but you can't differentiate companies because of the size, because times are that 95% The companies have problems. Please release this bandit flat-rate ZUS from all businessmen immediately. There's no reason to maintain an idiotic income limit for self-employed people of 15,000. zł. The third issue concerns tax holidays for entrepreneurs for the next few critical months. That's what's missing most as part of the 2.0 shield. Companies are now faced with a dramatic choice whether to pay their employees a salary or rent for renting premises, a loan payment, a ZUS contribution or a tax advance. Let's take this burden off the companies and suspend the collection of all taxes and charges for the outbreak. This should be the first step. In the next step, when the epidemic is over, the state should introduce a general abolition on unpaid taxes and charges of 30%, 50% or up to 100% , depending on the scale of the company's losses and the state's financial situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Your hole shield is based on the philosophy that you have unfortunately applied to entrepreneurs for five years of your governments: to add a new tax, to send control, to create unclear rules so that the official decides the fate of the entrepreneur. Each application shall be subject to a stack of documents or statements under criminal liability. That's what you think, since businessmen were doing well in times like this before the coravirus, they'll do well in the days of the coronavirus. Only that this crisis is different from all previous ones and therefore emergency measures, simple, automatic mechanisms with bureaucracy limited to the minimum need to be applied. The aid should be addressed to all companies without calibration, because it is not so that one or two industries suffer, smaller companies suffer, and larger companies manage somehow. Everyone suffers, and time is running out. Therefore, I ask the High House to support the true anti-crisis shield proposed by the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz15. At the same time, I am applying for the second reading of the real crisis shield project and the amendments based on our law to the pseudo-carrier proposed by the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u24	Thank you. One minute and 40 seconds left. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Act on this first anti-crisis shield, as well as the current government's seemingly incomprehensible bypassed, avoids the issue of the obligation of banks to freeze all capital instalments and interest rates on companies facing economic difficulties today, facing problems of liquidity, which are the result of not mismanagement or even market difficulties that they were unable to predict, but a decision taken by the Minister of Health in both regulations of March on the introduction of an epidemic risk and then the introduction of an epidemic that directly mentions very specific sectors marked with the PKD number, the Polish Classification of Activities, as defined in the laws. The activity of these industries has been reduced as a result of government decisions. I am not saying that this decision is unreasonable, but it results in liquidity problems, and the banks approach these entities very differently. There are those that freeze both capital and interest payments in reality, but there are also such ones, among them the bank, whose president for years was Prime Minister Morawiecki, who later postpone the capital instalment, but today they demand payment of the interest instalment. The interest rate, sometimes on mortgage loans, combined with the need to pay salaries and pay by small and medium-sized enterprises also danin (Dawn), in particular the ZUS, makes these companies on the verge of collapse due to the lack of negligence of owners or managers, only the situation which was described, as a result of which their activity was limited by the decision of the Minister of Health in the Regulations of 13 and 20 March of this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u26	Thank you, sir. Here you are, Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u27	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Why are we actually meeting here today? To play pre-established roles in this spectacle, mistakenly referred to as the legislative process? From who, and what do we want to pretend to be today? Do we want to pretend we're making decisions? Yesterday we decided not to complete the agenda for the amendment of the electoral code, and in a few hours this code was back. Are we pretending to make law? There were 39 amendments tabled at the first shield by the Confederate wheel. All of the vending machines were rejected. Are we pretending to know what we're voting on? After the entry into force of the Ministry's first shield, they had to issue a manual of 172 pages, which doesn't practically explain anything. Are we pretending we're familiar with the project? About 0.5 hours before the first reading, the content of the project, which has more than 200 pages, has been received by the project, which amends more than 60 laws. We pretend that we read it, that we analyzed it, that we put it together with the wording of the laws, that we assessed its impact, and now we will review it very carefully and ask whether by chance in the newly added article. 15zzzzx doesn't have a numbering error and doesn't it have to be corrected in the shield, patch 3.0? Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Isn't it a shame for you to be in this show? Isn't it stupid to pretend like that? But getting to the point... Exactly. ...real friends get to know each other in poverty and just as decent economy and a functioning state, and good governments get to know each other in a crisis. What is this Poland under the rule of Law and Justice? Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki promised us a lot about what this Poland will look like. We had a promise of a million electric cars, drones, attention, we were going to have a space industry. I will quote the Prime Minister: We will devote an increasing amount of resources to the space industry, to research, to all this, to our industry, to the broader scope, and to our services, so that our economy is more saturated with this cosmic element in an idealistic and practical sense. And our economy, inspired by the idealist cosmic element by the Prime Minister, headed by the Treasury companies, the whole Peleton, who leads the primacy in WIG20, with the numerous institutions, offices which the state so eagerly appoints from year to year, these 7 fat years have eaten through bureaucracy, through the party key in awarding positions and through the electoral handing out. Our entire economy through this series of regulations, requirements, approvals, maximum prices that the state is now imposing, is unable to produce enough cosmically advanced technological products like masks, like gloves, not to mention a very difficult production liquid for disinfection. It happened that one of the presidents of the State Treasury company became a national hero, because, note, taking advantage of the privilege that this office had released the use of the approved alcohol, it could produce a disinfectant. Of course, other private companies couldn't do it. The Material Reserve Agency does not have basic medical devices, because, attention, she had to buy coal from falling mines rescued by failing energy companies. But, attention, the same Material Reserve Agency had in its possession in mid-February, when we were already aware of the crisis in the health care system, 63,000. specialized, full-face neoprene masks. She did. Do you know what happened? They sold everything out. Sixty thousand. The masks were displayed at the auction of PLN 10 per piece when they were on the market at PLN 130, 140. Of course, they all split up immediately because people knew that there was an epidemic that they would need, and now with a dozen or so hits they are sold by private entities. The Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, of course, doesn't have any money for redundant workers either, because they went, contrary to the assumption, to pre-retirement benefits. But let us return to the shield, which you call an anti-crisis shield, which is actually a concrete rescue wheel. What does this shield look like? Like I said, you don't know, 'cause hardly anyone understands anything. This is demonstrated by this textbook with 172 pages, which still does not explain how and by the law, whether the exemption from the Social Security Office also covers the employee's website, so employers do not know what salary to pay. The 5,000 are known to be the ones. loans to micro-entrepreneurs, i.e. entrepreneurs employing less than nine employees under the law, should not include those who do not employ anyone. This is known from information, from a letter from an official who, contrary to the bill, claims that of course zero is greater than nine. Ladies and gentlemen! What doesn't this bill contain? I will honestly admit that for these 0.5 hours, when I had this bill in my hand, I managed to convert these over 200 pages and note that this law does not remove these 24 new bureaucratic processes, these new proposals, it does not exempt from the vending machine from imposed taxes, charges, when the government with regulations stops business. Is this bill patching all the holes in the first shield? Perhaps for the 0.5 hours that will pass by the second reading, Krzysztof Bosak will be able to determine this, who will present the position of the wheel at the second reading. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u28	Thank you. Members have come forward to ask the question. Ms Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition, will ask you as the first question. Here you go, one minute, Member. Remote connection. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What's the point of shield two if shield one isn't working? Today, the government presented the impact of this first shield. Well, you have considered the following as your two successes. The success is that more than half of the entrepreneurs plan to benefit from this aid. I'll tell you, more than half the drowning men grab razors. Unfortunately, they'll all drown, just like the entrepreneurs you're proposing to help with your shield. The second success you have is that you are in constant dialogue, and I will tell you that this is your failure, because instead of talking, you have to do it. Take the security package of the Civic Coalition, which has been in the Seym for 2 weeks, and together let us save the Polish economy. There are salaries for employees, there is a release for affected epidemics from ZUS for 3 months, there is 20 billion for health care system. Just do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u30	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened to further proposals from the government, which are only treatment with a powder of severe economic illness: the patient is to look good and not to recover. You didn't take into account the Left's proposal: 20 billion to finance and provide health care, subsidies for fixed costs for entrepreneurs up to 50,000. PLN per month, financing 75% the remuneration of workers and the guarantee of employment. Since April 1, tens of thousands of entrepreneurs have suspended or ceased their activities. There's a dramatic rise in unemployment. It's been said that there's 200 and 300 thousand, and with families there's already 1 million people. Will unemployment benefits be increased? What are you going to do with the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, which is empty? Will you support the righteous Left's crisis witnessing project for all who are severely affected by the crisis? Finally, I congratulate the Coalition of Polish Wisdom that it has benefited from several proposals of the Left (The Bell) for its project, unlike in the case of the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u32	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. One minute, sir. Mr Protasiewicz is not here yet. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Disruption of reception]] It's a way of working on... [[Disruption of reception]] Before the beginning of the session of the Sejm we received 250 pages of the text, which we were to read, analyze, consult and probably draw conclusions. Of course, I took a quick look at this project and found that, when it comes to the aid that entrepreneurs expect, unfortunately, it is not there. What do entrepreneurs expect today? They expect, above all, immediate assistance and support in maintaining current financial liquidity. What about the impact assessment? That you are going to, the government is going to launch an application for various forms of financial support. It will be among others. liquidity loans. How long will this application take? Will there unfortunately no longer be companies at the end of this application? Entrepreneurs need solutions right away, right now. Yesterday morning you were able to introduce such solutions for all Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will expose them to coronavirus infection... [[Disruption of reception]] ...but to protect jobs, you can't do anything right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u34	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition. I hear you're not here yet. But you are Janusz Korwin-Mikke, the Confederation. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The creators of the act should know that if the vehicle is not going, you do not push the car sideways to the horse. The horse that draws the economy is the demand, the consumer. So what if the cheese maker has money to make cheese when no one's gonna buy it because you shut down the markets and people don't have money? What do you have to do? We need to eliminate your shield, we need to eliminate all these... [[Disruption of reception]] ...of them destroyed the Polish economy, which limited citizens' freedom. You have to let it all go. How... [[Disruption of reception]] ...they had the money, it's all gonna move. You know that there are no restrictions in Belarus and only one person has died because of the virus. Do you understand that Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark endures these stupid restrictions? And you want to deepen it. What needs to be done is to get back to normal... [[Disruption of reception]] ...Corodineus by saying: business as usual. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't do anything, and then everything will work itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u36	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jack Protasiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u37	Good morning, Marshal. Good morning. Thank you, Marshal. And good morning, too, because this is the first time we've seen each other directly. Thank you. High Seym! I would like to ask the question, which I will start by referring to the words of Minister Emilewicz saying that today it is not worthwhile for entrepreneurs to fire workers, because the costs of this procedure will be higher than stopping them during the crisis. But why doesn't the government, Madam Minister - I now address these words to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy - want to help entrepreneurs honestly, reliably, jointly and severally go through this difficult period of the month, two or three, when their activities were almost extinguished to zero? In particular, I am talking about those industries whose activities have been de facto banned by the regulation of the Minister of Health, without distinguishing between small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, without determining the number of people whose ZUS is suspended, frozen. They're paying salaries, take on the burdens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with social tributes, which are contributions to the Social Security Office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u38	Thank you, sir. One final question, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister Emilevich! Less propaganda, more action for Polish companies and saving the Polish economy. I will give only three examples of what it looked like in March against the background of three other countries. When the Polish government offers 5 thousand entrepreneurs. PLN of loan, and under certain conditions, the German Government proposes grants up to 15 thousand. Euros without repayment or interest-free loans. When the Polish Government proposes companies that employ less than nine employees, the exemption from the Social Security Office, the French Government exempts companies from all danin and covers employment costs. When you offer to cover your salary up to 40% average wage, the UK government covers 80% salaries up to 2,5 000 Pounds. Prime Minister! Does the government understand that we need more, faster and simpler? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you need power for when the economy collapses?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u40	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject, at first reading, the draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, print no 330, and to immediately accede to the second reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield and on the amendment of certain other laws in print no 324. But before that, Minister Łukasz Schreiber asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer briefly when it comes to a few things, so that indeed some accusations and words which, I think, should not fall, should not remain unanswered, not hanged in silence. High Izbo! The representative of the Platform or the Civic Coalition says ritual: not enough, too late, bad, etc. Because it's too late. And not enough. I understand that it is possible, of course, to use such rhetoric, but it is a pity that we do not notice and that many of you have not noticed that this is exactly the fulfillment of the plan for the anti-crisis shield presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Yeah, we're adding more solutions step by step. No one in the world, and you know it, has been prepared on the scale of the problem and the challenges we face in relation to the pandemic. But we're doing everything we can, everything we can today. The representative of the Left was surprised and said that only 340 thousand. The companies took advantage of it. Six days. In six days, sir. That's one thing. Secondly, it is worth noting that, after all, and we believe in it, it will become a reality that this help will continue. The Minister presented all the elements that entrepreneurs are reaching for. Why do we want to show everyone that these are bad solutions? What's that supposed to do? And it's not true. And what you said that we didn't want to work together and that there was no Senate amendment. That's not true. We voted in favour of the 80 amendments tabled in favour. But those were the amendments of Minister Emilevich. And the 32 Senate amendments have passed. Please note that. So that's a really unfair approach. The representatives of the other parties here may have had much more effective rhetorical speeches, just a question of what this leads us to. We can, of course, talk about the space industry at this point, but is this really our biggest problem? High Izbo! Let me say this: You can of course tell, you can put it together, like one of the messengers did, choose the best solution from Denmark, show the best British solution, show the best French and the best German solution and match it with what we have proposed. Just answer yourself if it's fair. Package total 212 billion PLN, 10% gross domestic product. Of course, nobody gets triumphal around here and doesn't say that all the problems are solved. Of course not. It is clear that there is a lot of work ahead of us, but comparing this beyond everything with countries that have been able to accumulate their capital for 300 years, which have not experienced partitions that have not experienced communism, that is really unique. And in this sense it is symptomatic that the two largest parties send former activists of the Polish United Workers' Party to this discussion with the greatest concern for entrepreneurs. But this is a scandal. ...and it's actually symptomatic. High Izbo! The total level of support presented in this Act is over PLN 11 billion. The State of the Platform and the Left who apply to reject this bill after first reading, you tell all these people that these are invalid solutions. I respect and understand that the opposition presents its projects, but why do you want to reject them, it's really hard for me to understand. I ask the High House to reject these requests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u42	Thank you very much. Corrigendum. One minute, Marshal. Corrigendum. If this does not correct your misunderstood speech, I will take your voice away, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u43	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much. The mode of correction, because the Minister absolutely, in general, did not understand what we were discussing in this Chamber or misunderstood it. First of all, you promised 212 billion help, and you put 10 billion in the budget. It was you who rejected all the substantive amendments of the Senate except those which the Senate accepted at the request of Minister Emilewicz. We show you how to work together. Most in the Senate accept government solutions because we approach them with open hands, but you in the Sejm reject all the others. This is the height of hypocrisy. If you're still making such absurd arguments, you're just proving that it's an empty document, it's a document for officials, not for people. Today, entrepreneurs want real help, they want what they have in other countries of the European Union, and you are proposing 10 billion in the budget, and you are talking about 212 billion. You have not accepted any amendment that was (the bell) drawn to you by hand. Thank you, sir. And you didn't understand that. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u44	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Ms Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Marshal, this is about correcting what the Member has said. No, there was nothing there, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis shield that we presented a week ago, to which we are introducing further changes as a result of the analyses carried out, is the really functioning support and functioning already. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, It is not possible to mislead the public and to say that 340 applications submitted in just a few days are not enough. First of all, this broad support is intended to help protect jobs. That's why the funds from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund... It's not true that this fund is empty. We will fully implement this and, as we repeat it repeatedly in our communications, it will not be so that which proposal was first, will be implemented first, there are no limits, entrepreneurs can count on full support. May I remind you that if the employer introduces a reduction in working time due to the fact that he is an employer in trouble, up to 20%, he may also benefit from up to 40% funding under this law. an average wage. We have 3,500 proposals today. For over, as I've checked myself on the Internet now, 130,000. employees for the moment. This is the real protection of jobs, that's what the money will go for, and that money won't run out. There will be no shortage of these measures for employers who decide on economic downtime. And, of course, this support, which concerns the exemption from ZUS contributions. We clearly said today that not only does this apply to micro-entrepreneurs, but we also extend this support to small entrepreneurs with up to 49 employees - 50% exemption from the contribution from the Social Security Office. We haven't forgotten about the self-employed, work contracts, contract contracts. The stand-by shall be extended for a further 3 months. That's what this is about. above all, we want the Polish family to have broad support. Let me mention how you criticized the 500+ programme. Today, the dimension of this programme is quite different. In this difficult situation, not a situation caused by the government, but a situation which is completely independent of us, this witness allows additional support for Polish families in the current functioning. The unemployment mentioned here has increased, as I have already heard, by 500,000. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be precise and use data. Today, unemployment has not increased by 500,000. It can actually increase by that number at some time. There's no record of that today. We've got this data, just like you. I said, every day we collect, we collect them in the system, we don't create the data ourselves. As far as further support is concerned, which is likely to be in another or yet another shield, we are analysing the situation on the market. So we're not leaving our families without backup. If, as a result of this analysis, there is a need for support, an increase in unemployment benefit, then we have the project ready, only the right moment must come when we introduce it. So that, ladies and gentlemen, our actions are ahead of schedule. First of all, they are intended to support employers and employees, to preserve the liquidity of companies. All these mechanisms are contained in this shield that was presented a week ago. We are introducing further support in this document. Therefore, we ask you to support our joint action so that we are primarily in this difficult situation - for each of us, for every family, for every entrepreneur - in agreement and agreement and to take such actions, which will primarily serve Poles and Poles, and come out of this difficult situation as much as possible with a dry leg. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-07-sejm-09-4.u46	Thank you, Minister. I would like to remind you once again that the first reading of the government proposal for a law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, print no 330, and of the immediate accession to the second reading of the parliamentary draft law on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield and on the amendment of certain other laws, print no 324. We shall proceed to the vote on these proposals at an hour. 18.45, and now I call the Bureau and the Convention of Seniors, the Convention - remotely, the Bureau - to my office. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 22 hrs. 18 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on expressing its gratitude to health professionals, print No 331. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on expressing its gratitude to health professionals (print No 331). Objection, objection, Marshal. But there was no opposition to the Convention. I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on expressing gratitude to health care professionals. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude and appreciation to health workers for their full dedication to heroic service on the days of the epidemic. During this time doctors and doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab staff, clinic staff and hospitals, representatives of all medical professions, social workers, as well as a number of volunteers risk their health and life in order to bring help - faithful to their vows, as well as the best traditions of Polish health services. Just as many times in the history of our country, and today also in the face of the threat our national community has faced, medical workers set the best example of courage and heroism and serve as a model for society. We are grateful to all health professionals, representatives of all medical professions, as well as the Chief Medical Council, the Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics and the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics for their full commitment to combat the spread of the virus, for their cooperation with the institutions of the state and local government and for the coordination of activities for the benefit of society. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on expressing gratitude to health professionals. We continue to consider items 8 and 9 of the agenda: In the discussion, proposals were made to reject, at first reading, the draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, print no 330, and to immediately accede to the second reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield and on the amendment of certain other laws, print no 324. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals immediately. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject a government bill at first reading. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has decided to refer this project to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print no. 330 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? This system sucks. Silence sessions here. 455 Members voted. 183 was for, 235 against, 37 stopped. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred the bill to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. I will now put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the Parliamentary bill. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has decided to refer the project to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting an application for the immediate entry into the second reading of Parliament's draft print law No 324 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 171 was for, against - 233, 51 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred the bill to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 8 April, by 3 p.m. 10. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 02]]
