ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. Turn on the razor, please. Please state the results of the vote. At the moment, 84 senators have voted. [[Voting No 227]] And that's how much she's taking part in the meeting. I can see that optically this number has already increased. I'd like to remind you that we're blocking access to the hearing in 15 minutes. If there's a problem with Professor Ujazdowski's credit card, please explain. High Izbo! I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws and consider it as a point of the 30th agenda; the Act amending the Act on works or services concessions, the Law on public procurement and certain other laws and consider it as item 30 of the first agenda; second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u2	I would like to make a request against the conclusion of the agenda for the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, namely Senate printing No 232, the one presented by Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u3	I see. I'm in charge of voting on who's in favour of... I understand the other two points do not raise objections. I would remind you that the opposition concerns the second reading of the bill amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, called the Szejnfeld Act. Last vote, Minister, 'cause we're about to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u4	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Marshal, I have my doubts, and if the Marshal could dispel them... I'll remind you that over the so-called. We have already voted by the Szejnfeld Act at this meeting because we are in the same Senate meeting, and the Senate, the High Chamber has expressed its opinion, has refused to join the next reading. Hence my point: if the Senate has already expressed its will in one matter, can we re-introduction it at the same sitting, because we are still in the same session?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u5	Except it's a different bill, Minister. [[Different?]] Yes. [[Voice from the room: Szejnfeld 2.]] This is Shejnfeld 2. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Szejnfeld 2.0 . [[Voice from the Chamber: Can we vote?]] Yes. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 42 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 228]] Dear Senators! By decision of the Seniors Convention, today's proceedings will begin with the examination of paragraph 30: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions It always sounds the same, but it's a bill sent from the Sejm. . related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point, whether or not the committee will meet if amendments are tabled. If there's a committee meeting, there's a vote after the committee's report. Then we'll consider the 18th to the 21st. At 5 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of the points concerning the second readings of the draft resolutions of commemorative resolutions relating to the establishment of 2021 year of the person or event, these are points from the twenty-second to the twenty-sixth. These points will be voted on immediately after each of them. After these points, we will move to point 30 of the first paragraph: the Act amending the Act on works concessions or services, the Law on public procurement and certain other laws, which is an act considered as a matter of urgency, and then to points twenty-seven and twenty-eighth, concerning the draft resolution on Kazimierz Wielki and the draft resolution on the anniversary of the 1905 revolution. We will be the last to consider point thirty-second: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. I would also like to inform you that following the preparation of a report by the Commission on Science, Education and Sport on the Act on the change of the name of the Art University in Poznań to the University of Arts. Magdalena Abakanowicz and the Act to change the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow to the Academy of Music. Krzysztof Penderecki's agenda may be supplemented by these items. And that's the message. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 275 and the report of the committee In print No 275 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Marshal Maria Koc, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u6	Can I take my mask off, Mr. Marshal? [[You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, a meeting was held between the Joint Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law on amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has prepared a report, as the Marshal said, in print No 275 A And I would like to present this report to you. Dear Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, this is another amendment of the law. This time, the changes relate to a few areas that I would like to briefly present to you. First, the Act creates a legal basis enabling workers who remain isolated, i.e. they have been found to have coronavirus infection, remain isolated, but pass the disease in a asymptomatic or symptomatic manner, providing work in a remote manner. There are cases that workers feel good despite the infection with the coronavirus, remain isolated, but would like to take a remote job with the consent of the employer. And now this bill will make it possible for them. This is very important at a time when in many companies due to illness there is a shortage of employees. The second such area referred to in the Act is a change which aims to allow for suspended medical examinations and psychological tests as well as training and testing of railway drivers' knowledge, as well as periodic examinations of workers directly employed in stations related to the driving of certain railway vehicles and the safety of railway traffic. Because of the COVID-19 epidemic, these studies were suspended. Now they can be carried out again. And the novel also extends the validity of trainings and tests and periodic examinations for the above mentioned workers from 90 to 180 days from the date of the cancellation of the epidemic and epidemic condition. Thirdly, the novel provides that persons for whom the military qualification was not carried out in the calendar year in which they were 19 years of age will be subject to military qualification until the end of the calendar year in which they are 24 years old. In addition, military qualifications may be carried out in several periods of the calendar year. The fourth fundamental amendment concerns the repeal of the provisions of the Act of 31 March 2020, which concerned the principles and grounds for dismissing the members of the Social Dialogue Council. These provisions enabled the President of the Council of Ministers to dismiss a member of the Social Dialogue Council in specific situations such as the loss of confidence associated with the disclosure of a person's cooperation with State security authorities. This amendment will restore the legal situation before the amendment of 31 March 2020. And the fifth issue to which this amendment concerns is related, ladies and gentlemen, to the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays and holidays, and on some other days. This amendment provides for the possibility of trade next Sunday, 6 December 2020. The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. The Legislative Office did not have any legislative proposals for this law, but made comments on a very short period of time to carry out the legislative process in the Senate and later on in the case of the President. The legislator pointed out that both the Senate, which has 30 days to process the bill, as well as the President, who has 21 days to sign it, were in a sense deprived of constitutional time to work on the bill. The situation is difficult, the situation requires rapid action, of course, which we are aware of. Therefore, this time for work on the bill in both the Upper House and the President will be shortened. The discussion on the amendment of the law was brief and concerned in particular a provision enabling trade on Sunday 6 December. There were different voices here, among others. such as the earlier meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Committee, where the initiative of President Adam Szejnfeld was presented. Mr President, in his bill, proposes that trade be restored on all Sundays during the epidemic and after the epidemic. Well, a lot of the Senators in Law and Justice spoke critically about it. We have adopted a system solution that prohibits trade on Sundays, with some exceptions, and we believe that this is a very large convenience for workers, that there is a big achievement in terms of workers' rights. We want this solution to be preserved next year, as well as in the future. We would like to remind you that most of the people who work in commerce are women and they have called for trade to be abolished on Sundays. It just allows them to have a normal family life, a meeting with their family. So that, ladies and gentlemen, different views on this subject have been challenged. We also talked about amendments. Such initiatives were announced, it was said that amendments could be tabled, but in the end the senators withdrew from this, were to think about it and possibly submit these amendments at second reading. I don't know if that's gonna happen. We have also called for no amendments to be tabled. A proposal has been made to adopt this law without amendments so that it can go directly to second reading. If this recommendation is made by the Senate, this bill will go directly to the President's desk, it will not need to be directed with amendments to the Sejm. Well, today is Wednesday, and this important change concerns the nearest Sunday, December 6. In view of the above, the joint committees The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy invite the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal, for the comprehensive and objective report on the work of the committee. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the Members and the Government. Mr Dariusz Klimczak was authorised to present the position of the Members of the project's applicants. I do not see you in the sitting, but I see Minister Łukasz Schreiber, whom we are welcoming at this moment. Welcome to Minister Skurkiewicz and Mr Jarosław Wenderlich. Mr Krzysztof Szczucki is also with us. Hello to you, too. And Minister Andrzej Bittel... There isn't? There it is. Excuse me. I also see Mr. Chairman, but that's up to the next point. Hello, gentlemen. I understand Mr. Klimczak isn't here, and he's not, right? [[Voice from the room: Perhaps it will appear.]] Well, maybe he'll show up, but at the request of the PiS club, we're looking at it as point one, so it's a good idea for him to show up. We will therefore ask Minister Schreiber to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work. I will ask Minister Schreiber if he wishes to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government. The distance is preserved, so you can leave the mask to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It'll be very short. I think there is no need for me to say the same again after such an exhaustive report by the President. In fact, I would like to thank the Senate for being able to do this at such an extraordinarily pace, for having discussed yesterday at the meetings of the joint committees, and for this proposal to adopt this law without amendments. In fact, the only thing I want to limit myself to right now is to ask you to really direct this bill to the President without amendment. Not because it would be a problem for me personally, for the government or even for parliamentarians to gather on Friday, just because it would shorten the time for entrepreneurs to prepare for Sunday, December 6. Besides, there were no other reservations, e.g. There is nothing controversial about this law. I tried to keep it that way. I hope the High House will agree to this request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Minister, the senator will have a question for you. You can answer from your seat. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister about the article. 4 on trade on Sunday 6 June. [[December.]] Sorry, December 6th, of course. As we know, under the law currently in force, 2 Sundays before Easter and before Christmas are legally free. I admit that I don't really know why it was introduced on Sunday 6 December as an additional free. This is not enough, it violates a certain system and consensus, in which the trade law was developed on Sunday in the previous term, and it also resulted in a strong reaction of the trade union in this respect. I ask the Minister to justify this and tell him what the reasons are for introducing this Sunday on 6 December as a free one. And why conflict with a trade union and increase the potential danger of people being in one space and the possibility of COVID infection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u11	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, senators, sir, the intention of the government is not and has never been to conflict with anyone, but it is not that the government is bound by the position of each trade union, because it would be something completely abnormal. And that's the first thing. What's the reason? Well, I guess we're all aware of that. December is a holiday season, and this makes the scale of shopping sure to be much, much larger. This is shown by the results from all previous years. Spreading out this movement for an extra day... Well, here, of course, is a question of some kind of citizens' responsibility. You can imagine that everyone will go shopping at the gallery on all 3 Sundays, but I believe in common sense and responsibility of most Poles. So that's why we proposed it. I do not think that this 1 Sunday will break the social consensus around this issue. I would like to point out that in 2020 there was the least commercial Sunday in history. I hope that this 1st additional Sunday in a pandemic day will meet with the sympathetic acceptance and acceptance of the senators, but of course I respect that someone has the opposite opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u13	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And what is the government's attitude toward... Although this consensus has in a sense been adopted, projects are emerging to return to trade on Sundays during, generally speaking, the existence of an epidemic. So we're not talking about an exception here, we're talking about breaking that rule. And the second question about the Social Dialogue Council. In this law, we repeal the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to dismiss the members of the Council of Ministers, which concerns both the submission of a false illustrative statement and, let's call it an epidemic period. Were these provisions applicable? Has anyone been called off?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u15	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u16	Very briefly. As far as the application of these rules is concerned, no one has been called off to my knowledge. Nevertheless, this has aroused quite a lot of emotions in the Council of Social Dialogue itself. This amendment was simply not, you can say, well accepted. Moreover, it has led to some members leaving the Social Dialogue Council. We want to restore the state before March of this year and put out this unnecessary conflict for no one. We're trying to make it look like it was before. This is the first case. Now, here's the other thing. As far as commercial Sundays are concerned, as a government, we are in the position that the trade discussion has already taken place on all Sundays. This is a system matter. Parliament has made a decision and no one wants to change this. I say nobody in the sense that there are no such ideas in the government. I understand that this is a discussion that always arouses emotions. Both among the senators and probably among Poles, they are to some extent divided. But we are not talking about such system solutions. Surely the government will not encourage such solutions from the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u17	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Adam Szejnfeld is the first to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! We're talking about a bill that's hard to call rationally. Colloquially, you could say it's weird, it's a weird bill. Strange for a lot of reasons and because of constitutional, legal, legislative, and because of substance, or content, but also for socio-economic reasons. I'll start with the second point, which is the content. It's a bill that doesn't say anything de facto except one thing. That you came up with an idea a few days before 6 December to do a commercial Sunday on 6 December. Because a few of the rules that are added here are obvious. I don't think anyone here wants to question them or deny them. Few of this, last week we had 2 anti-covid laws, this week there are anti-covid laws, so I call all these shields and amendments to shields, and these few regulations could just appear there, be passed and already function. That's it. So I understand that it's actually just a frame, a housing, filling a certain surface so that December 6th is a commercial Sunday. But if so, then, of course, it's good. Because in this case, for example for social reasons and the situation that is always in trade in December, probably most senators will be in favour. But again, why do I say it's some kind of weird bill? Because a normal person, and certainly someone who manages such a big, important and serious organism as the state, which is Poland, knows that every year there are 4 Sundays in December and that on 6 December or on another date But this year, 2020, December 6th is Sunday. And it could have been six months ago, a year ago or three months ago, not a few days before. Dear people, what is the legislative path in Poland? First of all, the Seym. Yes? I'm skipping the preparatory work. Second, the Senate. Third, the Seym. Fourth, the president. Fifthly, the Journal of Laws, or publication. And six o'clock, vacathio legis. In accordance with the Constitution and the principles of good legislation, all these points in the legislative process must be taken into account, including as regards the requirements of the Constitution and Article. 2, i.e. the rule of law, other provisions of laws and judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. If you want to be right here, you should be right about breaking the Constitution and breaking the principles of good legislation. After all, the President himself has 21 days to sign the bill, and if there is an amendment here, the bill must return to the Sejm. So? The Seym will be on its way. Friday night, he's gonna sign the president on Saturday morning? Well, that's absurd. This is some kind of mill. This is chaos. This is not a rational management of the Polish state. This is an idea-to-idea run. From the practical point of view, if someone is not interested in legislation and constitution in our country, it is understanding, for example, the conditions of doing business. After all, trade is not an island that is separated from the entire supply chain from transport, from logistics, from wholesalers, from manufacturers. It is not that if people in business find out at night from Saturday to Sunday that this Sunday is a commercial, they will have time to sign contracts and these contracts are always charged with contractual penalties for not fulfilling them and that when it comes to logistics, transport, wholesalers, it will be time to deliver this product. And then we still have to sell it before it breaks down. But again, if it turned out, however, that the President would consider that he was not a legal entity who could force and reduce the 21 days he had to sign to 21 seconds or 21 minutes to think about it, and he would not have signed in time, or in the Official Journal of the Law this law would not have appeared, I am not even talking about the vacathio legis, because in this case we cannot even dream of any vacathio legis, so that all the entities concerned would be prepared to implement it, it may be such a situation that business in the hope that it will be a commercial Sunday will order the goods, but commercial Sunday will not be. And if some of the goods are wasted and it has to be wasted, who's gonna pay for it? Will the State pay compensation for the fact that someone has taken action in the hope that the entire legislative process will be carried out in those few days and then it has not been implemented? Well, something unbelievable, I'll tell you honestly, something unbelievable. And under these circumstances, to be honest, we should be against this bill. We should also make amendments here, because there are things to improve. And not because of you, the government, not because of the Law and Justice, because you rule our country badly, with negative consequences for the budget, for the economy, for the entrepreneurs, for the workers, for the citizens, but because of these citizens we will support this bill and because of these citizens we will not report amendments, even those that are asked for here. Because if one Sunday could be excluded from the trade ban, then there could be others, all of them, or at least the 27th of December, because she's ahead of New Year's Eve again, New Year's Eve, big break... And there's a reason... Because I would like to tell you, à speaking of Senator Jackowski's questions to the Minister, that the Minister explained in the joint economic, social and legislative committees why this Sunday should be free. I've noticed it, it's almost a quote. Firstly, trade should be extended to 7 days due to the epidemic. Secondly, human life and health must be the first priority. I am the one who wants to say that I absolutely agree, and we, as the Civic Coalition, agree with the Minister. Yes, these are very important arguments, which is why I took note of them. And that's why, in a completely different bill, which at the beginning here was confused with this law, there's a proposal that, as the Minister said, I'm gonna quote that one more time. Because trade should be extended to 7 days due to the epidemic, and human life and health must be the first priority, this trade should be extended. And that's why we're proposing that it's not just December 6th, for the piar effect, for the propaganda effect, as a Christmas gift, Santa Claus, just to cover all Sundays during the pandemic period, because of the need. But, I repeat, we are not going to make such a proposal, such an amendment, so that this bill will enter into force and that at least on this one day, although this one Sunday, people will be easier to shop and better prepared for Christmas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As independent senators, not only will we not report amendments to this law, but we will also not support any amendments, because we believe that this law covers some part of reality, but it is necessary. Both the issue of restoring trade next Sunday, as well as the other elements contained in it... Of course it needs to be sorted out. The attention of the Legislative Bureau, which talks about a short period of law adoption, is all the more encouraging to us, as I said, not only not to make any amendments, but not to support any amendments, so that the legislative process can end in the Senate and the proposal from this House can be signed by the President. So that these changes, which introduce the possibility of working people in quarantine, arrange matters related to the validity of medical examinations and admission to work or matters related to military qualification, are justified, because on the one hand they enable those who really want to work after consulting their employer, and on the other hand do not cause confusion in military commands of additions. In addition, I also draw attention to the fact that today in this project we do not decide whether to work on other Sundays. We will discuss such a project at the end of the meeting, it is in this project that the issue of restoring trade on all Sundays during the pandemic period. Today, this project only covers December 6th and that is why we will only speak in this respect. At the same time, I note that this approach from our side, from the independent senators, is a philosophy which we also presented in the work on the project of Shield 6.0. We have tabled a number of amendments to this project, from the assumption that it is worth introducing some changes in the various industries as soon as possible, when there is still a project. I hope that this philosophy of amendments to Shield 6.0 will also prevail at the seymary stage, i.e. there will be acceptance if not all, at least part of the Senate amendments to that project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to say yes. To be honest, I was surprised by this bill because, in fact, the time it appears, it's like five to twelve. Here I am thinking above all about commercial Sunday on 6 December. Indeed, Parliament, and the President, if this law were to enter into force And that's the will of the time. They're acting under some kind of time pressure. This is not good, in my opinion, for the legislative process. I would like to draw attention to this article. 4, which changes the catalogue of Sundays free of trade. Well, as you know, there was actually a discussion on the subject throughout the previous term of office. There was an idea that was supported by the Law and Justice and the United Right Camp to ban trade on Sundays. As we know, there's a special committee in the Sejm. Mr Śniadek, being in a very difficult situation, under fire from the supporters and opponents of this settlement, has developed a consensus on this matter, which has been put into effect for several months, so that in the following years the number of Sundays free from trade has been reduced in order to reach the present state, with a number of different exceptions being introduced in this law, exceptions which make trade partly possible on Sundays and in the pre-Christmas period, before Christmas and Easter holidays, 2 Sundays are legally available for trade. I don't see why this is going to change. The government says, because of COVID. But because of the COVID, the government introduces various restrictions on freedom of movement, movement or distance. There is some illogicalness here, because opening a shopping gallery, even with all these sanitary sharpenings, may result in an increase in the risk of coronavirus infection. If it wasn't, why would we even have any exacerbations? It wouldn't matter then. Well, it's either-or. In addition, I do not see much reason for the United Right camp to have a very difficult political situation in the current situation, for various reasons, this is not the time and place for me to develop this subject. It conflicted with another social environment, which has a very rigid position in this matter. In addition, under the influence of the "Solidarity" Sundays free of trade were included in the Law and Justice programme. I'm afraid the idea of December 6th, which is supposed to be an incident, a one-time... In a moment's time, we will see that the bill that we will proceed at the end of this sitting, the bill of Senator Szejnfeld, which introduces a record of all the open Sundays, so to speak, for trade, for the time of the pandemic... that there will be a sudden reversal from the current solution. Let me remind you that the solution limiting trade on Sundays was at the beginning of criticism, there was talk of mass redundancies of trade workers, it was said that the economic turnover in Poland would fall, it was said that the situation of the entire economy would be very difficult. But it turns out... There's been research, a lot of public opinion. was opposed to this ban, but after the bill was introduced moods changed, the acceptance level for trade-free Sundays increased, people got used to it somehow. And there were no risks to the economy that had been discussed before the introduction of restrictions. It seems to me that the introduction of this type of solution for the 12th time under the motto of the fight against COVID has far-reaching consequences. I stress: it has far-reaching consequences. Let me remind you that the motivation of the trade union was that trade workers could rest with their family on Sunday, not take a day off while their family members were busy. True, later solutions suggest that they have to have at least two Sundays off, with their family, but it doesn't change... I do not know why trade workers should be discriminated against, why they should have such limitations and only spend two Sundays a month with their family. High Izbo, because I have expressed these doubts... [[But all Sundays are free. All Sundays are free from January 1st, Mr. Senator.]] Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz, please don't disturb me. [[But I, in good faith...]] Mr. Senator, continue. You've got three minutes left. I therefore make an amendment to delete the article. 4 of this law, an article on Sunday 6 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u23	Thank you very much. Ad vocem, one minute, Mr. Senator Szejnfeld, because he was called by name.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u24	It'll be even shorter. I just don't see the law and justice colleagues following our agenda very much. Every now and then one of the senators calls my name and talks about some bill that refers to the suspension of the trade ban on Sundays. I want to tell you that this is a law you can call Szejnfeld 1, of course, then you won't be mistaken. We've already passed as Senate, she's in the Sejm waiting to be processed. We'll be sitting on the Szejnfeld 2 Act in January, I think. Today we have included the bill... let it be the Szejnfeld 3 Act. And this bill, Mr. Senator Jackowski and Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz... [[I'm just in good faith...]] ...he talks about it first and foremost... I would like you to remember this because it is fundamental, important for the economy and for entrepreneurs of the matter. Firstly, it provides for a pro-Citizen's interpretation of the law, i.e. it introduces solutions for ordinary Kowalski. Secondly, it provides for compensation for closed companies. And thirdly, the law introduces the right to suspend business activity during the pandemic period by the smallest Polish family companies, by micro-enterprises. That's what this bill is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u25	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for explaining, well, not about this bill, but the explanation is always valuable. The discussion is closed. For the record, Senators Benjamin Godyla and Alexander Swed have made their speeches in the minutes. I would like to inform you that your legislative proposals have been submitted by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, as you have just heard. In view of the approved agenda for voting immediately after that law, I ask for a communication.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly inform you that the joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals for the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 275, will take place 20 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in the session in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u27	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 1:10 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 07 to 13 minutes 11]] We're reconvening. We return to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 275 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Marshal Maria Koc, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the end of the session, a meeting of the joint committees was held: the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Social and Senior Policy. The Commission considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 2 December 2020 on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Commission shall present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate shall adopt the proposal set out in the first paragraph, i.e. adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u29	Thank you very much, Marshal. On the sidelines of your Marshal's appearance, but absolutely not personally... We have received information from the health inspector, an appeal, however, to appear in masks, even from this place, which is at a distance. So I call on the senators to adapt to this if there are no health reasons for it. Do the senators of the applicant want to speak again? I would like to remind you that your applications have been submitted by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. If not, then we shall proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are therefore voting on the proposal for a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 86 votes eight against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 229]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Municipal Government Act and some other laws. You are conducting further proceedings with Marshal Kaminski. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u30	I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. It is included in print No 216, and the committee's report In print No 216 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Let me present to you, on behalf of the Joint Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, a draft law amending the Municipal Government Act and some other laws. This project was submitted as a petition by the Civil Parliament of Seniors and the Novotar Council of Seniors and brought to the Senate. Senator Joanna Sekuła has been authorized to represent him. The present project aims primarily to extend the existing powers provided for municipal senior councils to the next levels of local government; here we are thinking about the district government and the local government. The provisions of this project introduce an exception to the rule for municipal senior councils, i.e. the possibility of compulsory appointment of municipal senior councils. There was a record that this would happen at a time when at least 100 inhabitants, each of whom had reached the age of sixty, would have applied in municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants. This would be a mandatory condition for setting up a municipal council of seniors, contrary to the existing optional option. The subsequent provisions of this project provided for the extension of the powers of the three levels of local senior councils to the possibility of financing them. In the project records, the possibility of funding was to grant members of the board of seniors whether it was a diet or reimbursement of travel expenses or reimbursement of training costs. The principles on which this was to be done were to be regulated in the Statute, in a resolution establishing and forming local council of seniors, municipal council of seniors. The provisions of the submitted project also provided for Depending on the decision of the municipality authorities, the possibility of insurance against civil liability and health insurance of members of municipal senior councils. The same solutions have been written down... This is also foreseen at the district and voivodship level. During the committee meeting, the applicant spoke about the legislation introduced in 2013 which introduced the possibility of setting up and functioning senior councils, and this allowed for an increase in the activity of this particular social group. The senator also talked about the invaluable role of seniors, their potential, experience, role, but above all competence for the functioning of the local government, where their role was not only consultative but also consultative and initiativeful. She also talked about such an important issue as restrictions on the functioning of senior councils. These are due to a lack of funding for their actions. During the debate, they spoke in turn... First, you spoke with the director of the Department of Senior Policy at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mrs Lidia Ułanowska. Another was asked to speak to the Deputy Director of the Department of Public Administration at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr.Szymon Wróbel. Of course, they were talking about supporting all actions taken by seniors' councils, but their doubts were raised by the mandatory appointment of senior councils and the provision of funding, whether it's a diet, or insurance against civil liability and medical insurance. Further votes, this time the senators, expressed absolute support for the idea of creating such advice at the next levels of local government, but here also there were doubts. These included the mandatory calling, the formation of advice and the way in which they were financed. That was also the voice presented by Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. He mentioned that he was also speaking on behalf of the Association of Polish Cities, which he is President of. The senator has asked for the amendments he has tabled. In their records, they removed the obligation as regards the municipal government. Amendments were also proposed that instead of simply writing about the financing of diets, travel expenses or participation in trainings, they should include a provision indicating that individual local authorities would provide the means necessary to carry out the statutory tasks of senior councils. Mr. Senator Czerwiński also expressed his doubts about this obligation regarding the provision of health insurance by the executive body of the local government. Another voice, the voice of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, or experienced self-government officer, confirmed these earlier doubts. Three amendments were tabled during the joint committee meeting. The latter concerned a change in the record of providing the necessary means to carry out the statutory tasks of municipal, district and voivodship councils of seniors. The adoption of these amendments made amendment 4 unobtrusive, which said that health insurance should also be excluded from these provisions. Let us sum up: on 27 October, the joint committees examined the draft submitted by the applicants at first reading, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform bill and a draft resolution on bringing it to the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I had a few questions. You have already answered a part of it in your report, but I would like to ask you two more questions. Who will be able to become a member of the municipal council of seniors, the county council of seniors and the provincial council of seniors, and for what time will they be appointed? Will there be an upper limit to funding such advice? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u34	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u35	Thank you very much. As regards matters relating to the functioning of councils, the possibility to participate in the work of municipal, district councils and those from the level of the voivodship self-government will be included in the statutes which will be adopted by individual local authorities. Well, such a limit for those who wish to participate in the work of these counsels is the age of 60 years. This is the limit of senior age adopted in the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u37	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna ask you to clarify. I understand that these amendments, which concerned obligationability, were supported by the committee. The joint committee's opinion on these amendments is positive, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u38	As far as obligation is concerned, I'm afraid not. These amendments were not supported by the senators. However, it was considered that the freedom to create such advice should remain in the hands of the local government, that the obligation to... [[If it is to remain in the hands of the local government, it means that they are not mandatory.]] They're not. This record is left of optional advice creation. [[About optionality?]] Yes. [[So it's not mandatory?]] It won't. Yeah, yeah. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I talked about this at the committee meeting. Namely, I lack some symmetry in the tasks of the commune and district. As long as we add in the tasks of our own municipalities, in point 16a, the task of conducting senior policy, we do not add this in the tasks of our own district. Question: "Can this then interfere with the possible implementation of individual tasks?" 'Cause the county's definitely dealing with seniors. If the voivodship can be less, because it rather has other tasks, but the county certainly does, because it runs institutions, e.g. Social services homes. Do you not therefore think that the text should be supplemented by one of the own tasks of the counties, i.e. to amend the District Government Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u42	Thank you so much for that question. Yes, it appeared in Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's speech at the committee meeting. Indeed, we add this when it comes to local government, at a point that talks about meeting the collective needs of the community. And these tasks include, in particular, their own tasks involving... This is where we add senior policy. We talked about this at the committee meeting and you suggested... I think it would be a good time for the senator to say so, and we, as the House, will decide. As I am, as a senator, if you ask, I believe that yes, I am really in favour of including this in the county's tasks as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u43	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Stanislaw Gogach's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u44	I have the following question for the senator of the rapporteur: are these tasks that will be carried out now, if, of course, we adopt this law, by the senior council... Tell me, will the moment we adopt this bill begin to create these senior councils from the beginning when it comes to the personal composition, the appointment of the tasks to be carried out? Is it that we are going to formalize in some sense what already exists in municipalities, counties and seymics, or are we just starting the whole process of creating something completely from the beginning?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u46	Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. As far as the municipal level is concerned, it will be a continuation and here, if that's what the senator is asking, nothing will change. There will be changes in the records about the possibilities of funding by the local government, and the absolutely new entries that will appear will be the basis for creating councils just in the county governments and local governments of the voivodship. There it will indeed be a process as if new, because it will be possible to submit a proposal, to create provisions on statutes and to create these councils. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, one more question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u47	Thank you very much. Please, of course you can ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u48	My point is whether there are groups of seniors, groups of people who, according to our law, would constitute these advices now in the counties and in the Seyms of voivodships. Are there such non-formal groups, i.e. do the counties still benefit from this aid, but in an informal manner?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u49	Of course, this was also discussed at the committee meeting. We are aware that such groups are functioning, but at the moment they will be able to do so in a formal manner and will be able to benefit from funding at the various levels of the local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u50	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u51	Thank you. First question. Is there a framework statute, or is it a statute that they will adopt themselves? Will the government define it and accept it, or will they accept it? Second question. It's like that. When it comes to the Soviet Fund, which is our initiative, it is determined that the authorities are the Soviet Councils. So we already know who represents the chief and the council. But they've been granted a certain percentage of their income. The question in this case is, is there a limit? Because the incentive to act was that the Sołecki Fund was partly financed by the additions of the state budget, depending on the commitment. Therefore, the question is: is there a mechanism connected here, or is there only voluntaryity? Can it admit, is there a minimum and maximum margin, or is there no percentage? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u52	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u53	Thank you so much for these questions. I think that the creation of statutes of councils of individual levels of local governments will be agreed with an initiative group and, of course, with the councils of individual levels of voivodships. I think so, because that's what it's been like so far. So it'll be a good habit to continue this. There will be joint work, and later it will be approved by individual councils. As far as funding is concerned, it will be from the resources of local governments at different levels. But I'm sure the thought that the senator called, that it would be partly financed by the state budget, would be another step. And we're probably going to encourage that, and we're going to talk about it so that maybe some of these tasks can be financed by the state budget. That's a very good idea. Thank you for that. And perhaps the applicant, who will be taking the floor, will think that perhaps such tasks could be carried out not only from the resources of individual local authorities, but also from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u54	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u55	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, I'll remind you of the second part of my first question. I asked, for what time will the municipal, county and provincial senior council be appointed, and will it in any way depend on the cadency of the local government? I'd also like to ask. Because I noticed that the impact assessment of the regulation attached to the draft in point 5 contains information on the scope, duration and summary of the results of the consultation, but the box is empty Was this project, however, consulted with local governments or government parties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u56	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u57	Thank you very much. As far as cadence is concerned, it will absolutely be regulated in the statutes again. Here, these records will be able to find out if they're there. In the meantime, After this project was submitted, requests were sent to various levels of the local government to present their views, but not only. We've received dozens of such opinions. They've reached the committee. Perhaps I can't name all the bodies whose opinions have arrived. The Pomeranian Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (Pomeranian Council). Senior Policy, District Social Council of Seniors in Chojnice, Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts. Of course, there was a consultation on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Opinions of the Management Board of the Polish Union of Retirement, Retirement and Invalids were also presented. There are opinions from the Opole Voivodship, from the Silesian Voivodship. The President of the National Health Fund and the Ministry of Health also sent his opinion. We also received the position of the National Federation of Associations of Third Century Universities in this consultation. And there were a few other opinions. So these opinions during the consultation were absolutely and all the senators had the opportunity to get acquainted with them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u58	Thank you very much. No further questions. Is the government representative... [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? The Secretary of State is with us, Mr. Paweł Chezernaker. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For some time now, there have been calls for this type of consultative body to be set up at the level of the local government. Such postulates also appeared in the laws which are in the Sejm. I would like to present to you the position of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Of course, we are generally positive about the emergence of this type of opinion-making bodies. We believe that the activation of older people is extremely important for the smooth functioning of local communities. We know from experience that at the municipal level there are 380 such councils. 380 councils per 2,000 477 municipalities in Poland give more than 15% municipalities in which such advisory bodies are set up. At the level of powiats and voivodships, of course, there are no such bodies at present, this project will give this possibility. Personally, I believe that the municipalities, opening themselves to the needs of older people by obtaining the opinion of such bodies as the law provides, will gain additional knowledge which they will be able to use to effectively carry out their tasks, in particular regional policy. I would like to thank you for this work that has been done at committee level. These changes have been made, which were requested by the local government, but also in the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, these changes are legitimate changes. It will be a task that the local government will be able to carry out on the basis of the law, not as it has so far. Thus, in principle, we support such changes, which are not only in this law, but, as I said, also in the laws whose projects are in the Sejm, in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a coincidence that the Senate is once again dealing with the issues of the elderly in the last few weeks. Of course, we remember that it is almost 9 million citizens and a citizen in Poland, but we also remember the words of Krystyna Lewkowicz, president of the Civil Parliament of Seniors' Bureau, who hosted him in the Senate quite recently, because a few weeks ago She thanked the Senate Marshal for the symbolic patronage of the senior movement in Poland. I have been attending these meetings and during these sessions, in the rounds of this meeting, among others. The seniors attending the Parliamentary meeting approached us, the senators of the sitting, talking about the need for such regulation. They talked about the need for such regulation, although at the level of the sejm there are already various voivodship councils. Let me remind you that based on e.g. Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities function the voivodship social councils for people with disabilities as consultative and advisory bodies, and about such competences of senior councils at the level of powiats or seymikas of voivodships we talk about. These goals are With this type of initiative Inspire projects aimed at the professional integration of people of this age, opinions on actions for seniors or opinions on draft resolutions or programmes implemented by powiats, whether by voivodship sejmikas. That is why this initiative seems to be well founded. We also remember that on 14 October the Senate adopted a resolution commemorating the 45th anniversary of the movement of universities of the third century, unique in the best sense of the word The phenomenon in Poland, because we were the second country in which universities of the third century were established, and today we can say that in Poland this phenomenon has developed in a special way, because in our country there are 600 universities of the third century, which have about 200 thousand listeners. That is why I am very pleased with the Minister's position, because the government in principle supports this initiative, and in fact that the Senate's legislative initiative will provide the legal basis for establishing senior councils at the county and voivodeship level, because it is absolutely legitimate. Local authorities must also have a clear legal basis for their appointment, giving them statutes and cooperation with such councils, in order to cooperate with such councils. That is why I believe that this law, this legislative initiative, is extremely necessary, legitimate and very well that such a project in the Senate has emerged. I am pleased that the Legislative Commission could also add a brick to its work on the final shape of this project, which I hope will be adopted immediately at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased today that we are proceding this law, which seniors, represented by many local communities, were expecting, because the problem of seniors in Poland has been raised so strongly that the whole society, and at the district level, and at the voivodeship level, will see that the involvement of seniors, with their knowledge, experience, willingness to support local authorities and citizens' initiatives, will finally be given the opportunity to institutionally confirm this fact. I'd like to thank you very much from this place. The National Agreement on Cooperation of Senior Councils, represented by you by Barbara Szafraniec, who as one of many... But it was thanks to her initiative that a nationwide network of senior council cooperation was established, which contributed to a large extent to the fact that they were brought into the debate on issues related to the institutional interaction of seniors with local authorities. I am very pleased that the High Senate has taken this initiative, and I hope that today or tomorrow we will adopt the project that seniors are waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Benjamin Godyla and Ryszard Świlski made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to respond to the request? No. Thank you very much. Since a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. And I request that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. The senate has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft act on the repeal of the Act on the National Media Council. Thank you very much, Minister, for being here. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Culture and Media and is included in print 152 and the committee's report In print No 152 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In February this year, a letter from the Ombudsman, Dr. Hab, was received by the Senate Marshal, Prof. Tomasz Grodzki. Adam Bodnar asked the Senate to consider action to amend the existing provisions of the Radio and Television Act and the Act on the National Media Council. As indicated in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016, the Marshal sent a letter to the Committee on Culture and Media, which prepared this draft, which he discussed at its meeting on 16 June 2020. I would like to point out here that the Ombudsman also addressed the Minister of Culture, Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, on this matter. On the same matter, the Deputy Prime Minister also spoke to her President, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, on behalf of the National Council for Radiophony and Television. Mr Marshal sent a letter to the Committee on Culture and, therefore, together with the Legislative Office, he prepared a draft which was examined at the meeting on 16 June and aimed at further legislative work. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerned the 2015 Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. It delegated powers to appoint and remove boards and supervisory boards of public media to the Minister of the Treasury. It was temporary. It was replaced by the Act on the National Media Council, which was not the subject of an evaluation by the Constitutional Tribunal. However, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that it was unconstitutional to exclude the National Radio and Television Council from the procedure for the seat of public broadcasting companies. It is therefore necessary to amend the provisions of the Radio and Television Act in this respect and to include the National Radio and Television Council in the procedure for the dismissal and appointment of public media authorities. The draft submitted to you was consulted both in the Committee on Culture and in the Legislative Committee, which examined the draft at its meeting on 20 October 2020. Amendments were tabled during the meeting, resulting inter alia. from the public consultation and opinions sent to the Legislative Commission and the Culture Committee. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] No, I'm not done yet, Mrs. Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Uh, excuse me. There you go.]] The Act of 22 June 2016 on the National Media Council transferred the powers of the Minister responsible for State treasury matters to a newly created public administration body, the National Media Council. However, the current legal situation does not change views or the opinion of the Constitutional Tribunal, which did not assess whether the cultivations in question were carried out by the Minister or by the National Media Council, but whether the National Radio and Television Council as a body designated by the body responsible for the exercise of these powers had a proper role. The provisions of the Act transfer tasks taken from the National Council by the 2015 Act and transferred to the Minister responsible for State Treasury and then to the non-constitutional body, the National Media Council, back to the National Council. The National Media Council is also abolished. After the transfer of tasks to the National Council of National Media as an organ without competence, it becomes redundant. Because the National Media Council does not have its own operating equipment, its own employees It is operated by the staff of the Sejm Chancellery There is no need to regulate further the fate of this camera. A competitive procedure is proposed to fill members of boards and supervisory boards of public broadcasting companies. The contest procedure will also apply to members of programme councils who are not representatives of parliamentary groups. The rules on competitions will be issued by the National Radio and Television Council. The number of members of the Management Board is proposed to be limited to 1. The powers of the National Media Council regarding the Polish Press Agency are transferred to the supervisory board of the PAP or the Minister of Culture, and some of them are abolished entirely. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the project has been evaluated, among others. by your Deputy Prime Minister, Piotr Gliński, who had a negative reaction to him. In his opinion, referring to the High Senate, to the committee, the Deputy Prime Minister wrote that, given the fact that the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal referred to non-binding legislation, there was no formal need to make legal changes. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal did not result in the repeal or finding that the applicable law was not constitutional. It is therefore not necessary, in the opinion of the Ministry of Culture, to take a legislative initiative to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote this letter because that is the sentence Not just Minister Gliński. Such voices were also heard at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, as well as at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Culture and Communications and the Legislative Committee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister of Culture has thus changed his mind. No, he changed his mind with regard to his own opinion of 13 July 2017, in which he stated that the judgment considered, however, that it was not constitutional to exclude the participation of the National Council from the procedure for the seat of public companies of radio and television broadcasting, and therefore it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Radio and Television Act in this respect and to include the National Council in the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of public media authorities. At present, the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the National Council, is considering possible solutions for the appointment and dismissal of public broadcasting bodies in order to ensure compliance of the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Solutions in this area should be prepared by the end of the year. I would remind you that this letter to the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, is dated 13 July 2017. So that since then, the Minister has not submitted any project, changed his mind. But the sentence remains a sentence and is still valid. And quoting these opinions suggests that some of these opinions are evidently motivated by motives, perhaps other than substance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the committees at the joint meeting on 27 October 2020 considered, at first reading, the draft law presented by the applicants, amended it and asked the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. There are two signatures here, mine and the chairman of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons beyond the control of both committees after the meeting of the committee, we have received three further proposals from the Legislative Bureau, which are of a purely technical and orderly nature. They are not substantive, but we would like to bring them in so that the law is fully formulated. So that I may now hand over these amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau and ask for a committee meeting to be convened at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, the question is simple. I asked them at the committee meeting, but I would also like to have the answer to them here in plenary. Is this procedure, in which we are at the moment, a procedure carried out in a special way, a special procedure described in the Senate Rules on how the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are carried out, or is it a different procedure, simply linked to the initiative of the committee which you represent?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u68	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u69	Yes, this is done in the ordinary procedure for all our legislative initiatives, committees or individual senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u70	Thank you very much. [[Then... if I may, Mrs. Marshal...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u71	You have often referred to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal here. But I understand that we do not have to execute this judgment, at least no one in the Legislative Commission has been informed that such a judgment must be enforced. Do you have any information that any body, outside the culture committee, has claimed that such a sentence should be executed? E.g. In particular, the Government Legislation Center? Did another authority state that there is a need for such a judgment? I ask because individual bodies, institutions that have the possibility Whether it's the government or in this case the Senate, but also the Sejm, because a group of Members can also take they could be guided in some way by their views on this matter. So I ask: is there any other body outside the senate committee of culture, or has any other body found a need or felt capable of carrying out this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which you often referred to here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u72	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u73	Dear Senator, you are asking whether another body has recognised the same as the two Senate committees. Yes, this body is an ombudsman who directly asked us to implement this judgment. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Ombudsman spoke to the government on this issue and received information. I was just quoting this letter, hoping you wouldn't ask me the same question again. But I answer, even many times, very much. Minister Gliński, in his reply, as you just heard, considered that the current legal situation should be changed and promised that he would take care of it. He hasn't taken care of it so far. I would also like to point out that the National Radio and Television Council has also asked the Minister of Culture to resolve this problem. Since he hasn't had a reaction in three years, the Senate has taken care of it. I think it's very good that he took care of it. I would also like to point out that this sentence exists, Senator, and whether we say that we respect it or not. I respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court, and you may not accept this judgment of the Constitutional Court, because it exists. And I can quote a large part of it, in which it is justified why the withdrawal of the National Radio and Television Council's powers is incompatible in some part with the constitution. And I'm not talking about this bill here, which concerns the transfer of powers to the treasure minister, but I'm saying that this mistake has not been corrected so far, and we are trying to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u74	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to refer to this because there are new threads about what the senator said.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u75	First line. Is this the final and current opinion of the Minister of Culture? Second line. That last question you didn't understand. There is a certain catalogue of entities which may come up with a legislative initiative, i.e. directly execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, e.g. Some kind of jurisdictional sentence. Have any of these entities, outside the Committee on Culture, taken such an initiative? I don't know if I'm making myself clear or if it's understandable. I don't mean what all the actors have said about it, because there are plenty of these institutions in Poland. I am referring to those institutions which may exist in such a process, i.e. those which have a legislative initiative. This directory is strictly defined.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u76	Dear Senator, in my opinion, this is completely irrelevant if we take such an initiative and joint committees believe that it is right, and it is also supported by other actors who have expressed such an opinion. Although, like I said, these opinions are different. Some of the opinions sent to us are similar to the ones you expressed at the committee meeting and today, intentionally, as I can imagine. Is that the final opinion of the Minister of Culture? I don't know. Since the Minister has changed his opinion, it is difficult for me to wonder if he will change that opinion again. I think it's a very bad habit... It's a good thing you're... Thank you for this question about the position of Minister of Culture. I was gonna say we got it in writing. This letter was actually a repetition of the June letter which had been sent to the cultural committee earlier. Also representatives of the Ministry... the Minister was personally invited to a meeting of the cultural committee on several occasions. It has already been a year since the beginning of his term of office and the Minister has not honoured us with his presence in any sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u77	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] A representative of the National Media Council was invited to the meeting, but unfortunately he did not attend. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This law shows how incoherence of law and justice and how the constitution is treated. The Act on the National Media Council gave this Council some constitutional powers, which are enshrined in the Constitution, the institutions of the National Radio and Television Council. I am surprised that Minister Gliński, in his last opinion, does not see any legal problems here, that it is lawful, does not include the constitution as a source of the law. So it's in line with the bill that PiS passed, and the constitution... well, the constitution has to adapt. This is not a one-time example of such an attitude towards the Constitution. This was the case in many cases, in the case of many laws we discussed, such an approach, destroying the rule of law in Poland, is applied by the governing group. But the even bigger psychic is that we have two opinions. First, Minister Gliński says that it is necessary to withdraw from this, that this regulation is not good, it is not legal, and then, in the second opinion, it denies itself and writes: it is compatible, everything is fine, there is no problem, when the new law is passed, there is no problem. Well, there is a problem, and this problem has already been noticed by the institution under the guidance of Judge Przyłębska. It was this institution that noticed it. The ruling comes from this institution, not from the opposition, but from yours, the Dear members of the PiS. This is clear from the very beginning. We talked about this at a time when we were discussing this new idea about the National Media Council. We said it was against the constitution. We have said that taking away the powers of an institution which is enshrined in the Constitution, i.e. extortion in principle of the most important powers concerning the appointment of heads of television or radio station, is a violation of the basic law. And not only is it a violation, but it has led to duality. After all, when we have comments about the functioning of public television, we hear: well, we can judge there somehow, although we do not do it because we do not have money, but the basic issue of calling, dismissing... And yet what is happening on public television is related to its president, Jack Kurski, his relationship with the truth, his relationship with opposition, his views on journalism. You can't separate it. And here it's been separated. Even if the National Radio and Television Council shared such allegations, there was nothing they could do, because personal decisions are related to the evaluation of institutions. For me, the assessment of public television is an assessment of an institution that disinformation, does not tell the truth or tells selective and electoral truth. The operation of this television is an extension of government propaganda. And you can see that. Its action is an extension and support of the PiS election campaign. The head of this television said, if it weren't for me, if it wasn't for public television, which is my television. Because he treats our TV as his property President Duda wouldn't win the election. I agree with him in this case. We see what TVP has been doing recently in a situation of threat of veto and blocking by the PiS government, which is, of course, the Polish government, because PiS rules in Poland... On TVP, we hear it's not a problem. The fact that we will not receive money from the European Union, we will not receive billions of euros, that is not a problem. We hear that we basically don't need that kind of ugly money, that we don't need that money, that we're gonna be okay, that nothing's gonna happen. Well, it's a narrative... it's misleading citizens, it's pure propaganda. I repeat: this is misleading citizens. We all know that's not true. and that if we do not receive EU support, we will either stay in development or go back. So what? The money we received was unnecessary to us, didn't they change Poland? Can we not see how they changed Poland? We have to put up with this duality. This must be done because it has violated the principles of the Constitution. Our initiative has nothing to do with the fact that other institutions have not dealt with this matter. This is an additional argument confirming that it was a good thing that the Senate took care of her. I hope that this will somehow trigger a reaction, a change of government position, and precisely the Prime Minister of Gliński. Because if Prime Minister Gliński changes his position every now and then, I hope he will support this bill. Too bad he's not here. Too bad he's not here. He could then be asked what his position is at the moment, because we have two conflicting positions. Of course, according to law, the last position is the most important one, as if it were eliminating the previous position. [[Voice from the room: This is...]] Yeah, yeah. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes...]] But that doesn't change the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister, who is radically changing his position First he says yes and then he doesn't take it seriously.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! The media has always aroused great emotions in this House, and today it is so peaceful. Have we all become accustomed to what these public media in Poland look like? I think that's a question that each of us should ask ourselves in our own conscience. Well, that's probably what happens, I mean. This multi-year propaganda on television has changed not only the perception of reality by some viewers, but also led to the fact that public media has ceased to be a matter that we are all interested in. This is also related, perhaps above all, to the COVID epidemic, but also to other issues that deal with public opinion in a clear way, e.g. Social protests. I would like to point out that during the Women's Strike recently, one of the manifestations came under the seat of public television, expressing its outrage about how public media work. I would like to remind you that in 2016 there were very large manifestations across Poland, called for pluralist media, media that would be independent of the ruling party, protested against the changes I was talking about today, presenting a draft law. Some of you may remember December 2015, when two months after the elections were won, changes were made to the Radio and Television Act. So that at the very end of the year, for the holidays and for the new year, we got a gift from a new government that cared so much, he changed his legs to make changes immediately... It was then that this famous scandalous project was introduced, which passed on competence to all the personal changes of the treasure minister. And then the tragic process of changes in public media in Poland began, tragic in effect, because it led to the total dependence of the media on the rulers and deprivation of any influence in this area. not only the opposition, but also among others. The National Radio and Television Council, which we are talking about today in our project. I remind you that the National Media Council has five members, two appoints the Sejm, one Senate and two presidents. There are no restrictions on membership in the National Media Council, i.e. you can join party membership and sit on the National Media Council, so that you can be a Member or a Senator at the same time... There are no restrictions actually, that is, any politically involved person, a party member may be a member of the National Media Council. And, as you know, some of these people are sitting there. Financially and organisationally, the National Media Council belongs to the Sejm Chancellery, so thanks to the Act of the Sejm de facto took direct control over how the National Media Council works. I would also like to add that practically no member of the National Media Council can be dismissed. What does that mean? This means that even if this power comes to the end of the term of office, this National Media Council will continue to act and will continue to rule according to its own party will, because it is a political and party body which has a three-member majority in each vote, and the chairman of this board has very high personal powers. I remind you that 230 journalists, publishers and producers left the Polish Television, either they were fired or left at their own request, unable to simply stand there. The biggest changes took place in TVP Info and in news news, which became part of purely party and purely government propaganda. Paradoxically, it gained private television, which took over part of the audience and took the place of public media. The number of public media viewers has also been reduced at this time. We are also talking about Polish Radio, some of the listeners just moved to competition. The one who used to be on the podium left this place, and what happened to the Three is you know very well, because this year it lasted, it was the end, bringing the Polish Radio and Television to a fall. Mr. Marshal said that when it comes to the media, it's not okay. As far as the media are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, nothing is right. It is not right that the laws governing this matter are not right that the government has promised specific legal regulations, even tried to do so, and it has not done so. It's really not okay. And finally, it's not okay that we finance public media from the state budget. in such huge amounts. The next year's budget provides for another 2 billion on TVP, and so far, in 2017-2020, TVP received the most public aid, a total of PLN 4.8 billion. In this respect, the public broadcaster overcame all other state-owned companies, e.g. The Company of Restructuring of Mine, which received slightly more than 3 billion, or PKP Intercity. A great deal of public aid to the media is what is a huge scandal, especially during the outbreak of Coronavirus. We've been applying for budget money instead of TVP and radio to fight the epidemic, but it's all been met with a lack of response, and no one has responded. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Because, in addition to taking over the prosecution's office and taking over the courts, the acquisition of the media was the most important thing for this government. The fact that at least some TVP viewers or radio listeners see reality now depends on these... is defined by public media. We have proved many times in this Chamber, at committee meetings, how much they have had to do with it. I will only remind you that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. We then called for these media to be objective. This has not been heard in any of the subjects of the Senate's work. The Committee on Culture and Media also adopted on 3 February 2020 the position of the Committee on Culture on the right to reliable information and public media. I'll finish up in a minute, because I'm running out of time. A few more things I'm about to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u82	Let me take my mask off while I'm performing. Well, what is there to say, if someone followed the annual reports of the National Media Council of its activities, it might say that there is no activity in these reports, these are just statistics, figures, statements of money spent, reference to statutes. And that's it. The National Media Council is really the bang that our government, our government, has set up so that it can control information policy or cultural policy or media policy in Poland. It's not the first time the National Media Council has been compromised. The biggest embarrassment of this council is the fact that, at the request of the President of public television, he will dismiss the President of public television only so that the President can allocate PLN 2 billion to public television and that immediately after the President makes this act, he will appoint the same former President of public television to the same position. This is simply a disgrace to five members of the National Media Council. It should be fair to say that the additional flaw is that three members of the board are from one party option and that the other two members of the board are permanently objecting to the decisions taken by the council. So, for a good cause, the council is ruled by three people. The National Media Council can't prove anything. Not only is there no proposal to improve the relations of national media, radio, television, Polish society and actions for this society, but it simply passively follows all the commands it receives. Why? Because, in my opinion, as in many people's opinion, it has been set up with a view to ensuring a position and paying Mr Czabanski, who cannot manage the National Media Council on his own, so that those accompanying him are faithfully subject to all recommendations and orders. There's no media policy, there's no cooperation with NGOs, there's no other media, there's no media. You don't see it. There is no relationship, even with journalists, with any advisory team. In addition, the National Media Council took over some of the tasks that belonged to the responsibilities of the National Radio and Television Council, and the most important part that it took over is the nomination of supervisory boards. What's all this for? In order to have a great impact on those who will be part of the supervisory boards of regional, radio and television centres as well as public television antennas. I think it's the taxpayers who pay for this. To be noted: high wages The members of the National Media Council are transferred from their earnings, i.e. from the state budget... The pity of this money simply has to be allocated to other, more important goals, because all these years of activity the National Media Council has shown that it does not actually exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm on two points. The first one is historical. I'll tell you right away, there's no doubt that when the password came up, not to pay the subscription, because the quality of television was questionable. However, I was in favour of paying this subscription and treated public television, national media as part of the Polish state's right. Today it seems to me that more likely or more true is the task that public media There's no more that it's not even government media, it's party media. Therefore, this subscription, which at the time raised doubts, must raise even more doubts. The second issue that sometimes arises outside the Senate, at the Senate committee meetings, is that of my political formation, PO, and PSL, but also of others, that when we had power, we did not offer anything in this matter. I want to deny it, say it wasn't. Two laws were drawn up, one of which went through the whole legislative process and was effectively vetoed by the President. Why am I going back to this? Because at the time we were checking 2 extremely important elements related to the financing of public media. We knew that acceptable public aid It doesn't matter what scale it is. It will be acceptable if public television on the economic market, on the media market, for example, is not used. the same right to advertising as other televisions, in this case private today. I would also like to point out that then it was estimated that the possible take-offs resulting from the non-payment of the subscription would be between PLN 350 million and PLN 400 million. The Minister of Finance of that time declared the possibility of paying some compensation of about PLN 500.700 million. In this regard, little has changed since that declaration, but we already have almost a 5-billion-dollar public aid for television, which I will emphasise once again. The public is definitely not. This is a budget similar to the annual budget of the Ministry of Culture for all cultural institutions, the Ministry itself, all monuments, all grants, all forms of aid. We are dealing with an outrageous thing. What's the TV like today? What kind of public radio is it? Well, they're full of cynicism, selectiveness, partyism, extremely expensive, with the domination of instrumental functions, nothing to do with integrity. This is being done by an institution that should control this situation, but it is a constitutional puriazum itself. And in my opinion, it is not only worth supporting the completion of the process of existence in the legal market of an even disgraceful institution, an institution which has no right to exist, an institution which, according to what Marshal Borusewicz said, has taken away constitutional powers from another entity included in this constitution... I also believe that today public media should continue to be such a part of our state of affairs. But once again, they're not. Today, what unfortunately is characteristic of public media, is a narrowly understood partyism, which is already contrary to the Polish state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u85	Thank you very much. And there you go, Senator, five extra minutes. Yes? There you go, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'm already very quick... It is good that my previous speaker once again mentioned the subscription and the huge amounts. Let me remind you: PLN 4 billion 800 million in recent years and PLN 2 billion next year. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not our last legislative initiative. "To liquidate the National Media Council, which was only able to compromise in fact and contribute to the collapse of the media in Poland. I would like to inform you that our next initiative will be to prepare a law on the liquidation of a television subscription. At a time when such huge, giant amounts from the state budget go to TVP, there is no reason for citizens to fund these media additionally from their danins. It's not gonna be okay. Previous Boards of Polish Television, with difficulties, but managed to manage, using only a subscription. Now we're dealing with huge amounts. The number of viewers is steadily falling, the quality of television is dramatic. I'm not talking about practically disappearing, apart from some channels, a high culture. In these main channels, we are dealing with programmes of low social and cultural quality. These are programs calling for revenge to heaven that defy the dignity of the viewers and offend the intelligence of the viewers who are watching this. So that, as I say, the next legislative step after this step, which concerns the liquidation of the National Media Council, will be the act eliminating the television subscription, and we will make such a proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short, because there's actually no, say, page to which I could direct my words. With all the arguments that have been put forward, I agree and will not repeat them, although I have plenty of them. But for a moment, I began to wonder if I should vote in favour of this bill, a resolution, because... soon the power could change. And I think it's gonna change. What if... what position would the current government have taken if all the powers that the National Media Council has passed on to the ruling party? What's my point? The politicisation of the media and what the current authority has done with the media, politicising them, stubbornly, has caused us to live in a country in which the dominance of one party using a party tool, because national media today is a party tool... What do you think people who aren't on the right today, only the senator is left in the battle square... How would they have behaved if suddenly the power had changed and all these powers, these giant tools, these giant money had gone to the other side and been used by the new power if the party that came to this power had used these tools? Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to an empty room. You've led to pathology. This is a pathology that Poland has not seen since 1989, since communism. You use public media, national media for your private, particular, party purposes. And I'd like to ask you a question, but I have no one to direct it to: aren't you just ashamed? Aren't you ashamed? Because cheating citizens and pretending you're on a mission... Sooner or later, citizens will understand, and they'll settle it for you. I think it's sooner than later. So I will vote in favour, although you would like to use all these powers against those who have led to this pathology. I hope that these people will be accounted for, because Poland loses on it, and the citizen who is cheated for his own money, sooner or later, I think, will bill these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Benjamin Godyla and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Culture and Communications. Following the request by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting, please prepare this report. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. The Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on informing and consulting employees. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 177 and the committee's report In print No 177 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 5 August 2020, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law amending the Act on informing and consulting employees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, to the Committee on the Law on the Information and Consultation of Workers in order to examine it at first reading. The committees at their joint meeting on 29 September considered the draft law presented by the applicants at first reading and amended it. I move that the Senate adopt a uniform bill attached to it. Incidentally, I have tabled an amendment that clearly determines that the employer has no obligation to organise elections to the staff council. If you don't mind, three sentences of general information. Workers' councils are the type of employee representation body established by the Act of April 2006 on informing and consulting employees. In practice, this is the implementation of the March 2002 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a general framework for information and consultation. In Poland after 1989 and after the period of systemic transformation, de facto after the creation of free trade unions, these organizations were granted a monopoly for employee representation. Further changes are changes resulting from Poland's membership of the European Union. The changes that we are making today, in an exceptional period of time, the pandemic of Coronavirus, must be assessed from the point of view of their functionality. In the draft, in the Senate legislative initiative we are introducing de facto facilitations that enable the operation of this unique tool which we use to conduct a dialogue between the employer and the employees in the company. We are putting in place solutions that will enable the working councils to function effectively, and in particular to hold elections, during an exceptional period of the pandemic of Coronavirus. I would like to remind you that the rules governing the functioning of the staff councils clearly refer to the rules governing the selection of this representation, the required quorum, the manner in which meetings and assemblies are held. That is why we are introducing regulations here, which are similar to the rules on the various elections, and I will remind you that such a solution is used, for example. Lawyers and Counsellors and the facilitation of an epidemic or epidemic situation. I draw your attention to this, because with regard to the article. 10 very clearly we say that the inspiration for the project that was created... At this point I would like to thank the Institute of Civil Affairs from Łódź, because he came up with a proposal in this regard. It is very clear that this law causes that in an epidemic or epidemic state we have these facilitations in the conduct of the procedures described in the Act. Let me remind you: in an epidemic or in an epidemic that the government is introducing. The amendment I have notified shall be deleted in Article. 2 (2) 2, i.e. it regulates this matter, which I said, so that there is no doubt that we are not introducing here a far-reaching obligation imposed on the employer. I would like to ask you and the senators very warmly to take this initiative. Let me repeat once again: the changes we are proposing here are changes that result from an analysis of practical problems with the application of the current rules. And I am talking about this, because unfortunately Poland cannot boast about many other countries of Western Europe, I would say, excessive use of the institution of labour councils, an institution which has no doubts about it. It deepens, organises, introduces certain legal and formal rigours including dialogue between employers and employees. And for this reason, undoubtedly, it is worth not being a dead instrument in practice, even in this unique state, in an epidemic or epidemic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and at the same time to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u92	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have basically two questions about the election committee itself. In what manner are the members of the electoral commission elected and what criteria must they meet? What procedure is in place for invalid elections? We know there are, among others. that attendance requirement. I don't know how you're gonna fix it, if it's gonna continue. And I'd like to ask you about a public consultation. Because in the impact assessment we have a lot of opinions, you've already talked about the opinion of the Institute of Civil Affairs, but we have more opinions. Were these opinions considered at the committee meeting, and could you tell the senator what those opinions were? Because I see that we have a lot of them, but many of them are negative, and many jump in that the project raises many reservations. So that the senator could present these opinions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u93	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u94	In fact, I'll start from the end. The opinions were different. And in the order in which I have them before me... the Supreme Court has given a positive opinion on the bill, although it has made its comments on this normative content in the context of the current epidemiological threat. The Supreme Court, I would say, is, of course, sceptical in this regard about the implementation of the emergency solutions related to this situation. However, as I am saying, Parliament has already introduced, on several occasions in the case of different solutions, emergency provisions related to the state of epidemics or epidemics. The Supreme Administrative Court has not submitted any comments on the draft submitted. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy has expressed an extensive opinion on the various solutions proposed in the draft law. In conclusion, he concluded that only some of the proposals contained in the proposal could be the basis for legislative work. They also require further clarification. Hence, among others. an amendment which I tabled in consultation with the Legislative Office, which I mentioned concerning the deletion of one of the entries. This is also the result of the consultations conducted. The Minister also pointed out that in his assessment, this project should be a cause for wider consultation. However, as I say, of course we have submitted this proposal to all social partners for an opinion. I'm sure I won't surprise you either. In this respect, the project has been assessed negatively. In part, OPZZ stated that some of the provisions were not fully justified at a specific time. Here I read a passage from this opinion. The emergency situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that I would not surprise you, because in Poland so much has happened. Although I don't think it's, I'd say, a natural dissonance. The fact that trade unions are cautiously taking the initiative of employee councils, probably looking at them a little bit as a competitive formula for employee representation. I believe that the scope of competence, the way of organisation and, I would say, the tasks of these councils should not be seen as competitive at all. As you said, the senator, the Institute of Civil Affairs, has responded positively to this project, which was inspired by it. I think those were the most important opinions. Who could be the representative on the employee council? Well, of course, an employee of the company. The senator asked me a third question. I'm sorry, but it got away from me. If you repeat it, I'll try to answer it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u95	Thank you very much. Will you tell the senator again?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u96	Absolutely, Mrs. Marshal. I was asking about the procedure. What procedure is in force for invalid elections? There was this requirement for attendance. Has this requirement been maintained, or have the amendments changed anything in this regard? What procedure is in force for invalid elections? That was the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u97	Mr. Senator, I don't know if I got it right. Well, the procedure is defined in such a way that it also regulates the situation... This was just a conclusion from the current way in which the staff councils operate. First of all, it regulates the situation where candidates for members of the staff council receive an equal number of seats That's what's happened. The number of places left to fill is less than the number of candidates. It is regulated that candidates act as a member of the staff council in equal periods during their term of office. The procedure makes it clear that the staff council shall act by the date of the first meeting of the newly elected board. It wasn't regulated either. The procedure regulates what to do when the number of candidates is at least twice the number of seats to be filled in elections. The council then includes the person who received the highest number of votes from among the candidates not elected to the board. The procedure also regulates what is happening in the absence of a seat in the Council under the statutory procedure, when the other members of the staff board who have assumed office as a result of the elections co-opt for an unestablished seat on the Council by an absolute majority of the persons from among the workers with passive voting rights. Here we introduce a regulation that the number of members of the board so co-opted must not exceed 50% of the composition of the board. Of course, elections are valid when they are conducted in accordance with the procedure described in the Act. If this procedure has not been respected, the elections are void and the council cannot establish itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Swed would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u99	One more question. Mr. Senator, thank you for your reliable answers to your previous questions. I would also like to ask you about the opinion of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), which assessed the draft law negatively. I quote for the OSR: the selective changes proposed by the designers will not contribute to the removal of the existing shortcomings of the law, but will only increase its dysfunction. Specific comments and concrete proposals were presented on the amendments proposed in the draft law. I would like to ask you about these specific comments which were expressed in this opinion. Have they been worked on at the committee meeting and have these amendments that you have tabled somehow reflected these comments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u100	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u101	That amendment I made was, among other things. the effect of those doubts which have been submitted by the relationship. Although I did not take advantage of all NSZZ's proposals in this respect, I considered that this would not increase the functionality of the law. And I say this as a person for whom the position of the NSZZ.Solidarity always requires special attention. I feel particularly connected with this union organization myself, also because of my personal and professional experience. But I'll say it again. Just where it was possible, we used those comments. To the rest, I do not agree with the opinion that they would increase the functionality of the law, I think it would be the opposite.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u102	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I have three questions. The first question concerns the text. Namely art. 2 (2) 1, which appears already in the version we are considering in print No 177 S, says: "Article shall apply to the council of employees acting on the date of entry into force of this Act. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Law as amended by Art. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The same article says: The staff council shall act until the first meeting of the newly elected staff council. Tell me if you can write your lips down. Article 1 2 Indeed, I would say that it stabilizes these terms and actions of those counsels which are already chosen at the moment. Because I don't think so. It's kind of a tautology when it comes to art. 2 (2) 1. That's the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u104	Answer me one at a time, Mr. Senator. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u105	So I'm supposed to answer now, right? I think we've also read it with a representative of the Legal Office. That this entry is the most correct. If the senator thinks that another record would be more correct, then Also because I tabled the amendment myself Tomorrow, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which will deal with this with other committees, we will be happy to turn our attention to the Senator's comments if the senator has proposals for a better record.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u106	Good. Thank you for being kind of open to suggestions. Question two. I would ask you to quote the main allegations that are included in the opinion of "Solidarity." This, of course, is not about precise quotations. It's more or less about the performance that was accused of this project. And question three. The main purpose of this bill... I'm sorry, this novel is to adapt the procedure for selecting staff councils to the epidemiology condition. We know what world we're living in right now. But it didn't find a reflection in the text. Please note that there is nowhere here an article that says that the amendments introduced by this law apply until the end of the epidemic or epidemic threat and 90 days, as is the case in some covid laws. It's just that these changes are made permanently. If, after the pandemic has ceased, we will be cleaning this law again, we will cut these changes. It's unclear to me. Because if we are actually introducing paraepizodic laws that are to operate in this state, not in another state of the state, nation, society, then it should be clearly stated in the law the duration of the changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u107	You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u108	I'll start answering from the end, from the last question. Art. The 10th proposed amendment is: The election of members of the staff board shall be carried out by the electoral commission convened by the employer. I'm not going to read any more of this regulation, how long, how many working days do we have to close the list of candidates? But I'm going to read the end of this editorial unit:...) taking into account the particularities of the company's operation, following the principle of the slightest difficulty for as many employees as possible in voting while taking precautions to reduce the risk of infection with infectious diseases, where the election of members of the staff council is in an epidemic or epidemic state. Here we have a clear indication that these regulations are incidental, for a period of epidemic and epidemic conditions. As for the opinion of the NSZZ.Solidarity, I am sorry, I do not have the whole opinion, but I can quote the conclusion:.NSZZ.Solidarity evaluates the draft law negatively, expressing the view that the current form of the law proposed by the amendment raises many reservations and requires a complete review. The amendment proposed by the designers introduces selective changes to the assessment of the NSZZ.Solidarity, which does not contribute to remedying the existing shortcomings of the law, but only increases its dysfunction. And it's like a cloud of that grade. Of course, if you want, I will ask the secretariat of the committee in a moment and we will be able to read the entire opinion. She is, of course, also on the Senate website, in the section with opinions on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u109	Thank you very much. And once again, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u110	Mr President, there is a problem with your translation, namely that this condition, where the election of members of the staff council takes place in an epidemic or epidemic state It does not apply beautifully to the whole amendment, but only to the rules which the employer transmits at the first meeting of the committee, rather to the draft rules of procedure, not even to the rules of procedure. The end of this sentence concerns a sentence related to the draft rules of procedure. So let me not agree that the entire bill will cease to apply when we shut down or... well, when there is no longer an epidemic or epidemic threat. No, then the procedure for draft regulations will not have to take this into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u111	You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u112	I accept the senator's attention. If the senator has a proposal for a better record in this area, a record that would raise no doubt, then I am open to such suggestions. [[If you don't mind, I just have a proposal not to make a bill like that. Then it'll be easier and faster.]] I do not accept suggestions in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u113	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u114	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have one more question. In the OSR I read that the recommended solution is among others. to abolish the condition that elections be organised at the written request of the group of at least 10% employees. So we're kind of putting up with this threshold. So what is the requirement here when it comes to making choices? How many employees need to sign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u116	We return here to the original regulations, which means there will be no change, because we remove the change of the previous record. This threshold depends, of course, on the size of the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u117	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. There's a representative of the government, Minister Olga Semenuk. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: Dear Marshal, High Izbo, yes, I would like to respond.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u118	If I may, it's on the spot. The amendments to the Act on informing and consulting employees, proposed in Senate printing No 177 S, are of a systemic nature and aim to change the model of appointment of staff councils. Abolition of the requirement to hold elections at the request of a group of at least 10% employees means that the employer will be obliged every 4 years to hold an election to the staff council, regardless of the expectations of the staff of the workplace. This change can be assessed in terms of increasing the regulatory burden for employers and can have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that the law already lays down criminal liability for the employer for not organising elections. Reduction of the attendance requirement from 50% to 10% is a change that is too significant and will reduce the democratic mandate that should be enjoyed by the employees' representatives elected by the crew. The democratic mandate of the Council of Workers will also be reduced as a result of an unknown solution to date consisting in cooping up new members of the Council's seats without the participation of the crew. The mandate of a member of the staff council involves special protection of the employment relationship. The indication by members of the board of staff of a new member of the Board from among the employees of the work establishment, who will automatically receive protection of the employment relationship, may be an abuse ground. The Minister for Labour has informed of his doubts as to the appropriateness of amending the opinion on the project on 23 September 2020. In parallel with the project, the Labour Law Problem Team, working at the Social Dialogue Council, which reached its position on 29 September 2020. This position was adopted by all parties, including the Government, only the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers did not vote for it. On the basis of the team's position, a draft resolution of the board was prepared, which will be submitted to the Senate and the Sejm after the adoption of the RDS plenary. The team does not recommend working on the project due to the lack of comprehensive assessment of the proposed changes in a situation where they are not of an occasional and exceptional nature. The changes of a systemic nature proposed in the project require a comprehensive debate. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u119	Thank you, Minister. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister a question? Senator Czerwiński and Senator Kwiatkowski reporting. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like a brief confirmation. These changes are of a systemic nature, not an episode. Is that so? So that's what I just asked the applicant's representative and the rapporteur. That's one thing. Secondly, there is no need for these changes, because they are actually overturning, according to what is in the opinion, the representativeness of such a chosen advice, and not so honestly, in my opinion, and that is why I will ask for the rejection of this project. They do not significantly simplify the selection procedure. And the third point, actually, is the most important thing. Those who should be most interested, because it's not even us, not even the government, but employers, employees and their representatives on the Social Dialogue Council... Well, as I understand it, their opinion on the subject is negative. or it will be negative, because this can be concluded from the premises, although there is not yet an official, signed opinion of the Social Dialogue Council. The question is, why should we force those who are not happy and simplify their lives? Although I do not see here, in this particular aspect, at least for the time being major problems. But, as I understand it, they didn't make that conclusion, right? [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: If I may, Mr Marshal, I would like to reply.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u121	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u122	I'll answer the question, starting with the last question. It is simply because there is no quorum at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council that this proposal and this position has not been adopted. I can say here that all sides of trade unions have been negative about this, and from employers it has been negative for 5 out of 6 people. In addition, of course... to answer the last question, I would like to say that this is a systemic change that in many cases complicates the appointment more than simplifies it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u123	Thank you. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u124	Firstly, I note the government's opinion that a large part of this opinion was devoted to a passage that... I explained in advance that there is an amendment in this respect to the removal of this editorial unit. But I have two questions. The Minister said that the mandate of a member of the staff council gives special protection, and this could be a field for abuse. In this connection, I would like to ask you whether the same position exists for the government as regards the member's mandate in union representation, which also gives special protection. Is this also a field for abuse? That's the first question. Second question: are there representatives of labour councils in the Social Dialogue Council? I'm asking because you were talking about the union position, not even a position, because it's expressed in the resolution of a council which I understand is not there. The third point is the conclusion. I request that you proceed to the third reading at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u125	Thank you. There you go. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semeniuk: Mr. Marshal, I will ask your Director here for an answer.]] There you go, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u126	As far as protection is concerned, the protection of a member of the staff council shall continue for the duration of his term of office. The point is that the proposal proposed by your senator assumes that some members may be co-opted by members of the council, which means they will not come from elections. So you will be able to co-opt a colleague from the workplace, and thus he will be on the staff board and will have protection, which means he will not come from the election, but will receive protection. That's the problem. As far as the Social Dialogue Council is concerned, as we know, only trade unions and employers' organisations are members of the Social Dialogue Council. These are representative organisations which are required to bring together 300,000 members. So these are the most representative organisations and the most representative board that is set up to give a legal opinion on social, economic and social projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u127	Thank you. [[Director of the Department of Dialogue and Social Partnership in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Waleśkiewicz: Also thank you very much.]] Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that you have made speeches to the minutes in this item by Senators Alexander Szwed and Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, and that you have submitted legislative proposals by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: No, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Senator Kwiatkowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no votes against, so we will have another reading at this Senate meeting. In a moment, we will proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Before that, I would like to inform you that, after the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we will consider an urgent concession law, the first paragraph of point thirty. I repeat, after point 21, we will consider point 31. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 257, and the report in print No 257-S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report is contained in print No 257 S. The Commission proposes to adopt a draft resolution without amendments. During the committee meeting, the text of the draft, which is short and clear, was explained in detail and no amendments were tabled. I'm just gonna let you know what this project is all about again. As we know, the state of the epidemic, the epidemiological, epidemic threat in our regulations is reflected in the fact that we can work remotely. We are talking about senators who can work remotely both in plenary and in committees. It's the rules. But after how many months of such remote work it turned out that various types of disease-related situations, linked to quarantine or at all due to the fact of the epidemic and for example. restrictions on movement have caused the various persons who normally attend Senate meetings or committee meetings and are of a personal, physical nature, to be unable to participate now and to participate remotely. Well, it's just that the rules of procedure didn't provide for that possibility. Therefore, this change is that when it comes to remote work, With the permission of the marshal, of course, as well as the chairman of the committee It is these groups that are allowed to do this remote work. Let me remind you that on the one hand These are those who can participate uninvited, that is, their participation does not require an invitation, because they have the right to participate, i.e. Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, government administrations, Members of the European Parliament and, on the other hand, those who are invited. These are the various persons invited by the chairman of the committee, as well as experts who present their expertise. In accordance with this draft resolution, with its content, in cases where I say necessary, these persons will be able to attend meetings remotely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u129	Thank you kindly, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u130	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, is it true that during the initial introduction of the remote method into our regulations, Senator Czerwiński tried to opt for us to also allow the people we are introducing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u131	Mr. Senator, knowing your truthfulness, I think that's because you're talking about yourself. [[Oh, yeah.]] Yes, sir. I don't remember, I'll be honest, but I can't rule it out either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u132	Are there any other questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Gorgon-Komor has made her speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. And now I'm announcing a recess until 3:30 p.m.... [[Excuse me, what will be considered after the break, which point?]] I'm gonna repeat what happens after the break... [[Licenses?]] What happens after the break... [[Voice from the room: Licenses, Mr. Marshal...]] Point thirty-first, concessions. [[Voice from the room: 12 minutes off?]] Half past 3:30. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 19 to 15 minutes 32]] We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on works concession or service contracts, the Law on public procurement and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 274 and the committee report In print No 274 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mariusz Gromka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to report on the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Act on a Contract for Construction or Services, the Law on Public Procurement and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has examined this law at yesterday's meeting. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Marek Niebżak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, President of the Public Procurement Office, Mr Hubert Nowak, and Mr Jakub Zabielski from the Legislative Office took part. The amendment we are talking about today, ladies and gentlemen, is related to the fact that in a month's time, the new public procurement law, which is presented here as a system act, and in order for it to function properly and properly, needs certain amendments to other laws. We are talking here primarily about the law on the contract of works concessions or services. The bill we are talking about today will be amended as follows. These changes are changes in company secrecy and the protection of company secrecy in the course of the procurement procedure. This is to clarify the moment at which the contractor can reserve the information covered by the company's secrecy. Another change is the amendment concerning the threshold of application of the law and here is an indication of the threshold of 130 thousand PLN. Another amendment concerns communication between the contracting authority and the economic operators in the concession contract procedure. Another noteworthy change is the mandatory and optional grounds for exclusion from the proceedings. We are adapting to the EU directive which imposes such obligations, and in this law is an accurate reflection of what the Directive provides for, there are no conditions beyond those mentioned in the Directive. As far as the law on public procurement is concerned, the most important changes concern regulations relating to the compulsory valorisation of the contractor's remuneration, the issue of additional employment by the members of the National Board of Appeal, clarification and addition of provisions on legal protection measures. Also a significant, significant change is the abolition of the so-called rules. Bagatel orders, it is about orders worth PLN 50.130 thousand. This solution will result in the contracting authority not being required to publish notices of the contracts in the Public Procurement Bulletin. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is a pro-entrepreneur, it introduces solutions that make it easier for entrepreneurs to start public procurement. They will be more accessible because there will be lighter requirements to join them. These are the main issues in this bill. I would also like to say that the proposal received a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government and was adopted by the Committee on European Affairs. The project was also subject to extensive public consultation in order to develop solutions to meet as much as possible the expectations of the public procurement market representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this bill, the Legislative Office also referred to it, but due to the vastly extensive matter at the request of the patron, the opinion of the Legislative Office was not presented in writing. The legislator proposed that any amendments and comments should be made during the plenary session if necessary. As he put it, he was more familiar with this law and does not see any threats or other issues that could not be allowed to enter into force. Of course, the committee has given its consent to this procedure and possible amendments, and the comments are to be given to the President, the Marshal... [[It's already been handed over.]] ...Maria Blanket in today's plenary session. Senator Władysław Komarnicki and Senator Danuta Jazłowicka participated in the discussion. There were raised issues concerning, among others, names or changes in terms of penalties to be imposed. There was also a question about the electronic platform, as well as a question about the threshold of 130 000, about where this amount came from. In response, the committee heard from Minister Marek Niebżak that when it came to naming, there were no comments from the Legal Office of the Sejm or from the Senate's Legislative Office. As regards the electronic platform for public procurement, this platform is to be launched on 1 January 2021. As far as the amount of PLN 130 000 is concerned, after analysis it was considered that this amount was appropriate. This operates at about the same level also in other countries of the European Union. Then Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka asked whether the bill did not require notification. We found out he didn't. At that time it was again stressed that the 14-month vacathio legis of this law caused that there were many external discussions and consultations. As a result, these very solutions have emerged, which today we have the opportunity to familiarize ourselves with in this law. There was also a question regarding the construction of linear objects. We have learned from you, the President of the Public Procurement Office, that new solutions make it unnecessary to conduct competitions for investments in linear facilities. We're talking about road buildings, sewers or railroads. As I said on the opinion of the legislator, no other amendments were tabled during the committee meeting, and the President put the bill to the vote. As a result of the vote, 12 votes in favour, 1 vote against The committee decided that this law should be adopted by the Senate, which, for its part, I warmly recommend. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u134	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Oh, no, I'm sorry. It's remote, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] You're asking Senator Alexander Swed, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have one question. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? European Union countries, Member States The European Union, i.e. Poland as well as the countries that are in the European Economic Area, are required to implement the concession directive. What is it like in other countries of the European Union? Have these provisions been amended? Has this directive already been implemented? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u136	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u137	This particular issue was not discussed at the committee meeting, but we learned from the Minister's speech that there were positive opinions about what solutions we wanted to apply in Poland in the discussions he was conducting. Only within this statement can we move.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u138	Senator Dorota Czudowska asks a question remotely. [[Thank you...]] You're welcome. But we're waiting for the question because the senator said thank you, and she didn't ask the question. [[Because I'm not gonna ask a question. Thank you very much.]] Oh, you're not gonna ask a question. Thank you, too. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marek Nieżak like to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u139	Mr. Marshal, I will adapt to the senate's wishes. If the senators do not see such a need, then... I think that in the committee meeting and now, in the senator's speech, this proposal has been presented to a sufficient degree. But if you ask me, I am at your disposal, I am prepared to present my position.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u140	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed, remotely. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to redirect the question which I have addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur. It is known that all Member States The European Union, as well as the European Economic Area, are obliged to implement the concession directive, and I would like to ask what it is like in other countries. Have other countries in the European Union and the European Economic Area already implemented this Directive in their legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u143	Dear Senator, as we know, yes. Poland has been implementing this directive for some time. This submission is an amendment, it is not that we are adopting a new law in order to implement a directive which is not yet present, is not implemented in the Polish legal order. So that, as we know it, it is. If the senator wanted some very detailed information, I would ask him to address us in writing, because we can gather information on the state of implementation in the individual countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u144	Thank you. Does the senator want an exact answer in writing? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, if that's possible...]] Okay, let's write this down. Are there any other questions? I can't hear you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Senate! We are currently in a huge economic crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. Very many companies fail or face financial problems due to the bans introduced. In view of the economic crisis, it is necessary to maintain the fluidity of the procurement process. The current law is not ideal, but at least it is known to both contractors and contracting authorities. Meanwhile, a month before the planned entry into force of public procurement law, parliamentary work is underway on the first major revision of these provisions. A number of amendments are intended to address the clarification of the rules on the basic mode, which is the mode most frequently used by the contracting authorities. It is difficult to imagine conducting training for employees if practically one month before the entry into force of the Act it is not known how the provisions of the Act will ultimately sound. There are still no ready implementing acts for the new law. Most of the legislation is currently in the process of public consultation. As announced by the Public Procurement Office, the e-procurement platform is not to be launched until the beginning of the first quarter of 2021. In accordance with the Act, it should be launched on 1 January 2021. This platform is intended to enable the receipt of tenders and requests for participation in proceedings. Work is currently underway to create a temporary solution. It is not known whether the system will work, there are no available instructions for this solution. The Polish Districts Association calls for the new public procurement law to enter into force only in mid 2021. This would give time to prepare the missing legal acts, technical solutions and to be familiarized primarily with them by officials who are responsible for the implementation of this law. Violation of public procurement law has its legal and financial consequences. Contracting and contracting staff themselves will be asked whether they are in breach of the law. We know how careful the officials are. This must be eliminated absolutely. The current state of work on the procedated law and the tools to enable the electronicisation of public procurement is far from expected. There is nothing worse for the economy and entrepreneurs than a change at the last minute. I was always nervous about it when I was an entrepreneur. Public procurement law on the one hand must protect public finances, on the other hand it must not hamper economic processes. The Public Procurement Act has been amended several times. I think it would be good to sit down and think... The idea is not to make such changes so often and to keep them functioning in the long term. I talked about this during the ninth term of our Senate, but I even thanked Minister Mark Nieblużak because a lot of things were pushed forward. Finally, despite the various shortcomings of this law, I will vote in favour, Dear Senate, because this law is waiting primarily for entrepreneurs. They deserved it, but sooner... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the government introduces chaos in the preparation, presentation and process of legal solutions requiring at least a few months of preparation for implementation. This time, these are new solutions for public procurement law, a very important legal act requiring a fair preparation and proper implementation, because of the enormous responsibility, not only financial, on the part of both the contracting authority and the contractor. The Minister ensures that the texts of all draft regulations to the Act and their subsequent versions are still generally available in the Public Information Bulletin of the Government Legislative Centre, some of them since September, the more important ones since November this year. As the Minister claims, anyone interested in the procurement market could get acquainted with them. If that is the case, which means that society lacks confidence in the government and even meets expectations, i.e. the publication of draft regulations in a monthly or two-monthly newsletter does not ensure legal certainty, even so that the addressees of the regulations have so many doubts? It is hardly surprising to see how incompetent, inconsistent with the letter of law and the correctness of the procedural way has been established for 5 years. Minister, the source of the law is not a newsletter. High Izbo, to date there is no information when regulations on technical requirements for electronic documents, including requests for admission to the proceedings or competition, information on tenders, competition works or declarations referred to in Article, will be drawn up. Paragraph 125. 1 act. To this day, information is missing when information is provided on the personal means of evidence, the means of evidence concerned and other information, statements or documents transmitted in the proceedings or competition using electronic means of communication, as well as technical requirements relating to means of electronic communication in the procurement procedure. Similarly, it is the case with respect to criteria other than the price of the evaluation of tenders that apply to certain types of contracts and how these criteria are described and assessed. It will be determined by the Minister on the basis of the need to implement European Union law and having regard to the specific nature or purpose of the contract and to facilitate the application of these criteria for the evaluation of tenders. How, then, is a law to enter into force in a few days? Did anyone at the Ministry even think about it for a second? High Izbo, almost one year after the entry into force of the Act, in the fourth quarter of 2021 it is planned to present the method and basis for drawing up the investor's cost, calculating the planned costs of design works and the planned costs of construction works. During the same period, in the fourth quarter of next year a regulation is to be drawn up specifying the detailed scope and form of the design documentation, technical specifications for the execution and acceptance of works and the functional and utility programme. How is this bill supposed to work without these documents? How is it possible to perform without this public procurement? High Izbo, a model for public procurement procedures, new rules for listing in the Public Procurement Bulletin and on the contracting parties are planned for the first quarter 2021. III, the advertising module, together with the Public Procurement Bulletin and the investigation plan, is still ongoing. They are due to end in December this year so that the deadline is met, and so late by at least a few months. According to the Association of Polish Cities, the lack of basic modules of the platform, which may occur on 31 December 2020, prevents the implementation of the law in its basic scope, as described in Chapter 7, concerning the communication of the contracting authority with economic operators. It is also important to amend the technical requirements for electronic documents of the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers concerning the delegation from Article. 70. The Association of Polish Cities points out that, once the platform has been launched, with prior reciprocity of technical requirements, which is currently impossible, piloting is necessary to enable the contracting authorities and contractors to test the basic functions of the system. Registration and setting up an account is just the first preliminary step that has nothing to do with communication between the participants in the process. The Association of Polish Cities, acting in the interest of the contracting authority or the contractor, rightly requests that the Act on new principles of public procurement be delayed. At the same time, the Association stresses that the joint government and local government committee's proposal for a six-month period may not be sufficient if the Ministry plans to issue important implementing acts in the fourth quarter of next year. The request by the democratic opposition to postpone this deadline by at least six months, in line with the recommendations of local governments and entrepreneurs, is fully justified. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u148	Thank you, Senator. For the record, the Minister has undertaken to respond in writing to Senator Alexander Swede's questions. Also for the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Sweed and Janusz Płucherz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Maria Koc. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u149	Sir, if I may... There were two pretty big voices, and I'd like to say something. [[You're welcome. But you might as well... yeah?]] No. To the very conclusion... [[Well, I'm sure you know the conclusion. This is your motion, I think. You're welcome.]] There were two votes, and I'm gonna try... Thank you very much, Senator Komarnicki, for your vote, for reminding me of your position. I am quite serious that this was one of the brighter moments in my legislative career when we were here in the last term of office with a presentation on the subject of the Senator, and I remember very well the senator's statement on this matter. It's just an explanation. In the last term, also with the support of practically all senators, we have adopted a new law on public procurement precisely because this old one has been updated so many times and has already raised many doubts in practice. And that is why in our opinion it should enter into force according to the specified vacathio legis, I will remind you, unprecedentedly long, because it is defined for more than a year. Hence our position. The Senate's current work does not contain any major amendments. These are mostly clean things that remove certain doubts. To a large extent, these changes are the result of dialogue mainly with the contracting authorities. The best example is the substantive change, one of the few, which is a certain bow towards the ordering parties, and you also spoke of it by the Senator rapporteur. Change in the scope of trivial procurement. With regard to Senator Jazłowiecka's statement I would also like to say a few things about this vote. First of all, there have been recent press releases that have necessarily described the state of preparation. I'm familiar with them. They show that representatives of part of the city claim that they are not ready to postpone the entry into force of this law, and that part of it... And it is not that this division, let's say, can be drawn on some political axes, not at all. Representatives of parts of cities and local governments believe that this date should be left to the utmost. This is also shown by the voices of the contractors, by the entrepreneurs. Remember, this is an extremely important group, too. Moreover, the importance of business interests is often stressed in this House. Especially at such a difficult time for them, these are the solutions contained in the new p.r.p. they are very necessary, they support, among others. liquidity, e.g. They fight abusive clauses in orders, they protect sub-contractors, please also remember that small Polish companies in the SME sector. And it seems to me that these entrepreneurs, companies, in other words the market, are waiting for these rules to enter into force as soon as possible. I do not want to go through the entire list of key regulations, most of which, as I see it, have been known to the market since July, September. Indeed, most of these key solutions that have received a positive opinion from the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission... And I would also like to point out that when there was a stage of agreement in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, it was September, October, we did not formally get such a resolution, a position, such a vote that the joint committee or the local government within the committee was behind the delay of the entry into force of the law. And please note that she will not enter into force on the day, she will enter on 1 January, which means we are still talking about the month, but on the scale of this vacathio legis it is indeed a very late stage. Let me say this: I don't want to prolong it anymore, we talked a lot about it in committee, and the government side's position is also known for its media statements. Of course, if there were any questions or comments, I'd be happy to say so, but I think at this stage That's enough. Thank you very much for your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u150	Thank you, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. Thank you, Minister. After the adjournment of the resolution... [[Voice from the hall: No, anniversary.]] ...each year. Good. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 04 to 17 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u151	I'm reopening the session. We begin to consider item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 The Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print No 219 and the committee's report In print No 219 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You'll allow the marshal to make his point. [[Of course.]] Thank you very much. The Legislative Commission discussed the draft resolution on 22 October. I would like to stress that the initiator of this resolution was Senator Halin Poor, for which I thank her very much. I also thank you very much for being the rapporteur for this resolution. It should be noted here that the efforts of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University are behind this resolution, which would like this year 2021 to be the year of the university's patronage. The discussion at the meeting of the Legislative Commission was brief and concerned purely editorial issues. The draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 The Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński was adopted unanimously, with 18 votes in favour. Let me let the senators read the draft of this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of 2021 the Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. The year 2021 marks the 120th anniversary of the birth and the 40th anniversary of the death of one of the greatest Poles of the 20th century, the Primate of the Millennium of Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. Primate of Poland cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński was born on August 3, 1901 in Zuzela, on the border of Podlasie and Mazowsze, and died on May 28, 1981 in Warsaw. His life was a remarkable witness to his service to God and to his homeland, both in times of peace and world wars that came to him. He always remembered his country and his country. Human rights were particularly important to him, regardless of the time during which our country's history came to defend them. Extremely carefully guarded the fate of the Polish Church in the darkest years of Stalinism. For his unbreakable attitude towards the communist authorities, for his opposition to the destruction of Polish social and ecclesiastical life, referred to in the famous opinion of Non possumus! Great Pole, Saint John Paul II said to cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński just after his election: "It would not have been on the Capital of Peter of this Polish Pope... had it not been for your faith slightly resting before the prison and suffering, your heroic hope, your trust without the rest of the Mother of the Church, had it not been for Jasna Góra and this entire period of history of the Church in our Homeland, which is connected with your bishop and Primate ministry. It is impossible to give credit more precisely and define the role played by Primate Stefan Wyszyński in those years for Poland and the Church. Together with John Paul II, they were great teachers of the nation and supported Poles in the most difficult moments of the history of our Homeland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, establishing 2021 as the Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński, pays special homage to him and expresses his memory, respect and great appreciation for his entire life, which was a great testimony of his love for the Homeland and the Commonwealth. He served Poland and the Church with his life. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the text of the resolution. As recommended by the committee, I ask the High House to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Halina Poor to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: Jan Maria Jackowski.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I don't know, but I think I would have asked the applicant's representatives more. Namely, I mean whether during the process of this resolution it was mentioned that there is an expected beatification of cards. Wyszynski, and if so, whether her dates were falling or not. What's the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u155	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u156	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, this was mentioned, and this is also written in the explanatory memorandum, which is where there are proposals for next year's celebrations. It is known that the beatification was to take place at the beginning of June this year, but due to the pandemic it was postponed to next year. But there's no specific date, because I don't think anybody knows when that's gonna happen today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u157	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede. [[Thank you. Mr. Marshal, can you hear me?]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Remember, the new Poland cannot be Polish without God's children! Polish infertility or murdering new life mothers! Polish people of unbelief, without God's love! It cannot be the homeland of people without mutual honor for one another, without the spirit of sacrifice and service, without the ability to share the fruits of work with those who themselves are unable to earn a living and maintain. Thus the primate of the millennium cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński described Poland's vision in the future in Kobyłka on 8 September 1970, Poland based on Christian tradition, Poland based on family. 6 years later, he stressed: "The nation in which the family was distributed is disappearing. There is a biological relationship and a relationship between family and nation. The nation is a protection for the family and vice versa. In difficult times of national existence, when we did not have political freedom, the nation with all its values protected itself in the privacy and discretion of family life. I remember when I was a little boy, I studied in the home of Poland's history on the 24 pictures that my father had taken out of hiding somewhere. We read this book during long winter evenings. How many of those days have fallen into my soul to this day. The nation must recognise the rights of the family and, in particular, the right to its sustainability. And none of this can be done, because he would have harmed himself. In the service of the family must be all the work of the nation His language, history, customs and traditions. Hot love for Poland was an integral element in the teaching of the Primate. He said: "For us after God the greatest love is Poland! After God we must remain faithful above all to our homeland and national Polish culture. We're gonna love all the people in the world, but it's okay to love. So after God, after Jesus Christ and the Blessed Mother, all over the land God's love belongs primarily to our homeland, speech, history and culture, from which we grow on Polish soil. And even if there are various calls to the love of all peoples and nations on the banners, we will not be opposed to it, but we will demand that we live above all the spirit, history, culture and speech of our Polish land, developed for centuries by the life of our forefathers. So he did not agree with the frequent deception of the history of our homeland, which unfortunately took place in the times of communism, but often also happens today. In 1964 he said: "Today we often meet with the phenomenon of spitting on our own nest. People, especially uneducated, are shaking from our historical past, underestimating the great sacrifice, every drop of blood spilled for the nation or every drop of sweat from the farmer's forehead that soaked into the land of his motherland. All this indicates a great need to call for respect for national history, for the efforts of generations that have passed away, for their sacrificial blood poured out in uprisings, in the struggle for freedom of their homeland, on all continents or in the last Warsaw Uprising. Although many ripples were unsuccessful, we owe them the fact that the international conscience reminded us of our nation. Their work, labor, and sacrificial sacrifice resulted in such a result that we are now. The prime minister constantly and steadfastly warned the Catholics against being laicised, against the disappearance of Christian and civic attitudes, neglecting personal, family, domestic, social, professional duties. Cardinal Wyszyński claimed that the condition of social, cultural and economic rebirth is a moral rebirth, which the Church should care for as a educator and creator of these attitudes, all the more so because of the communist The government, in the name of erroneous ideological assumptions in many areas of social life, destroyed positive patterns of conduct. He made it easier for the nation to do so by moving away from Christian values. In his speech in 1978, the Primate said: "If we do not raise the moral level of our lives, if we do not eradicate many of our faults, we can bring to ruin not only the state but also the national life, (...) the demoralization of personal, family and professional life can lead to (...) destruction of our native and national culture. His teachings and warnings, as we can see from recent events in our country, are absolutely true. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of Poland, deserves the title of tireless defender of faith and rights of the Church, spiritual leader of the nation and statesman in post-war Poland. Today, by establishing 2021 the Year of the Millennial Primate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński, the year in which we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of his birth and the 40th anniversary of his death, as a higher chamber we pay tribute to his great person, but also to his timeless teachings. I thank the initiators of this resolution, which, of course, I fully support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I join the thanks to the initiators of this resolution, which Mr. Senator Swed just gave. I would like to draw attention to one important thing, I mean a few, but I will start first with this one. The Sejm also adopted a resolution establishing the year 2021 as Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's Year. Please note that this is what happens there, in this House, where the majority has a United Right camp, and where the majority has an opposition, and the initiators of this resolution are representatives of the Senate majority. So there is a consensus towards this outstanding great Prince of the Church, but also a Pole and an extraordinary man. High Izbo, I think you could talk about the biography of card here for a very long time. Wyszynski, about his extraordinary life. I'd like to pay attention to a little known episode of his life. In August 1944, acting in the Home Army under the nickname "Radwan III' and "Sister Cecilia', he was chaplain of the campino group of the Home Army. He was a military lieutenant. The priest chaplain, lieutenant. That's how he was referred to. And this episode of his life, little known A was an attempt by the Security Office to use this period of his life for operational actions against a card person. Wyszynski is very interesting. In preparation for all these anniversary celebrations, but above all beatification, many films and various commemorative publications are being prepared. I know that the production of a feature film is currently being prepared which shows this campino period, concerning the Warsaw Uprising, in the biography of Cards. Wyszynski. A period that, as I mentioned, is known, but usually in his biography... Even the biography of the editor of Czaczkowska, who recently published a huge, very good and interesting biography of card. Wyszyński, in principle, concerns the post-war period, i.e. the period when he was a Lublin bishop, since 1946, and later the archbishop of Gniezno-Warsaw, Cardinal and Primate, i.e. period, let's call it heroic and the most famous. And the second kind of reflection I'd like to raise. Namely, after death, May 1981. When on the one hand on the 13th of May there was an assassination attempt on St. John Paul II, and on the other hand it was known that Fr. Card. Primate Stefan Wyszyński. It's been a difficult time. There were tensions in the country As we know, it was a time when.Solidarity could legally act, so-called. Carnival time And there were great fears that two prominent Poles, or cardinals, could die. Wyszyński, but also St. John Paul II. And it was a moment of great prayer for believers and such a moment, I would say, special. As a photojournalist, I participated in the funeral of cardinals. Wyszynski. My photos were just published in the numbers of the Tygodnik Solidarno, among others, because I was in a group of photographers. And I have to say, a funeral like he had a card. Wyszyński, I do not remember in the history of Poland. I don't want to... I am talking about the period of the Polish People's Republic, I am not talking about later times. Just a card. Wyszynski was treated indirectly as an interrex, and there was even such a saying. As you know, it was such an institution from the times of the First Republic, that after the death of the king, before the election of the new king, the primate as such the highest or most recognized and valued representative of the Senate simply served as head of state until the election of the new king. And you can say, in one such comparison, that also for many people during the black night of communism, Primate Wyszyński was such a clue as to how to behave, what to do. He was also such an interrex, a moral leader of a nation, a nation that was enslaved. And please note that card. Wyszyński also as, let's say, a statesman behaved in a manner, we would say today, extremely prudent. In 1950 he concluded an agreement with the communist authorities, and the situation of the Church was very difficult and complicated at that time. Only when the state wanted to take over the powers of the Church and have complete control over the appointment of parish priests, bishops and people who performed important functions in the Church Notabene were the operations of the Security Office to present the card. Wyszynski in the international arena, especially in the Vatican, as a person who cannot be trusted because of, among other things,. that was the perverseness of the Security Office to conclude this agreement in 1950. Very interesting work on these issues was written by our colleague, Senator of the 9th term, Professor Jan Żaryn. I'm not here to summarize his historical texts on this subject. In any case, I also encourage you to study the biography of card. Wyszynski, who was one of the most outstanding Poles of the 20th century and undoubtedly in the black night of communism, was for many people a spiritual and moral leader of the Polish people. Once again, thank you very much to the authors of the proposed resolution and, of course, I will support it with all my power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u162	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I'll tell you right away I won't talk about the card. Wyszynski or Norwid or Kazimierz Wielki. In some sense I will talk about all these resolutions, both those whose projects we have today at the meeting and those previously taken in the Seym and in the Senate. And I can't tell the Sejm and Senate now, there's no need for that. All the recipients of these resolutions know that this is about Parliament. First of all, I want to draw attention to the extraordinary, gigantic inflation that we have in this matter. Let me remind you that for the first 10 years, in 1989 and 1999 we adopted, as I remember correctly, 1 resolution. There were 30 proposals, but the resolution was one of Reymont's memorials. Then we had two resolutions. In 2001 there was a 1st resolution, as I recall, devoted to Paderewski. Then the heroes of the resolutions were 2 people and there was a distinction between culture and the rest of the world. And they were Kiepura and Kwiatkowski. Then, in 2003, we had three of them. In 2004 there were 5 patrons of Parliament. And then it started... In 2005, as I recall, at the beginning of the fourth term, in the Seym itself and then in the Senate there were already a quarter of a thousand applications. This is total inflation. Note, too, what we worship and how we worship. We celebrate the first anniversary, the second anniversary, the fifth anniversary, the eighth anniversary, the twenty-fourth, the sixty-four, the seventy-sixth, the hundred-seventh anniversary... Of course, these round ones are also worshiped, but the honor of those I mentioned actually took place. Sixty-fourth was the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, the twenty-fourth was the anniversary of the martial law, the second anniversary was the anniversary of accession to the European Union. Yeah, it's a mess. What was mostly a pretext for adopting these resolutions? Unfortunately, it's not the birthday of the big ones, it's usually death. It is our characteristic that in the Polish parliament death dominates in this context. Which is sad, although sometimes it has its reasons, but sometimes it isn't. Only in one case did we celebrate the birthday and death of one character, and it was Henryk Wieniawski. In other cases, unfortunately, the anniversaries of the end of life prevail. That's also the case with Kazimierz the Great. Recently we had a chance to celebrate his birthday, as I recall, in 2010, when they were 700 years old. But we worship his death again. Well, that's the choices we make. I pay attention to it because it's not a coincidence. Here's another thing. We've overcome one inflationary element. Please note that until 2005 we have established a year of the character in question during its lifetime. The only lucky man in 15 or 16 years was Witold Gombrowicz. I would add, by the way, that not one woman has been honoured until 2005 or 2006. The first was, as I recall, Maria Curie-Skłodowska. We are also making a huge mistake, because, of course, the establishment of a given year of character or events should be preceded by preparation, should also be preceded by the construction of a specific program. And the patrons waited for their resolutions differently Some were, so to speak, adopted on the day when the applicant submitted the project, some only two days later. Notabene, for the record, Chopin waited the longest. Chopin waited six years for his application. Of course, Chopin waited, and I take it in quotes. As far as the most important elements are concerned, there is also a huge mess in terms of form. I'm already skipping those issues that the Senate managed to sort out. It's about using Arabic numbers to change with Roman numbers, calling resolutions... There's been some minimal order. But please note that at the 1st meeting we have up to 7 such points that we consider together. I'll tell you right away, my doubts are also about choice. Because looking at the anniversaries of the year 1520, we can say that we have an equal anniversary. The 500th anniversary of Zygmunt II August. But we can say it's not a character like Kazimierz the Great. We're also 250 years old since Ludwig Beethoven's birthday. I know, we in Poland only prefer ours, and Beethoven is very much connected with the European Union. I also pay attention to our resolutions, our Senate resolutions. We can already make a small anniversary of the 5th anniversary of our own resolution, adopted in 2016. Let me remind you that it was the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. Well, today we celebrate this fifth anniversary in a very specific way with the veto in Brussels. I would like to add to that that when it comes to all these resolutions, it seems to me that as we look at changes in content, the way we approach them... I have such a feeling that here the applicant is more important than the one to whom we dedicate our resolution. I'm paying attention to this inflation that needs to be stopped somewhere. So my appeal for today is that the Senate leans over the procedure and the matter of ahead, to prevent some inflation, to build a period of preemption for individual resolutions, especially since we know exactly who died 500 years ago, 150 years ago, or was born 250 years ago, and this should not surprise us. It can be surprising to see the events that we respond to in the Senate, because there was a drama, some fact happened yesterday or a week ago in Poland or in France, e.g. a terrorist attack, but all commemorative resolutions should be foreseen, prepared in advance, well prepared, followed by a specific programme, specific institutions that will stick to and implement this programme. Otherwise there will really be further inflation, there will be a complete misunderstanding. I'll call back the year 2006 or 2007. At that time 242 conclusions were received by the Sejm itself, and 43 resolutions were born. I wonder if any member from that period remembers one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u164	... Minister Zdrojewski, I think Beethoven was involved with Napoleon. It is the European Union that is associated with Beethoven rather than Beethoven with the European Union, but this... He had love for Napoleon and for the freedom of peoples. And I am going to say very seriously that I wouldn't have spoken if it weren't for the fact that the previous statements didn't express what was difficult and unorthodox, and what makes the primate unique. The uniqueness of the primate was not that he was a spokesman for Christian morality, because every authentic priest is a spokesman for Christian morality and also a lecture on the importance of the family. Its uniqueness in the fate of Poland is that it combines patriotism with realism. The fact that he did not share the fate of Mindszenty, and the Polish Church of the Hungarian Church, we owe it to him to combine patriotism with realism. He signed a very difficult and challenged agreement with the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, was an opponent of the armed underground, and certainly continued the armed action of these people, but he was absolutely opposed to it, that is, a figure completely incompatible with the narrative that the Soldiers of the Cursed were the center of Polish patriotism and then very consistently defended the independence of the Church and the independence of society, e.g. standing on the side of the student protest in 1968. In the 1970's, he entered into conflict with the Vatican, standing in a completely different position. He was opposed to Eastern Vatican politics, against Rome's agreement with communist regimes at the expense of the independence of churches. It was a very sovereign line, which brought Poland one of the advantages that allowed the birth of a great movement of solidarity. If the Primate led the Polish Church on the Mindszenty road, the ruins could not create the basis of the great social movement. It's the truth that doesn't match any party narratives. So it will be a unique Primate: linking patriotism with realism, going against the current, also to Rome, when he did not recognize the interests of the Church in Poland and the national interests of Poland. I'm talking about it because, once before this phase of reviewing history, it was obvious. Well, that's what Mrs Rzeczkowska wrote, that's what Andrzej Micewski wrote, and today it's kind of hidden behind the cliché. The uniqueness of the primate was that he made dramatic decisions and defended a realistic, not an insurgent concept of national interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Mr. Marshal Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Primate Wyszyński is an excellent example of the fate of Polish society. He was in the Home Army, but he didn't stay in the woods. He went out and built Poland, a new Poland, as those who ruled said. But as for this new Poland, many people thought that it would be different from the USSR. Primate Wyszyński is always portrayed as a monumental figure. In fact, he led the Church at a very difficult time. He was associated with a large group of Poles, in fact most Poles, but those days were not so... I mean, they were unambiguous, but at the same time they were very dangerous, so in 1950 Primate Wyszyński and the Episcopate condemned the armed underground and supported collectiveisation. He defended the Church, but realized that during the worst period of Stalinism, the power would proceed to the hearing with the Church in Poland. Somehow, it dampened the attack, but that doesn't mean it didn't go away without consequences. After all, on the example of interning the Primate, you can see how much the Church in Poland was broken up and controlled by the communist authorities. Only 1 bishop from the whole conference did not support the arrest of the Primate of Poland. That was the situation. After the internment that took place in two monasteries, at the end of Komańczyk... When we read about it, when we watch movies, we also ask who was close to the Primate... There was a nun, there was a priest. We can ask what role they played there. It's a tragedy! It's better not to ask. That's the whole tragedy. This shows what pressure the Church was under, but also the entire Polish society. Primate Wyszyński also supported Gomulka. It was the first vote after October. The Primate called for a vote without deletion, i.e. a vote on a single PZPR party list. It also shows what hope he had. And that was the hope of the entire Polish society. We remember. We didn't remember, but we watched So Gomulka in Warsaw, hundreds of thousands of people. The Primate of Poland also gave a sermon in Częstochowa in August 1980, during the strike, and called for work, said that it was necessary to work. I know why he did it. Because he had previously received information about the state of war readiness of Soviet troops in Poland. And, of course, as a man of this generation, he had in mind that we had an uprising in Warsaw, which ended in a terrible defeat. His position was to resist, but not to cross a certain line. This speech, this sermon in Częstochowa, played no role in terms of strikers. I was asked by colleagues from Warsaw, what about this sermon... I said nothing because no one was interested in this sermon. So it was such an independent road, very independent. In fact, it entered into conflict with the Vatican in 1950 with regard to the change of eastern politics, because our interests, the interests of the Church in Poland disappeared in the context of the interests of the entire universal Church. It is worth remembering and realizing that the history of the Church in Poland, which is also in a large part the history of Primate Wyszyński, went in parallel with the history of the Polish nation, with the history of the Polish society, which also had periods of doubt, retreating, but at the same time all the time resisted, and this resistance always after the period of doubt dominated the scales. I had the opportunity to meet Primate Wyszyński in 1972, when, together with the delegation, we went with a group of colleagues from KUL to block the rise of the Socialist Association of Polish Students at the CUL during the so-called. Unifying youth organisations and giving them the Marxist-Lenin character. We have convinced the Primate that it may be possible elsewhere, but the functioning of the Marxist-Lenin organization should not take place at KUL. And a few days after the meeting with our delegation, the episcopate took a position, negative on this matter, and it was a position different from that of the rector, Fr. Professor Kremlin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Bober.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u168	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to share some information with you. I live 8 km from Rywald. Ryvald is a village located between Grudziądz and Brodnica. This is the first place to intern Fr. Primate Wyszynski. That's where he spent six months. This is where Jasna Góra vows were made. I'd like to tell you that this place was shaped by a Primate priest. He was in a detention cell where he had no contact with the environment, and he did not know where he was. Only thanks to certain innuendoes and cunning of the inhabitants to the society, did the information reach Warsaw that there, there is an interned priest of the Primate. After a while, this information also reached the media. The second event took place on 2 September 1972. I personally participated in it. The Primate came to Rywałd and thanked the Rywałdzki Lady, Our Lady of Gypsy for his providence, for the fact that at the place where he was staying, he was able to make some thoughts, which became a starter for his later activities. I participated in this event and I know what was the spontaneous party there, what was the ovation in honor of the Primate. Of course, I was a young man at the time, and I did not realize the importance of the historical events that took place there. Nevertheless, by talking to my parents later, talking to different people, I became convinced of the event I witnessed. I want to tell you clearly that it was indeed an outstanding personality that affected the life of Poland, our life as a society. It was a person who merged, who connected different generations of Poles and actually set us in the direction in which we were going. It wasn't a coincidence that the Primate priest was so beaten up in Ryvald. Then it was Komańcza, the second stage of internment was a person, a personality who opposed that system. His values survived in society, his values survived in us, in all those who shared these values. E.g. Thanks to this, we have St. John Paul II, a Pole who became Pope. It wouldn't be all this if there wasn't a Primate. I want to assure you that near the senators of the Polish People's Party The Polish Coalition will support the draft resolution, which pays tribute and honor to the outstanding Pole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak anymore, but since there were various words here about reducing the authority of our actions... I think it was inappropriate. This is a very important moment, demanding seriousness. We are proceeding today with a resolution, which is a very expected resolution. True, we all wanted to have a blessed Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszyński, but we see what happened, and the announcements... Personally, I'm very interested in this case. I've already talked to the cardinals about it. I'm a weasel. We as agricultural solidarity are very grateful to the Primate. We would like to be very much involved in all this. Cards. At the same time, we agreed on some actions in which the relationship between RI This resolution is for us something that pleases the heart, because it can be expressed in the year of the Primate, on which will be the 40th anniversary of death. Before the primate left, he had the courage to defend our demands to register the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Unions RI. He immediately after the Bydgoszcz strikes wrote to Secretary Kani a letter in which he had just demanded registration of the Solidarity. He often referred to farmers. Many of his speeches are about farmers and patriotism. When the Primate tried to accuse him, he said this: remember that the Primate did not betray, if they say yes, remember that the Primate did not betray. And those were his words. I don't think there's anything else to get, to look for, God forbid, anything else. With the sanctity he had and the one he was raised to be... I hope that next year, maybe in May, maybe in June, it will be elevated to the altars, which we would all very much like. I would like to say that the solidarity of farmers owes him a great deal. I have said this many times and I repeat that we even think that he should be our patron, like Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko is a patron for.Solidarity, so the Primate Wyszyński for us, for the Solidarity of Individual Farmers should be a patron. So that thank you very much, I warmly support the resolution, I am glad that such a resolution is and that today we will be able to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko and Rafał Ambrozik made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 the Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 77 votes against, 3 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 230]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on setting the year 2021 as the Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing 2021 as the Year of Cyprian Norwid. Welcome to the sitting of Prof. Dr. Hab. Tomasz Korpysz, director of the Department of History of Polish Language at the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 203, and the committee's report In print No 203 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a great honor for me to present a draft resolution on behalf of both the applicants and the committee. For starters, I have three good news. First of all, next year we'll be celebrating our birthday anniversary, second round, because it's 200th. And thirdly, today, courtesy of the Professor, we can see the publication on this 200th anniversary next year. So I hope this is good news in the context of next year's, I hope, celebrations. Let me read the text of the resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of I hope that today is the year 2021 of Cyprian Norwid. According to many specialists Cyprian Norwid is one of the most outstanding Polish creators. Nobel Prize winner Josif Brodski considered him the best poet of the 19th century in world literature, and St. John Paul II wrote about him in 2001: "Cyprian Norwid left a work from which he emanates light that allows us to go deeper into the truth of our being a man, a Christian, a European and a Pole. Excellent poet, proselytist, playwright, artist, deep thinker and Christian, hot though undisciplined by the criticism of the patriot who lived most of his life in exile, was born on 24 September 1821 in the deaf in Mazovia, and died on 23 May 1883 in Paris. In his last preserved letter, written two months before his death, he wrote about himself: C. N. deserved two things from the Polish Society: that is, that the society should not be foreign and hostile to it. This specific will remains to be fulfilled. The establishment of 2021, in which there is a unique 200th anniversary of the birthday of the poet, will make it possible to commemorate Cyprian Norwid and bring his person and work closer to Poles. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the great creator and patriot, recognizing his thought that the Homeland is a great collective duty, as it is still present. I also wanted to add that one amendment was introduced at the committee meeting, and I have now read the single text. At the same time, I would also like to say that the Museum Norwid Foundation and Prof. Tomasz Korpysz, present at today's meeting, were the initiators of the fact that the next year would be established as the Year of Cyprian Norwid. I ask the High Senate to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Halina Poor to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We are voting on a draft resolution establishing 2021 the Year of Cyprian Norwid. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Dowhan is reporting a voting problem. Is there any way to find out if he voted? I think I'm okay now. Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 79 votes, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 231]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing 2021 as the Year of Cyprian Norwid. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 Year of Health Workers. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Beata Małecka-Libera and is included in print No 184 and the report in print No 184 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution is due to the need for a moment. There is no doubt that this year is an exceptional year for health professionals They face an incredible challenge, a disaster, a threat to the life and health of the whole society, and are sacrificial from the very beginning on the front line. That's why I reported this project. During the work of the Legislative Commission... I was also the author of some of the amendments proposed after the discussion that took place during the committee's work. I can say that the draft resolution presented to the High House was really very carefully considered both in substance and stylistic terms. Many comments made by the senators have been accepted by me It is important that we unanimously adopt this draft resolution today. The Commission held its meeting on 22 October, considered all the amendments tabled and adopted the proposal. As a justification, I would like to add a few words. Well, we always talk about health care as a system. We are talking about the fact that it lacks money, that this system is not adequately funded, that there is no strategy, that the emerging laws that are supposed to improve this system are sometimes contradictory, that there are many procedures missing. But, Dear Izbo, the health system is primarily people, it's a crowd of health workers who are fighting for our lives and our health every day. These are rescuers, doctors, nurses, diagnes, rehabilitators and other representatives of the medical professions who work side by side together to form a team and help the sick. This is a crowd of people, which is also extremely innovative, works scientifically, develops our medicine. All of us in this Chamber must admit that we can boast in many areas the great successes, achievements, innovative ideas and solutions that we owe to health workers. Well, this year is a special year. As I said, the disaster has affected us, we have been affected by a global epidemic that threatens our lives and which is developing in a way that is actually unpredictable to the very end. This is why this year too. In addition to the fact that the procedure is not working properly, that we are showing shortcomings in the equipment, that there is chaos, that we do not know how to really overcome this unknown disease, this virus Always the most important is man and the most important is the person who, regardless of the situation, fights for the health of another person. Therefore, health workers in this situation are really on the front line and this is a huge challenge for them. They themselves, often unprotected with personal protective equipment, have engaged in this struggle and effectively, as far as possible, help the sick, take care of them, support them. The situation is very difficult because there is still no known drug, it is not fully recognized by the cause of origin, the virus itself raises many doubts. So the situation is still very dynamic. However, the most important thing all the time is that health professionals are very effective in standing together and helping each other and patients. The adoption of this resolution is so important because I feel that it is important for health workers to have great respect and great thanks. However, I think it is not enough, because, in addition to the respect expressed in this resolution, they should simply be helped. And that is why I hope that this draft resolution will be such a specific response next year, calling for us to thoroughly revise health care and, after the fight, we will take on very important health care solutions after the victory over the koravirus, and the most important thing is to rebuild the respect and trust that we should have for medical personnel. Unfortunately, we haven't given them much in this year. These pay fairs for health care workers, these discussions about punishing for medical errors made, all this does not improve the situation and relations between society, us and medical staff. I would even argue that this trust, unfortunately, has been seriously shaken by both medical workers and society. Therefore, let this project become a real message so that, through the events that will be organized next year, we talk about the real problems of employees and do everything we can to restore this trust and respect. And this is what this resolution is meant to do, along with due respect and thanks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u175	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. I remind you that the applicant was Senator Beat Małecka-Libera. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I also inform you that Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, as well as Senator Krzysztof Brejza, have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 Year of Health Workers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted, 93 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained either. [[Voting No 232]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 Year of Health Workers. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing 2021 as the Year of the Silesian Uprising. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 201 and the report is published in print No 201 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please adopt a resolution establishing 2021 the Year of the Silesian Uprising. At its meeting on 22 October, the Commission examined this proposal at first reading and made minor amendments. The State has a single text ahead of it. Let me just read the introduction and the ending. The Silesian Uprising (1919 and 1921) is the three outbursts of the Polish Upper Silesia population in which several thousand people gave their lives. To this day, it is not known how many insurgents actually fought. The number of tens of thousands is given. We don't know all the names. Today, the participants of the fights can no longer talk about them, because the last of the veterans has left for the eternal watch. That is why it is our duty to remember. Regardless of history's assessment of disputes, we owe respect and honor to the insurgents, as well as to the other heroes of our history. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the Silesian Insurgents for their patriotism and love of Polishness and fortitude and fortitude in the fights in 1919 and 1920 and 1921, which contributed to the embrace of the Upper Silesia, after six centuries under Czech and German jurisdiction, by the reborn Polish State. Let me just say, since until recently I was the director of the Silesian Uprising Museum, ask everyone to remember that Silesia had never been under partitions, because for more than six centuries it had no political connection with the Polish state. I am talking about this because it is still atoneing somewhere just such a belief that Silesia returned to Poland after 123 years under partitions. Silesia was never under lockdown. I ask the High Senate to adopt this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Halina Poor to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of the senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution establishing 2021 Year of the Silesian Uprising. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 91 votes in favour, no one voted against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 233]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing 2021 as the Year of the Silesian Uprising. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 as the Year of Polish Constitutional Tradition. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. Print No 202 and report No 202 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission shall submit a draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 as the Year of Polish Constitutional Tradition. Polish legal tradition, constitutional tradition is part of historical heritage. It emerges from a republican tradition treating the state as a common good, and the law As an instrument for the protection of freedom and the limitation of the arbitraryness of power. Next year we will have 2 anniversaries, which provide an excellent opportunity to remind about the value of the Polish constitutional tradition. We're talking about the 230th anniversary of the adoption. The Constitution of May 3 and the 100th anniversary of the March Constitution. The content of the resolution is known to all of you. I would just like to stress that the Constitution on 3 May was an innovative act, the first on the old continent a constitution written, correcting the weaknesses of the Republic of Poland, abolishing the liberum veto, introducing the political laws of cities, is also an opportunity to recall the rights of local self-government and taking under its care a peasant's layer. Moreover, as is rarely remembered, and as emphasized by Adam Mickiewicz in lectures at Collège de France, she established the right of asylum for persecuted persons, she announced the care of the Republic of Poland over persecuted persons. The March Constitution was an act confirming that the independent Polish state was born as a fully democratic state. She referred to the standards of parliamentary democracy. Its adoption was preceded by the introduction of universal electoral law and the granting of voting rights to women. Many European countries have not yet extended their electoral rights to ladies, and reborn Poland has done so. It's worth remembering. We all know that the Constitution of May 3 was a kind of will during the period of partitions, a reference point for the independence forces. This was also her role during the struggle with the communist dictatorship. The third-May demonstrations of academic youth in the 1940s, then the demonstrations organized by the independence opposition not only in Gdańsk, where the Young Poland Movement did it, but in many other cities of Poland, all this constituted the vitality of the historical heritage of the Constitution on 3 May as an inspiration for independence actions and reconstruction of the Polish state as an independent state. I ask the High House to adopt this resolution without amendments, if possible. The issue is about what is common and what we can also boast of in the European global public opinion in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also represented Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I'm opening a discussion. [[Excuse me, I have a question.]] I'm informing you that no one... I'm so sorry. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[It's too late.]] [[It's too late.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please don't shout at Senator Jackowski from either side of the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I want to inform the High House and all of us watching that I signed up with the Senator Secretary five minutes ago, and I have announced that I intend to speak at this point. [[And that's what you're doing, Senator.]] Yes. So it wasn't too late, as you say Senator Mammoths. That's one thing. Secondly, I also signed up to speak at the point about Kazimierz the Great. I hereby remind you that there should be no doubt. [[Surely we, and Kazimierz the Great, are content for this reason.]] I hope so. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Ujazdowski for reminding us of these two important dates, which we do in the form of establishing 2021 Year of Polish Constitutional Tradition. I believe that it was not by chance that the senator placed two constitutions... These constitutions were of course much more in the history of Poland, if we also add the constitution of the Polish People's Republic. In any case, these two played an important role in the first Republic... But it was a demonstration that the Republic was trying to lift itself from the fall that was hanging over it. It was a pioneering work, the first written constitution on the European continent and as such passed to the history of law not only in Poland but also in the international dimension. And the March Constitution was the result of Poland's regaining independence, the establishment of the Legislative Sejm in the elections in 1919. She was indeed an extremely democratic constitution. It is right for the applicants to say that this constitution did not last long and was violated in 1926. This is the historical truth. So, these 2 constitutions, for one, will be 230 years from the date of its adoption next year, and for the other 100 years, they are the kangaroos of this resolution. On the occasion of this resolution, I would like to say one thing. Well, High Izbo, the Constitution was founded on 3 May. because Polish legal achievements in the 18th century were extremely interesting. I would like to remind here the figure of Chancellor Andrzej Zamoyski, who wrote a hearing on Polish law. You can say that this thought of Andrew Zamoyski inspires, although he was not a co-creator of the Constitution on 3 May, the creators of this constitution. As is known or unknown, Andrzej Zamoyski was in Bieżun. Zamość, who owned huge land goods... In the Zamoyski family there was a division into Kutnowskie goods and Krójunian goods. Andrzej Zamoyski owned these goods. This is a town that is in the vicinity of Żuromin, as it happens, in my constituency. It is a historic city, a city which has a very interesting history. Why am I talking about this? Well, maybe. And I am addressing the High House here with the support of the actions that I take as Senator of the land there... The idea is to restore the palace of Zamoyski, which was still built by the Kretkowskis in the 17th century, such a bastion palace just in Bieżun, which is in a tragic state at the moment, and which could be a subsidiary of e.g. museum of Polish constitutions or similar institutions. It is extremely representative, very valuable architecturally, but unfortunately, as with monuments, at the beginning it was sold to a private owner. This owner has not taken corrective action. The greatest ruin of this palace has occurred in the last few decades. At the moment there is a green light, because the palace was redeemed from the owner and is being prepared to repair this monument. I think that such characters as Chancellor Andrzej Zamoyski and the Zamoyski family, who have great merits in the work... well, in our history, especially in the period of the First Republic... it would be worth bringing... Not only as a monument, but also as a center of some thought, some museum of constitution, some foundation, this kind of institution that would promote the constitutional achievements of Polish lawyers... Thank you very much. Of course, I fully support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Krzysztof Brejza and Aleksander Swed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 Year of Polish Constitutional Tradition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted in favour, 92 in favour, no one voted against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 234]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 Year of Polish Constitutional Tradition. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 650th anniversary of the death of King Casimir the Great. I would remind you that the project was introduced by Senator Alexander Potij and is included in print No 258 and the report is published in print No 258 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Alexander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Those of you senators who know me a little longer know that I rarely speak on occasion. However, two reasons led me to propose a resolution commemorating King Casimir the Great. The first reason is general. I'm not a historian by education, but history has fascinated me since I was a kid. Great leaders, Alexander Macedonski, Pyrrus, Hannibal, Julius Caesar, Genghis-chan, Napoleon... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I ask you to finish this conversation? Thank you very much. For many years, as often as many amateurs of history, laymen, I have seen certain processes leading through the prism of great battles, wars, violent dates, breakthrough events, such as revolutions or even natural disasters, e.g. An explosion of a volcano in Santorini, which most likely wiped out the Minoan system of forces in the east of the Mediterranean. Until it fell into my hands, as an adult, Paul Herrmann's book, the Seventh, passed by, the eighth passing in which the history of empire development was shown by the prism of economy, trade, courage of merchants going into the unknown, where they perished or wiped out new trade routes. Carthage, Arabia, Venice, Spain, Great Britain, and especially, probably to the surprise of some, Rome It is an example of countries that have become world-class, based on trade and the economy, of course, on armed trade, but which is a guiding theme. A lot later, Peter Heather's book "The Fall of the Roman Empire" made it clear to me that of course the Roman disaster at Adrianopol, the armed occupation of Rome by the Visigoths, later its capture and destruction by the Wandals, but the common cause of these disasters was the economic collapse, the fall in taxes received by the treasure and consequently the collapse of the border garrisons. This perspective makes us reflect on the wisdom of our ancestors, who, having to choose such strong men in our military history as Mieszko I, Bolesław Chrobry, Jagiełło, Batory or Sobieski, called Kazimierz a great one. And it should be mentioned here that in the general opinion this nickname belonged also to the second king, also to Kazimierz, but not to the Piast family, but to the Jagiellonian family, who provided prosperity and power of the sixteenth century Republic. The second reason why I decided to take this initiative is more personal. As a student, I travelled Poland on horseback. I drove Mazury, Bieszczady, Mazowsze. In the early 1990's, I rode the Eagle's Nest. I saw the ruins of Olsztyn Castle, the Garden Castle, in turn all the castles that were junkyards: a couple of rocks covered with shawls. From this vagrant, the most stuck in my memory was the ruin of a small castle on a small hill, barely a bra, in a pitiful state, densely covered with trees, almost invisible. I drove away with this sad reflection that this testimony of the medieval force of Poland no one even watches anymore, and everything will soon be destroyed to the rest. And here many years later, after choosing to the Senate, I told the senator from Częstochowa district about my trip, where these ruins were located. Then he said with a flash in his eye, "Come to me in the circle." Unfortunately, it did not happen until a few years later when he stopped serving as a ticket. And let me tell you that when I saw the same hill 20 years ago, but not with the remains of the walls, but with the whole castle rebuilt, I was speechless. The one who, practically from nothing, from ruins, without government support, without European subsidies, raised Bobolice Castle, and now rebuilds the twin castle Mirów, is Senator VI and 8th term Jarosław Lasecki. And it's not only that he did it without any help, but very often against the resistance of not very smart officials coming... Well, it's beyond divisions, you can't blame any of the groups here, because stupidity is beyond divisions. Despite these problems, he has reached his own and today hundreds of thousands I don't overdo these numbers. Poles can see and admire unique defence structures that are appropriate only for this period. With respect and gratitude to all those who cherish the memory of Kazimierz Wielki, I would like to thank Senator Jarosław Lasecki for this hard work for our cultural, national heritage and for the revitalization of unique Kazimierz castles. High Izbo, in the resolution we speak I'll read it in a minute. The idea of creating a powerful organism in the middle of Europe, which was to be accomplished by trying to enter into a personal union first with Hungary, and came true in a personal union with Lithuania. And it was a creature that could resist the neighbors. But he reminded me of a character. And you're right. Senator Kazimierz Klein, about Kaźk Słupski. After all, Kazko Słupski was supposed to be the successor of Kazimierz the Great. It didn't work out, and we know what it was like because we lost Pomerania for many, many years. High Izbo, by adopting our special resolutions, we not only worship great Poles. We want their achievements to be a message to modern generations. So let us remember the efforts of King Casimir, who cared for the prosperity and economic strength of his kingdom with such care, for example. The trade route along the Vistula, from the south of Europe to the northeast to Novgorod, will be a guide and a model for us to take care of our country. If you don't mind. This will take a very short time, I will read this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 650th anniversary of the death of King Kazimierz the Great. On 5 November 1370 he died on Wawel Kazimierz the Great. Several years after the death of the last Polish king from the Piast dynasty, the Silesian chronicler, who then looked at the Polish state from the outside, wrote about King Kazimierz: "This Kazimierz, the king of Poland, was a man in his providence, loved peace and led Poland to a good condition, willingly built churches and for the sake of peace rebuilt the castles remaining within the realm and was a man possessing great wealth. The last crowned Piast took over the throne in April 1333, after the death of his father Władysław Lokietyk. He began reigning in a weakened country, with claims of Czech kings to the Polish crown and almost on the brink of decay after the defeat of the war with the Teutonic Order. The Kingdom lacked internal cohesion after more than 200 years of political breakdown. Though war was no stranger to its rulership, internal action gave him the nickname of the Great. The King has begun great reforms. The most important part was to build an efficient territorial board based on the Old Town offices. The ruler built the wealth of his vault with silver, lead, and salt mines. Mining became the subject of the king's separate legal regulations, so that the vault would have maximum profits. At the initiative of the monarch, a large campaign of colonization of royal goods was carried out, and cities such as Bydgoszcz were also located. or Radom, and the famous Kazimierz castles were built, such as Bobolice Castle, Niepołomice Castle, which were not only intended to defend borders, but became a skeleton of the territorial management of the Kingdom of Poland and the facilities necessary to maintain public order. The greatest achievement was probably the announcement of the famous Kazimierz Statute, which became the first attempt to regulate the most important legal problems of the uniting state. The statutes were not a codification of Polish customary law, but became the foundation of all subsequent written shots and subsequent reforms. Kazimierz the Great, giving the throne of Poland to Louis, King of Hungary before his death, created a personal union of the Kingdom of Poland with the powerful Kingdom of Hungary at that time, secured the country from an attack from the outside. It was the first attempt to build a strong, able to present effective resistance to its enemies of the organism, which Poland soon became through the Union with Lithuania. Undoubtedly, the reign of Casimir the Great became the foundation of the power of the Kingdom of Poland in the following centuries. We remember the remarkable words of John Długosz, who wrote nearly 100 years after the death of the king that Kazimierz the Great found Poland wooden and left it brick. King Kazimierz is in Poland's history an example of the fact that in the consciousness of posterity one can become great not necessarily because of war merit, but because of taking care of the economy and law. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask the senators to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and the senator of the applicant. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about these statements... And let me remind you that the Committee on Culture and Media of the 8th term held an away meeting at the castle in Bobolicy and was able to visit the revitalization of this historic castle. And in connection with the reminder of the merits of Senator Lasecki, Senator VI and VIII of the term of office, I have a question: do you not think that any reference should be made to the text of this resolution to those people who are now continuing this heritage? I would very much ask for an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u186	Dear Senator, it so happened that during the 8th term of office I somehow missed this happiness to go to Bobolic, and only a long time later did I get there, and I shared this impression in my speech. Dear Senator, I know that the momentum and generosity of Senator Lasecki is only equal to his modesty, so... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, I'm certainly not gonna... and I'm gonna applaud if the senator makes such an amendment. Thank you very much. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u187	Thank you very much. I don't see... Ah, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please, a question that lasts no more than a minute. [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u188	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur: is this lobbying... [[That's what I wanted to ask you.]] [[No.]] ...Lasecki... [[No.]] ...ex-Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u189	I know, Mr. Marshal... [[No. Good.]] ...that you don't like Senator Lasecki very much, but I think it's unnecessary for the senator to start this discussion. That's one thing. Secondly, this is not lobbying, but I think it is important to mention a senator who has such merit and whose work for Polish culture nobody noticed. And that's why I mentioned him because he's the only man I know who's ever done something like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, no further questions. I'm opening a discussion on this. Please take the floor in the discussion of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As an educated historian, I cannot fail to applaud reminding our collective awareness and building historical awareness based on the most positive examples. I think that the character, life and work of King Kazimierz, called the Great, long ago recognized as a prominent ruler and husband of the state of his era, deserves to be remembered, especially since we have such a perhaps not superround but nevertheless a round anniversary, the anniversary of the 650th anniversary of his death, which took place on November 5, 1370. High Izbo, it was a ruler who, as it were, closes the palette of outstanding Piasts on the throne of Poland, closes the history of the dynasty on the Polish throne, although the Piasts still ruled some lands of the Republic of Poland, among others. Mazowszem, until 1526, were also in Silesia until the 17th century. But unfortunately they were no longer on the throne of Poland. So this 400-year period starting historically, you can say, from the Prince of the House, which is considered to be the creator of the Polish state, although of course this creation of the state began earlier... Nevertheless, it has gone into history as the one who made the baptism, the one who built the Polish state. And Kazimierz the Great, his descendant in a straight line, which closes the history of this dynasty. There is a saying which is in our national catalogue of various references that Kazimierz Wielkie found Poland wooden and left it brick. Of course, it is said overly, because not all objects were bricked, but its investments, especially in security, in construction, if they speak today's language of infrastructure, were very interesting. I, Senator, did not accidentally ask about the Bobolic Castle because I agree with your assessment here. Anything to say is indeed an example of a private patronage in the area of culture, particularly difficult because it concerns the protection of monuments. It's easier to be a patron in current artistic projects than in a job like that. I was very impressed by this away meeting of the Culture Committee in the 8th term of office, and what we saw there too. I'm not gonna tell you all this anymore. Anyway, the castle after 300 years of being in ruins has been restored to its state of greatness. I believe that in this respect it will not be private or lobbying, as Marshal Borusewicz said, a memory of this service of Senator VI and VIII of the term of office which he has done. And, as we can hear, now in the process of revitalization is lying, perhaps, about 1.5 km from Bobolic castle in Mirów, which is now a ruin. This is a tedious, expensive, complicated operation. Who knows about conservation, knows that all of this is done under proper conservation procedures, under supervision. All legal instrumentation must be used for such activities. So it's a huge effort. It's not just a renovation or a revitalization of some building. Therefore, I allow myself to submit on behalf of Senator Libicki and my own amendment to the draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u192	I understand that this is an amendment which, in a resolution commemorating the sixty-fiftyth anniversary of the death of the great king, mentions the current senator. Okay. [[It doesn't make any sense.]] This amendment has been tabled. Mr. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u193	I'm very short. I would ask my fellow senators, the applicants, to consider not submitting this amendment. If we adopt a resolution honoring the senator, we will mention his accomplishments, including the reconstruction of this or that castle. Senator Pociej mentioned the senator's modesty, and I don't know if we'd do him any harm. Moreover, the resolution concerns the 650th anniversary of the death of King Casimir the Great. It is not a resolution emphasizing the merits of this or that living senator. It would be an event. Let me remind you that we have already adopted a personal resolution on Cyprian Norwid. I cannot make a proposal against it, but at the committee meeting I will recommend voting against not to set a precedent, especially since, as you know, the senators of this term have also revitalized palaces that are now beautifully serving people. They're part of the 10th term. We'd make a cardinal mistake. I don't want to use other words, say we'd be embarrassed. By adopting such an amendment. That is why I urge the senators to reconsider, because this is an unprecedented situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u194	One second, ladies and gentlemen. Now written to the voice is... Thank you very much to the marshal who spoke in the discussion. Another speaker enrolled in... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Unless Mr. Senator ad vocem... Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u195	High Izbo! When I tabled this amendment, I was inclined to say this with a sincere feeling, because I thought that the investment that was made was: from private funds, not from public, at my own expense, not through EU funds or national funds, from these special funds. It deserves attention. But to be honest, Marshal Grodzki convinced me in his statement. The amendment was made by me and Senator Libicki. I withdraw this amendment, thinking that what we said during the debate was the merit of Senator Lasecki in terms of revitalization and patronage over the Bobolice castle. However, I cannot speak for Senator Libicki. I'll try to reach him and then... [[Voice from the room: He consented.]] I've been informed that he's agreed. In that case, we withdraw this amendment. I suggest you don't refer to her.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u196	The amendment is, as I understand it, withdrawn. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz in remote mode, who has probably been waiting for the opportunity to speak for some time. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u197	Miss Marshal, am I audible? [[Yes, Mr. Senator, you're audible. You're also visible at the moment.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listen to this discussion with great attention. I am glad that such a resolution is taken. I remember when I was chairman of the Parliamentary Committee, we celebrated the anniversary of the birth of Kazimierz the Great and went to Kowal, where he was supposedly born. I just want to add one thing to this resolution. Maybe it's because I'm participating in the proceedings remotely. The fact that we are talking about Poland of those years, medieval Poland, as a country of social and religious tolerance, is a huge merit of Kazimierz Wielki. Then came the city of Kazimierz, where I lived for many, many years. It's one of the few... I don't know if there's a place in Europe where you meet on almost one street, in an area, I don't know, 300 m2 of Gothic cathedral and Jewish synagogue. Our Jewish brothers used this tolerance for many years until the unfortunate Holocaust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Anthony the Husband, as I understand it, in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u199	Yes. I wanted to take the floor in the debate with Senator Jackowski because his proposal was kind of an opposite opinion on the inflation of our draft resolutions on celebration, whether it's an anniversary or a character. And as far as Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's words are concerned, they were well founded in my opinion. Here we would go too far and, I think, it would be a celebration of what it quite ironically called Senator Zdrojewski Not only those we mention in the draft resolution, but also applicants. And here it would be an extra honor for someone outside... but also for the senator. So that I'm just... I didn't know how to get out of my vote so that... my voice was probably out of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u200	Thank you very much, Senator, also for your honesty. I state that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed to the vote... No? [[Voices from the room: No...]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: But withdrawn...]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Well, I don't, to be honest... [[We will vote on these two draft resolutions...]] [[Voice from the room: But there is no script...]] Well, there's no script, but I think I can say words in Polish. I've been doing this for a while. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u201	Mr. Marshal... Mr. Marshal, I'll make a formal request. The findings were that we had to vote on these draft resolutions in the voting block at the end of the sitting. So I'm asking for at least five minutes... [[Oh, no, I'm sorry.]] Take five minutes so we can get ready to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u202	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, this is my... I unnecessarily, as I understand it, misled your senators, assuming that perhaps by mistake I do not have here in the voting scenario, and assuming that just all draft resolutions... And so I asked because I didn't know how many draft resolutions were limited to voting. So, if you'd like to come over here... There's nothing to worry about... [[Voice from the room: It will be tomorrow.]] Tomorrow there will be a vote on this item, it will be held in the voting block. Senators, I apologize for the confusion. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's conqueror. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 259, and the report "No 259 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I was honoured to present you with a report on the committee's proceedings on commemorating the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's conqueror. It is, in my opinion, a very important draft resolution, a resolution referring to the beautiful tradition of the Polish people Fighting for independence, fighting for self-determination, fighting for freedom. This struggle took place in very difficult conditions, preceded by uprisings, after which the situation of the Polish people worsened after each of them. Both the November Uprising and the January Uprising ended in disaster, resulted in an increase in repression, restrictions on the rights of the Polish people, introduction of e.g. censorship, possibly abolishing the Polish language as an official language. In turn the revolution of 1905 is multifaceted. One of these aspects is that we managed to... I mean. Even though this uprising also failed, it did not end in such a complete disaster as it had a positive effect. These positive effects were a lot: there was a relaxation of the Tsar's terror, there was a relaxation in the scope Polish institutions, such as the Polish Macierz Szkolna, were called after this revolution and were allowed to teach in Polish, Polish language was also introduced as an official language in municipal and other offices, and many other institutions, cultural and historical... It was simply so strong, so spontaneous and so bottom-up that it brought reflection even with the Tsar's possessor and as a result brought positive changes for the Polish people. He was also the first strike to be an armed act since the January Uprising. Of course, as we have written in the resolution, this act, this revolution of 1905, was preceded by a demonstration, a famous demonstration on 13 November 1904 in Grzybowski Square in Warsaw, when the Cossacks sent to pacify this demonstration did not count at all with resistance, they thought it would be so far, but it did not happen because the Polish Socialist Party Fighting Organization, which covered the demonstration, started a fight with the Cossacks. And as a result, we were just dealing with the first post-January military performance. The 1905 Revolution, of course, brought many victims. These victims are calling for memory today. That is also why we should promote this project in order to honor them. Of course, one of the most famous heroes and one of the most famous victims of this revolution was a young Stefan Okrrzej, who was hanged on the slopes of the Warsaw Citadel in the summer of 1905. We don't know where he was buried, the Tsar's slayer made sure that we couldn't worship him. But we can worship him also today in this resolution, as Senate of the Republic of Poland, to show that such intentions of erase Polish heroes from our history never work. Despite some differences that we can call political differences today... They weren't there then, then really this break was an independence break and also a struggle for social justice. It was the result of a war that failed for Russia in the imperial war against Japan, in which Russia failed and, as a result, the conditions of life deteriorated, and at the same time the pressure of various social layers which could no longer bear it increased. So, of course, this rumble brought with it a certain element of class struggle, or even a very large part of class struggle, but it was also normal at that time. Western society, even the society of our other conquerors, Austrian or Prussian, as well as Western Europe had already lived differently, there was no more oppression as it was in the Russian partition. And that is also why the broad masses of workers have joined this protest, this revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this revolution has also had another positive effect: it has led to the fact that Polish organizations, such as the PPS Fighting Organization or others, have gained new members. The development of Polish independence parties took place. It was believed that the fight made sense, believed that sooner or later Poland would regain independence. All the heroes who then created or was it 1. The Personnel Company, whether the First Brigade of the Pilsudski Legions, or others, had their roots in the 1905 revolution, lived this tradition. It was also referred to by heroes such as Józef Piłsudski and others whom we know from history cards. That's why I'm asking the High Senate to agree to this resolution. And as a result of the formalities, I will read that the committee at its meeting on 24 November 2020 considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and proposed that the Senate adopt a uniform draft resolution annexed to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Wojciech Necessary. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u205	Senator rapporteur, would you please read this resolution? [[Voices from the hall: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] So that we know what the final content is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u206	Mr. Marshal, you have a bit ahead of me, which I wanted to discuss... [[The point is, are those amendments still there...]] I mean, I'm going to put an amendment in the discussion, so I haven't mentioned it yet. [[No, I'm pulling out...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u207	Uh-huh. I see. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u208	Yeah, I have two questions. One thing, Mr. Marshal, is the procedure that was followed at the committee meeting. That is, during the first vote at the committee meeting, the result was 7:7, i.e. 7 people supported the draft resolution, 7 were against and one more senator abstained. And this result was interpreted as an incentive for further discussion, not a lack of support for the draft resolution. I don't think it should be presented, at least with that result. Then there was a second vote. The Senators of Law and Justice did not take part in it as a sign of a protest related to such, and not as a different interpretation by the President of the original outcome. I'd ask the senator to comment on that. And then there's the second line. Well, I would still read two sentences, which are in this resolution, and I would draw attention to them. The first is a sentence that... Well, I'll admit that I don't know if it should be in the text that we're making. Let me remind you that adopting something means supporting. Here, of course, we are talking about the 1905 revolution. I quote: "This event forced systemic changes in Russia, was a spring of the February revolution, and then October 1917. I do not know whether the Senate of the Republic is the best place to mention the revolution of 1917 as something obvious or, perhaps, favorable to Poland, and indeed there are phrases that refer to it so that it is He called, the national aspect, the element of this revolution in 1905. Because if I read that one of its long-term consequences I am not a historian, but my knowledge of history makes it more like a chance to regain independence, realized effectively in 1918, not revolutionary raids in 1905. I would ask you to comment on this content, but above all on the procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u209	But, Senator, I am so sorry. You're not just crossing the time limit for asking questions, it's still, as I understand it... Mr Senator, questions concerning the content of the report do not include the rapporteur's reflection on the events that the senator is presenting. With all due respect, sir. This is not the subject of the current agenda. In other words, Senator: it is not the subject of your deliberations, certainly right, of your interest in the reflections of Senator Necessary. He's supposed to answer questions about the report. And while your question about the circumstances of the vote is an absolutely legitimate question, the question of reflection does not fit into this point It's just that. And don't take it as something hostile from me, just... [[Maybe I can explain, Mr. Marshal, because I wasn't quite clear...]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[These 2 quotations are from a print, which is called "the ', therefore I ask you to respond to these 2 sentences in this report. Simple.]] I'm asking the senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As for the process of adopting the draft resolution at the committee meeting, it was indeed the situation that the senator described. There was a vote in which the score was tied. According to senate legislators, who have spent quite a bit of time to solve this problem, this does not indicate that the draft resolution is rejected. Of course, you can go back to the session and follow it up, because there were a few people speaking there. As a result, Because there is no specific procedure to do in the case of a tie in the vote, and it is not a rejection, and it is not a adoption by Mr Kwiatkowski, the chairman of the committee, has exercised his right to present another amendment that has been voted on. Therefore, the draft resolution received a majority. That's what it looked like. As for the reflections of the senator and my revolution in 1917... Mr. Senator did not quote it well, because in this resolution it was said that this led to this in Russian lands, because this revolution did not exist only in Polish lands. In Polish lands, history has developed in a different way, in Russian lands in a different way. But that's the sentence. Mr. Marshal. Borusewicz already asked me that. After the changes that I intend to make when I speak in the debate and make an amendment, there will be no amendment. As for the fact that the break did not bring us... did not serve the cause of independence of Poland, here we will be different. We're gonna be different. Indeed, the blood shed during this revolution was red. The PPS banners that flowed also had a red color. But that doesn't mean that red blood doesn't deserve any support. And I would like to remind you that as a result of this revolution, a fragment of the PPS has been created, which has only served the cause of the fight against the killer. Thanks to this revolution, a number of people decided to join this fight, decided to support national aspirations. And what has been dormant for years has been awakened by this revolution in 1905. So that in this case we may differ. If the senator doesn't see it, we'll stay in dispute. But, as your marshal said, this is already our interpretations, and it doesn't concern the proceedings of the committee itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u211	Thank you, Senator. Now, in connection with Mr. Czerwinski's question, a little presumptuous, I'm going to ask you a question about this case as well. Is it possible to argue that the revolution of 1905 resulted in the October Revolution, the fall of the Carat? The fall of the carat was an undoubted condition of Poland's independence, because the Tsar never in any case recognized Polish independence, and even in dramatic circumstances at the beginning of World War I the only declaration which Romanov's house agreed to against Poles was to ensure their freedom in faith and in self-government after victory over Germany in World War I. In this connection, was the fall of the Romanov house, which did not assume independence of Poland, and to which this revolution led, in the interest of the Polish people, or was it not? I'm curious to hear your opinion on this. That is the question, Mr Senator, to you, your rapporteur, because I cannot ask you questions to Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u212	Oh, I'm sorry. I realized it was a question for the senator. But luckily, I listened to the question. Of course I do. There is a famous sentence of Józef Piłsudski: White Russia is more dangerous than red Russia. Józef Piłsudski, creator of our independence, thought so. He believed that the fall of the carat was a prerequisite for Poland's regaining independence. This was also about the co-operation of the Carat with other assassins. As long as they were manor houses, they always cooperated with each other and always to the detriment of Poland. Thus, although I am not in favour of the revolution of 1917, I am simply privately, as a senator or chairman of the party which I represent, this revolution of 1905 also contributed to such movements in Russia itself, that they led to the fall of the Carat, which was undoubtedly a favourable circumstance for Poland in the context of regaining independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u213	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Mr. Marshal, thank you. After explaining to the senator, I withdraw my question.]] I'm informing you... [[Can I have another one?]] You're welcome, Senator Gogacz. I take it that's a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u214	Yes, of course. Senator rapporteur, at the committee meeting, you agreed with the proposal to remove from the original text the sentence on the October Revolution. Later, during the vote, when it was tied, it turned out that the text was gone. This was no longer in the new text, but today you announced that you would report an amendment to this effect. I'd like to ask... Because there was also a second question concerning the second paragraph on page 2, which says: "Events on Polish lands, initiated by the working class and the left, were of an independent and social nature, and they were fought against by endemic environments, landowners and capitalists. At the committee meeting, when we offered you to resign. Just like you gave up your opinion of the October Revolution, about continuity. In that sentence, you made your argument, which was that you did not agree to it. I would like to ask if there will also be such an amendment in this catalogue of amendments that you will propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u215	Thank you. Well, we're starting a discussion on the amendments, but, of course, I'll answer to the senator. I will say, referring to the previous resolution, in which Senator Jackowski changed his mind, because he said that the sound of certain words in the Senate is sufficient and they do not have to be recorded in the resolution, that I will also agree to it. This sentence in the project I'm going to present is changed. There's a dot after the words "independence" and "social." And who fought them? Well, they were fought by endemic environments, landowners and capitalists, because a lot of people just were. Unfortunately, you have to say that. "Satisfied with co-operation with the possessor and wanted to preserve this state. They fought this revolution. But because of the conversations, the controversy that took place, and the desire that this resolution should not divide us, but unite us, I decided to change, I think that one that will also take into account the senator's suggestions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u216	Thank you very much. I understand there are no further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening a discussion. [[Can I... because in the discussion I'd like to put together...]] Of course, Mr. Senator, you can speak in the discussion. I understand that the senator is now speaking not as the rapporteur's senator, but as a participant in the discussion, who can also make amendments. [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the text of the resolution, which I originally presented, was based on historical data, what this matter looked like. However, account must also be taken of the fact that history can be interpreted. I presented a certain interpretation of history, in my opinion correct and correct, but after having had a few discussions with the senators, after hearing their position and argument, which led me mainly to the fact that, as I said earlier, the resolution could be combined and not shared, I decided to make an amendment that eliminates some controversial records, and therefore I make it. I think there will be a discussion on this at the committee meeting, and eventually we will be able to discuss it again later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u218	Thank you very much. I accept these amendments. Please take the floor of Marshal Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is very good that as a result of these discussions which took place at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, but also later, which we have led in our own circle, we have come to the conclusion that this resolution No matter what one of us thinks about certain topics There is a need to eliminate issues that could be shared and to focus on two key issues. And it's all about them. Namely, first of all, that we were dealing with a kind of uprising, with a fight against a oppressive possessor, with a carat and that it was a continuation of these raids of the Polish people In this case, it is very strongly linked to the social element, including the fight for decent working conditions. Nevertheless, this anticarnian blade was dominant there and it can be said that people who engaged in this fight knew very well that this fight was about the future of Poland. About the line... Because here was the connection between these events and regaining independence in 1918. Of course, the main cause, the main source, can be said, that this independence was regained, was World War I. She weakened the possessive powers and created the conditions, created the gap that was used. Only that in order to use it, there had to be ground, there had to be foundation, there had to be a relatively high degree of social consciousness. I have before me a fragment of the interview with Prof. Friszke, who is an outstanding historian and analyzes those times and earlier. And he said that the partitions, which lasted for a very long time, caused... that the division into district Poland, into these 3 partitions, caused some weakening of national awareness and a sense of community. Besides, we know that various types of Polish political forces spoke differently about the future. Some have seen the future within the possessive countries, hoping that these countries will democratise. And the fact that in 1918 we took advantage of this opportunity... our ancestors took advantage of it was the result of the fact that, for years, for, let's say, several dozen years, Prof. Friszke says that since the mid-19th century, because various organizations were formed, just organizations of resistance, revolutionary organizations were growing. And in that sense, what happened in 1905, just through the effects... These are very important things that the author, the applicant, Senator Necessary, spoke about. And what happened after the revolution, namely forcing on the carat the permission to use Polish language in communes, then in private schools, to create the Mothers of Poland, to create various associations: cultural, educational, artistic... This all very strongly built this national consciousness, which turned out to be extremely useful in 1918. So I think that's the way to understand this relationship. And last but not least, if I say so, in a way, after eliminating all the debatable or those that would divide us, the elements of history, this is a resolution that really honors the people who then courageously stepped forward and died. There were thousands of people killed, there were even more wounded. I think they are worthy of the Senate's worship tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Wojciech Necessary. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. The Senator Necessary requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I do not hear any objections, therefore the Senate has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 232 and the committee's report In print No 232 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to present a report from the Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Print No 232 S refers to the project contained in print No 232. The High Commissions were sitting on 1 December and after discussion they ask the High House to accept this proposal without amendments. I will briefly present this bill, but before I do, I would like to say that of course it has been subject to public consultation. The opinions were delivered by the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy, the Minister for Development, Labour and Technology, the President of the KRUS, the President of the ZUS, the Trade Union Forum, the Supreme Administrative Court, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, as well as the Office of the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs. What does the project propose? In short, because I presented it yesterday, but of course the formalities must be met. The project includes solutions to complement existing government shields with further important solutions that will serve, firstly, entrepreneurs, secondly, employees of these entrepreneurs, thirdly, widely understood citizens, because such pro-Citizen solutions are also here. And that's where I'm going to start, especially since it's an art. 1. The Act provides for the introduction, per analogy to the already functioning for about 10 years in the Polish system of law, individual interpretation for entrepreneurs, extending the scope of this very good, proven for a decade and praised institution, to citizens, including those who do not conduct business. Why is this of great importance, and why do we define this proposal as a pro-Citizen? Namely, there are a lot of situations, that just as an entrepreneur who has a public duty to perform, so a person who is not an entrepreneur often has a duty to the state and is expected to fulfil it, but he does not know how to do it. And the entrepreneur, unlike this citizen, has the right to ask the appropriate authority whether, if he behaves this way and so, it will be lawful and in accordance with the expectations of the authority. So the entrepreneur presents his point of view in the application for an individual interpretation. If the body shares its point of view, it can carry out its duty in accordance with its view on the matter. If the interpretation has changed or if any State authority considers or interprets these provisions differently, the trader cannot bear the consequences because it has complied with the interpretation given by another State body. This is a very good solution that builds the confidence of citizens, entrepreneurs in the state, stabilises the business situation and helps you create good practices. Well, unfortunately, this benefit cannot be enjoyed by a citizen who is not an entrepreneur. That is why here we want to extend the scope of this institution also to people who, as each of us, every citizen, must perform duties towards the state, but do not always know how, indeed, has a view on this subject, but this has nothing to do with it. If the High House, the Senate, and then the Sejm adopted these solutions, then any citizen could ask and propose how he wants to do his duty. After having received the reply, of course, this interpretation, as in the case of entrepreneurs, would be an interpretation which would bind the body or authorities of the State, but of course it does not bind the citizen. If he doesn't agree to this solution or thinks otherwise, it's his will. The same is true for analogy, as I said, in the situation of entrepreneurs. But it's already on your own responsibility. We want this interpretation, as in the case of business regulations, to be issued within 30 days. And here we are expanding the capacity of state authorities in such a way that if the authority considered that the case was too complicated, it could extend the period for this interpretation. We give the possibility of extending the deadline to 45 days. In my opinion, and in our view, it is It's a very good pro-Citizen proposal. The second proposal contained in that Act is a proposal to introduce a compensation institution for entrepreneurs who are bound by a decision of a public authority by a decision of the State to close down their business activities for a limited period of time. Of course, a company which has to close, suspend its business activity not because of its own fault or not because of its own economic decision or economic, business decision, only because the State authority has ordered it to bear the costs. We believe that in a legal state, in a country which respects citizens and economic operators, reimbursement of costs incurred by virtue of the execution of a State order must be made in such a situation. Of course, given the situation and the fact that not all costs incurred or potentially incurred by the trader could be reimbursed in a rational manner and even calculated and subsequently refunded, applicants rationalise their proposal and limit it only to the fixed costs, enumeratively mentioned in the draft law. These are, firstly, those costs relating to the execution of contracts for the supply of liquid fuels, gas and electricity, secondly, to the execution of contracts for the supply of water and the discharge of waste water, thirdly, to the execution of lease and lease contracts, it is known, and fourthly, to the cost of remuneration for hiring workers. The compensation would be payable to the company upon request, i.e. only those undertakings which consider that not only do they have the right but also the need, and ask the State authority to pay compensation for the time of closure because of the administrative ban on doing so. Of course in the proposal Everything here is described here not only the statements must be made, and it must be punishable for making false statements, but also the documentation which proves these losses, etc. Another proposal is to suspend the trade ban on Sundays. I'll talk about this proposal in a minute, at the end. Another proposal, very important in my opinion and in our opinion, is the creation of an institution of the right to suspend business activity by the smallest companies operating in Poland, micro-enterprises employing several people. Many such companies in a time of crisis, which is caused by an epidemic, have problems with maintaining their liquidity, are in check, because on the one hand, you would want to not lose, not lose, not bankrupt, but on the other hand, if you continue your business, you cannot achieve this goal and the company may cease to exist, and employees may go to the pavement. This happens, as you already know, because we already have a few months of experience with the epidemic, especially in situations where there is a ban on economic activity, but not on this company, but for example. an object in which this company operates. E.g. A watchmaker who fixes watches or sells stripes in a gallery, or a shoemaker who has a point there, or, I don't know, a laundry... They can work, the state has not shut down this company's business, but they have closed down the gallery business, and therefore there are no customers, there is no turnover, all costs have to be paid and after some time you can lose the company. Similar situations have been affected, for example. School shops. After all, no one banned the activities of school shops, but when the school closes, it goes into a hybrid way of teaching, not to mention remote teaching, of course the shop loses its clientele and loses its chance of being. In such situations, these micro-entrepreneurs could suspend their business activity and this is what we are proposing. Thanks to this suspension, without having to bear the cost of maintaining this firewall during the time when there is a trouble, trouble, they could survive, and when the difficult time has passed, they would return to their business. These are practically all the 4 most important solutions of this project. The rest of the rules apply to... Art. 2 is a confirmation that the proposed proposed measures planned under this law fall within the category of State aid, i.e. those covered by the conditions of the European Union. Art. 3 speaks of the date of entry into force and vacathio legis. Why did I skip the point on the suspension of trade on Sunday? Not just because during the committee's work I'm reporting this work. Maybe 90%, maybe 85%. , it is difficult to count, I did not count, but on the eye of the absolute majority of the debate, almost the whole discussion was devoted to the issue of trade on Sunday, i.e.. suspension of the trade ban on Sunday, as if it were a fundamental slaughter. And I would like to say that the fundamental proposal in this project This is, Mr. Senator, compensation for closing the company, the right for small Polish entrepreneurs to suspend their business activity. These are the most important things. Polish citizen, as he wishes and must fulfil some obligation towards the state... Sometimes he's afraid to open a mailbox. As he sees a letter with an official stamp there, he feels fear because he doesn't know what to do, and he doesn't even have anyone to ask. And the point is that he can ask, say, "I have such a duty to do." I think it can be realized anyway. I'm asking you, organ, whether I'm right or wrong. If you don't, I'll correct my opinion. If so, this is how I want to achieve it. In my opinion, these are three fantastic, phenomenal proposals. Unfortunately, or steths, because I understand that they don't cause... To be honest, there was actually no big comment in the discussion. or criticism of these institutions. It's not enough if I understand the political language not only of the senators, but also of the government... I saw sympathy and acceptance of these proposals, and the discussion focused on the suspension of the trade ban on Sunday. As rapporteur, I would like to say that I have learned that the senator acting on behalf of the applicants, when he has a debate on this point, will submit to the minutes a few amendments to this law. These amendments will respond to the comments made by the Minister and during the discussion. The idea is to make it easier for everyone to take an even more positive approach to this law. Among the amendments tabled will also be an amendment deleting this point so that this law passes. It's about the trade ban on Sunday. Then this bill will be able to get the full support of the House, because what, as we have seen, divides the most... It's incomprehensible to me, but okay. We as applicants do not approach our projects fundamentally, we do not approach them politically, as is sometimes the case with other applicants. We go out, we look, we try to find the golden center, somewhere in the middle to meet the adversaries. A compromise is needed, especially in times of epidemic, in times of crisis. People should connect, not share. Some things can be put off later, at least for a while. We will have the next 100 years in Poland to share and argue, but in times of crisis let us try to work together. Therefore, this point will not be made, such an amendment will be tabled. And this, Mr Marshal, I believe, is exhausting my duties as rapporteur for the report. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[It's freezing.]] Krzysztof Kwiatkowski first, Mr. Senator. Excuse me, sir. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski just came in first. You guys have the same name, beautiful name, and that's why you're in this mess. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u223	Mr Senator, I welcome this initiative because the project will be deprived of the elements that triggered the discussion. And my question is, if this year's situation is really... I immediately say that I am positive about any initiative supporting entrepreneurs whether they are government projects or whether they are parliamentary projects, as was the case with individual targets. Isn't this project unique in a good way? Because he's the first to break the rule that we're helping post factum. This project proposes in advance certain forms of assistance in relation to the situations that occur and may arise in the future. If the State and its authorities take a legal or factual decision by closing or restricting any activity, the trader already knows that he will receive compensation. We are introducing a permanent principle whereby the trader knows what the compensation will be and what costs he will be able to cover for this compensation. Well, in the case of the activities of small and medium-sized companies, the possibility of suspension of activity is introduced in terms of the number of employees and the scale of economic activities carried out in Poland. I would like to congratulate you on this question: is this the first time we are dealing with a project which, in this exceptional situation in advance, offers some solutions to entrepreneurs, rather than trying to better or worse determine the form of compensation for the event only after a specific injury has occurred?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u225	Thank you for asking, Senator. I am convinced that this is the idea of this project. So far, all kinds of projects, legislative proposals that went to the Senate, have been solutions that act as if retroactively. Well, something's happening in the country, something's happening in the economy, of course it's all about the epidemic, and we're watching what the effect is, what the scale is going to be, and we're reacting. This is a colloquially termed fire department operation. And that makes people, entrepreneurs and employees not feel stable, not comfortable because they don't know what's ahead. In business. Everyone who has ever carried on an economic activity, no matter what level, knows that The problems are not important. It's important to know these problems. Economic activity involves planning and implementing a plan, not dreaming about something in the evening, and in the morning it begins to happen. Therefore, establishing certain procedures and presenting them in advance, in advance, to all citizens, including entrepreneurs, is of great importance, not only for their activities, for the effectiveness of this activity, but also for their mental peace and even for their faith in the state. This is about trusting your country. Yes, my country is not my enemy. My country is here to help me. My country is making sure that I succeed in my life. And I'm sure that's what we want to achieve, at least to the extent that the project talks about. All these proposals, which are included here, do not work backwards, will not include effects, effects of past events. They are calculated on actions taking place after the entry into force of the Act. The Act has a period of vacathio legis, yes, short but shortest of those which are legally acceptable and which are in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, 14 days. So that it is not the same as most of the laws that we are dealing with here and which basically have any period of vacathio legis, but enter into force the second day after adoption. I hope that slowly stabilizing the situation in Poland, all of us, the government, parliament, the Sejm and the Senate will go in this direction to create permanent, predictable, transparent and clear rules, procedures and principles that people are to follow.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor and ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u227	Mr. Marshal, one comment on Senator Kwiatkowski's question and this answer. Well, it's a question, I'd say, of interpretation, whether it's the first law, which, as it were, offers assistance... We are e.g. passed Shield 6.0 and entrepreneurs will be released from the ZUS for November, and the payment of ZUS for November is in December. So here's what I'm going to say, moving forward. Yes? 'Cause the duty they're gonna have to do in December for November... That's the kind of help you get ahead of yourself. But that's what I'm gonna say, second thing. You could say that this support, I suppose, will also apply to past... But it doesn't matter. I have two questions for the senator. First question. You said 85%. the time at the National Economics Committee meeting... I think it was a joint committee meeting, if I'm not mistaken. [[Yes.]] ...the issue of the suspension of the trade ban on Sundays during the pandemic. Well, that's pretty much true, isn't it? Mr Senator, the issue of these Sundays was indeed time-consuming in terms of the issue raised by the senators, but the second very important element which was raised and which you did not present or which you left out was the inestimable cost of the bill, which is in many billions of zlotys. It's about paying those damages. I'm just skipping out on why it's exactly the cost of an applicant, I'd say, they chose. Well, there are fixed costs, but these fixed costs are different in different companies, so you can look at them differently. So that, as I recall, in addition to these discussions about Sundays, the issue of the costs of this law was raised very strongly. Yes? Cost, so to speak, mediocre. You can imagine someone hiring someone and giving him a salary of PLN 100,000 a month. And now you're gonna have to refund it. Yes? Today, on the basis of current laws, parking is granted in certain situations, payment of ZUS etc. is deferred. Well, there are some boundaries. The point is not to let this help take place on the principle of spending money lightly. And this bill... Well, that would be tens of billions of zlotys. We've had this proposal from the Senate about health care, that we're giving everyone... The government estimated it at 40 billion. Well, there are different estimates in this case, but these are definitely billions. Would you mind addressing these costs? I'm sure that was part of the committee's discussion. As I understand it, you are the rapporteur at the moment, so it would be necessary to discuss this element of costs which was raised at the committee meeting, among other things. because of me, but I think Senator Czerwiński picked it up, and many others. That's the first question. And second question, if I can still fit in time. The second point that I think I actually missed at the committee meeting is the question of interpretation, because somehow I didn't see it. When it comes to interpretations for individuals, what organs are they supposed to be? Everyone at all or just the tax authorities? Someone has a problem, it turns out. to the commune, to the ZUS, to something to tell him how to do, right? Is it somehow limited, e.g. thematically, in terms of interpretations for non-business individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u229	Thank you very much. As far as fixed costs are concerned, it is very simple because they are, as I said, enumeratively mentioned. These are the ones that are in fact hard to imagine, in fact, that there is a company that does not have such costs. Well, I don't think a company that doesn't use electricity or other energy sources doesn't use or have real estate for which, if it's not his, doesn't pay for the rental or doesn't pay for the rental of et cetera. It's narrowed down to this. Any rational proposal to extend this would certainly be subject to at least a kind analysis, and probably even consent to it. The applicants, of course, with pain, narrowed it down so that there is no charge that there are too many elements to take into account or it is difficult to calculate. 'Cause you could imagine you'd go in the direction. not compensation, but towards compensation, but then we would even have to address the issue of lost benefits. Then there would be a problem with calculating it. So I understand the senator's question more so that there should be more of these costs than any other. I wouldn't argue with that. The issue of impact assessment. The OSR was attached to the draft and, following the discussion in the committee, it is supplemented in line with the comments made there. I do not go into the details and details of the report, because everyone has them, it is, as I said, in print no 232 S. The OSR is made in accordance with. and otherwise it cannot be done with the methodology and guidelines of the government. It is not possible for applicants to carry out an impact assessment according to some of their own principles, assessments, methodologies. The OSR has 10 pages, i.e. the impact assessment of the regulation is probably longer than the law itself and the justification, and presents the effects. Of course, these aren't the tens of billions of zlotys you were talking about. In fact, in terms of cost, it's either a trace or an invisible one, of course, in terms of the financial aspect of the bill against those who end up here. Because it is the costs of these laws of Law and Justice that come here, whether signed as Members of Parliament or signed as Government, that go up to tens of billions of zlotys. E.g. the cost of compensation for the companies in total, all of them, because they are broken down into different groups, is estimated here at PLN 300 million. This is PLN 233 million for closed galleries or PLN 77 million for restaurants and gastronomy. Because we're only talking about those companies that were shut down. Like I said, we're not going back, it's not going to be about that, it's going to be about the future. But how can we calculate the future? How can we know what the government will want to close someday? So these are just possible estimates based on history, what happened. And that doesn't have to come true. Similarly, as regards the projection of the effects of the suspension of activities by micro-enterprises. Well, that right hasn't been there so far, there's no right, so how do we figure out what to figure out? But the experts from the analysis, also after talking to government experts, calculated this effect on PLN 86 million. Of course, all these amounts, Mr. Senator, which I'm giving you, are the amounts calculated per month, which is if you close the company for a week or two, it'll be less, if it's for two months, it'll be more. The conversion rate was accepted for a month. I, to be honest, I hope... We have probably all heard today that Britain is already entering the vaccination of citizens, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced some time ago that the first vaccines should be in Poland on January 18th, which is next month. I hope if all this goes well And let's keep our fingers crossed so we can. It is these problems with the negative effects of the pandemic that we will have less than so far, so these costs should also be lower. But as Senator Kwiatkowski said, we cannot wait, we must prepare some framework and instruments for the future. If it doesn't happen in some negative option we're afraid of, then our good will be less bad situations and less cost to the state. Anyway, back to the senator's digression about Senator Kwiatkowski's question, I'm going to say that Senator Kwiatkowski is right, not Senator Kwiatkowski's. Why? Because this example you gave is inadequate, because it was those proposals in Shield 6.0 that we discussed last week and subjected to the senate procedure that we voted on in the Senate on Saturday, they all concerned companies that have suffered since March, suffering throughout the summer. After all, tourism fell in the summer. Exhibition, trade fair, exhibition, conference industry, all these months, April, May, June and July, there was nothing there. Or almost nothing. And only now, at the turn of November and December, is there a bill that will help those companies who were in trouble in July or August. So this is a retroactive action after all. And here we propose action for the future. But I'd like to say, let's not argue with this. This isn't really the point. The essence of the matter is to create together something that will help, not drag a rope, who is right and whether something works backwards or forwards and whether someone reacted too late or too early. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question... [[I'd just remind you that I asked two questions.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. Then I apologize to the senator. Mr. Senator... [[I'm sorry, I'm just talking about the formal...]] [[Oh, interpretations?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u231	I'm very sorry, sir, about the formal issue, if you'll allow the marshal... I have a huge request. Let us shorten these questions, let us ask them specifically, and I also ask for concrete answers, because some senators are waiting here, and we will have two more busy committee meetings today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u232	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u233	Yeah, that's right. I'm sorry I missed those interpretations. Inverse interpretations... 'Cause the senator asked if they were gonna be about, like, tax issues. No, we exclude tax issues from this institution of interpretation, they will go the way they have been so far, while all other public-legal obligations, not any, but those which are public-legal obligations of the citizen, may be subject to individual interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to do the task of the question of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, which lasts no more than a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Question one. If point 1 in Article. 1 concerns individual interpretations for the citizen, let's call it, what does he have to do with COVID? Why don't you offer it permanently, just for a period of time, I'd call it covidative? Question two. It's about the cost of doing business. Fuels It's gas only. Why not liquid? I don't get it. But never mind the fuel, because if you don't do business, if you freeze it, you don't use it. But I'm sure you're wearing out the heat, the system heat, because the room needs to be heated. Why is the choice of these costs, the type of costs, just like that, and not the costs that entrepreneurs actually bear during downtime? And question three. It concerns a simple matter: have these costs already been calculated by you We were at the committee meeting talking about it. At least it's estimated? That's the main reason we've tried this bill. Contrary to appearances, it was not about work on Sunday, it was about trade on Sunday, although also, but mainly about the lack of an estimate of these costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u237	Thank you very much. Question one: why not permanently? I'm sure the applicants would like it to be permanent, and it's up to the government, the Senate and the Sejm to decide whether, in the future, this will be permanent, but now there's a pandemic time and we're addressing issues that affect people at that time. He's completely different, but we don't have to find out about it here than normal, colloquially speaking, time. In such situations, things arise that people don't know how to handle, and they have to do their public duty. Giving them this right at this particular time, a question combined with a presentation of their views on how to do their duty, is particularly important. I hope that when this comes into force, it is precisely this period that will be good to see how we speak colloquially, in the laundry, how this instrument works, and decide whether to introduce it permanently, and I believe that yes, based on these experiences, as we have introduced or proposed the introduction on the basis of our experience of an instrument that concerns entrepreneurs, related to interpretations, or an instrument concerning the suspension of economic activity, which has been in operation for 10 years and which we now want to expand. As far as costs are concerned, I'm going to say what I said to Senator Mr. Frost. As a representative of the applicants, but also as a rapporteur, because here I combine these functions, I am convinced that most of those who at least support this law would undoubtedly look favorably at any rational amendment that would complement this catalogue with such costs as seem justified. The applicants have selected such costs, even too self-limiting, I would say not to be accused of seeing it too widely. Surely if there were amendments extending this directory, because it is difficult to imagine narrowing it down, it would certainly be welcomed. It must also be remembered that we are launching the legislative process, and we are not finishing it, so that if, in the course of the work, especially as it goes to the Sejm, there are amendments, doubts or comments similar to that of the Senator, this catalogue can undoubtedly be completed. I'll go back to the cost. As I said during the answer to Senator Mr. Frost's questions, all the data that can be calculated responsibly Not some number taken from the ceiling It is included in the impact assessment of the regulation accompanying printing No 232 S. They count 10 pages, there are tables, calculations, indicators, of course data collected from government sources are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you... Part of the question has already been asked by Senator Frost and Senator Czerwinski, only the two of them... [[I don't hear that question.]] In the OSR, which you refer to, there are, among others, 232 S in print. Opinions submitted. It is the opinion of the Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy, who pointed out that the explanatory memorandum of the bill did not specify the financial implications of the proposed regulation, nor did it indicate the sources of funding for the expenditure of the public finance sector. That is why I ask and ask for a specific answer: what are the financial consequences? I am not asking here how many parties have an OSR or about the effects of some individual regulation, but about the overall financial consequences of this regulation, which is proposed throughout this amendment of the law. So what are the sources of funding? Because it's very important too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u240	Thank you very much. Then I answer very specifically. The financial impact is calculated exactly at PLN 396 million per month. I'll stress it a month. If the actions are shorter, these effects will be smaller, and if they last longer, but so far there has been no situation to close something, for example. for six months or a year, and it's hard to imagine anything like that, that would be higher. But here it was calculated at PLN 396 million a month. So it's no money in terms of comparing the costs of all eight shields, because that's how you have to count the parliamentary government. Because 6 is anticovid and 2 financial, which is a total of 8. And they generate over 100 billion zlotys. And here we're talking about 396 million that could be calculated. Source. Well, the source is the same as in the case of shields, because this is a draft bill... Please note that this is not a draft law on suspension of business, it is not a draft bill on compensation for closed companies, but it is a draft law amending the law from March this year, which we call colloquially a shield, and it has been changed so far 6 times. This draft Print Law No 232 is intended to amend this law, so it refers to the same source of funding. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent them. I have a question for the representative of the government: does he want to speak on the bill presented? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Government representative. Do you want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u242	Dear Marshal, because I am really not so much here as a representative of the government, because the government did not take a collegial position, but simply as a representative of one of the departments that presented their positions in writing... These positions are part of the project documentation and I assume that everyone had the opportunity or opportunity to get acquainted with them. I had a chance to speak before. Therefore, let me use this to stop saying that the position is in writing. Unless, of course, the senators would very much like... But I'm assuming that at this time of night, it's just a written form.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u243	Thank you very much. But as a matter of fact, I'm going to ask, would any of your senators like to ask a question to a government representative? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u244	Yes, Mr. Marshal, but it will be a short question and I think the Minister can answer very briefly. Does your resort support this bill or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u245	I can only say that of course we have reported as a resort of development, work and attention technologies which are critical of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u246	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Szejnfeld will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I do not want to repeat myself because there is such a coincidence that I am in the role and rapporteur, and so in some way I presented my point of view, and the representative of the senators and senators who signed up for this project. But I would like to repeat what I said: we live in a time that Poland and Poles have not known for many generations. And I'm not going to compare that time because it probably wouldn't be an appropriate comparison until the war. In any event, such a crisis, whatever the source, has never been, and therefore we should at least try to find solutions that link us in the joint fight against the effects of the epidemic, those that actually affect everyone, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of economic, economic terms, of all people, whether they are employers or employees. This project, I think, has been, too. Please pay attention. It is narrowed down to practically 4 proposals. One of these is just to show that we're coming out and we want to eliminate what's between us and build what can connect us. And in the case of three proposals, it is difficult to imagine that they could be conflicting. Because why deny a citizen the right to ask his country how to behave? We've got a lot of people on the law. They don't know. After all, we have plenty of people who are inexperienced, for example. well-educated, but they don't have life experience, which means I'm talking about young people. And we have a lot of seniors, we have more than 9 million people who often have these new solutions, new responsibilities that affect them from the state side, they don't understand, they don't know how to behave. Why shouldn't we give them the right to ask? To say more: this is the sacred duty of a state which respects its citizens. The state is to be friendly, to help, to give advice, to teach as necessary, to take your hand and to carry out a difficult time, not to lie on the citizen Ah, maybe he'll make a mistake, ah, maybe he'll apply differently, worse, not as we want, and we'll use the empire of the state to punish him. No, let's get this over with. Let the citizen have the right to present his/her point of view to his/her country, ask you whether he/she can do so. This is, in my opinion, a fantastic, wonderful, wonderful idea that we can start today. We'll see how it's realized, but we can start this idea together. The same is true of compensation. After all, if someone and often they are Polish, family-owned companies, has been running their business for several generations, trying to reinvest the money they earn, and suddenly there comes a time like this, and there is a danger that not only will he lose his business, but he will lose the company of parents and grandparents who worked for it... Why not help him in this extremely obvious way? If someone banned, he will pay compensation for it, and if he doesn't pay for it, then at least compensation, which is part of the compensation. Share it. Well, there's a time that costs all of us, including those people who aren't entrepreneurs. Well, part of the cost, unfortunately, due to this difficult time, you, entrepreneur, but at least part of the costs, the fixed costs, we will compensate you because we banned your business. And this third institution, which is the right to suspend business activity. I remember, I introduced this bill as Deputy Minister of Economy, a decade ago. They were all against it. Everyone in the government, everyone in government agencies, in public institutions. Anyway, about interpretation, too. Interpretations work for 10 years and it turns out that all comments, reservations somehow did not make much sense. The same with regard to the suspension of economic activity. So let's give a chance to a small entrepreneur, a micro-entrepreneur, so that he doesn't lose his company, he doesn't fire the workers who are gonna come to you for unemployment benefits, and then if they don't find a job, they're gonna get welfare benefits. Let's give them a chance to make it through this difficult time together. Again, sharing a certain cost, because it is not cost-effective, neither for the entrepreneur nor for the state. But, as I said, if the state pays the parking lot, it won't pay the unemployment benefit. The result will always be better. To conclude, I would like to appeal to the High House, especially on the side of the Law and Justice Club, because here the most doubts, as I would like to say, are that it should behave constructively, with imagination, with respect and kindness. I think that's how the Minister presented his position, on behalf of his department, especially at the committee meeting, because here maybe less, but at the committee meeting... Besides, even from the document that was submitted... There is no text that, in its criticism, would ruin our proposals. It seems to me that every criticism, when it is constructive, is not only acceptable, but must generate respect. Only deaf, blind, partisan criticism is unacceptable and cannot cause respect. As far as this project is concerned, I have met with rational criticism, and that is why I thank you for it. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u248	Thank you very much. Senator Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u249	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have this feeling that we're talking about a really important project, even a little bit of damage, that it's being discussed at such late hours. I shall also speak after checking, making sure that the legislators are still preparing the meeting of the Legislative Commission. That is why I have the courage to take part in this discussion, at this point, with such a feeling that we are really talking about a unique project, of course in a specific context. Notice, as we discussed in this Chamber, this is the first time we have a chance not to be in the time we are in every time, in relation to events. Someone's making decisions, and that someone in this case is a public administration, about shutting down some industry, or about radically reducing a given activity. An entrepreneur in this business doesn't know what he's doing. He often has to wait long weeks to find out what form of State aid will be, whether another shield will cover it or not, what rules of support will be prepared in this document. This document has a unique advantage, because it speaks of a philosophy. If the State takes decisions affecting the citizen Because the one who runs a small or large business activity is also a normal citizen It is for this reason that the State has certain obligations. So as not to be literal At the meeting of the Senate committee, the spokesperson for small and medium-sized companies, former PiS Member, said exactly that: if you are shutting down any activity, you must pay compensation. Did he say anything revealing? No. This principle was governed by Roman law and covered various situations. I'd remind you if anyone didn't remember... Well, enough to mention here the words of a prominent figure in the history of Rome, Julian Apostate, who said: "I am ashamed that I cannot give everyone a full sense of security from any harm. Yes, this well-known good administrator, who signed up for the golden reports in Rome's history, already knew that the state had a duty to do so. If you're looking for closer examples... I was looking for an example that could address certain political backgrounds in a special way. Well, the American politician from the 20th century, probably the Republican, Clare Luce said, "Luck can't be bought with money, but money can provide incredible comfort in times of misfortune." We have times of misfortune. We have today a pandemic not only health but also economic, with all the consequences. And this project de facto meets the expectations of these environments. We are about to appeal to these circles, saying: invest, expand. This will not be without an elementary sense of responsibility, security and stability on the state line Citizen. And this stability is given by the rules that have been prepared and are here, in this project. Do we have any far-reaching proposals? Please note: if the principle of suspension is introduced in this project, then there is no... It's not said that it's about profits. We're just talking about covering some of the costs, and not all of them, just some of the costs. Is it in the interest of the employer, the one who owns the company, to suspend business? No, it's just an emergency, a crisis option. If we're talking about compensation for closed operations... I would like to say publicly here that if we do not introduce such a mechanism, any of these entrepreneurs will still be able to go to court with a legitimate claim, because it will be the consequences of the state decision. Do we want tens of thousands of applications that will affect Polish courts after the end of the pandemic period? It is better to introduce a mechanism described at the statutory level. That is why, especially after what the Senator rapporteur did, that is, after he withdrew from those provisions that gave rise to a particularly lively discussion... Whether we like it or not, they were at the crossroads of economic and worldview; of course, I'm talking about trade on Sunday. Once we removed these records, this project became, as it seems, a very good proposition, absolutely. You can talk about it, modify it, change the details, but it is certainly worth taking this project, allowing you to continue working on detailed assumptions in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u250	Thank you very much, Senator. You will speak to Senator Dowhan, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u251	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I hope you can hear me from Green Mountain... [[I can hear you.]] Thank you very much. High Izbo! I also want to say in short words that this is a unique project and that it is worth leaning over. It is worth putting aside political emotions and other considerations and leaning on a project that is really forward-looking and that will do a lot of things. As my previous speaker said, a few elements that were disputed or very disputed have been removed. Now, I think this is certainly a good proposition and from those who have been working on it, it looks really very good. I know that today we don't really know what tomorrow's government is going to introduce, what industries it's going to close, whether it's going to prolong the pandemic or if the virus is going to be in reverse, because we've found out that this is one big mystery. One day the Minister of Finance says that no taxes will increase in 2021, and in several days there will be a government project, which President Andrzej Duda has signed quietly, because he was more interested in his skiing than he was hitting thousands of family companies and limited companies or people who, like us, travel to work for bread every day and will have to pay tax, even though the advance on this tax is already deducted from their employers. In a few words, I just wanted to express my support and ask those sitting on the other side of the room to put aside the animosities, some other consideration for them to lean on the substance, to do so with affection and head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Frost will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u253	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I'm just going to refer to these three elements regarding this bill. The first question is perhaps a defect, I don't know, the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Well, maybe a defect is too big a word. This is a practice that has come to light, something that I myself have used to make it clear, namely that there are amendments to the bill in the debate, and most of them do not know what amendments are, because the different senators who report these amendments do not discuss them. And then, at the committee meeting, it's just a vote and it's hard to say... These are often amendments that change the project very much. If by accident Senator Szejnfeld hadn't said there was a withdrawal from the commercial Sunday record, we wouldn't even know it. This is actually a simple amendment, but often, for example. in the case of economic laws, the solutions are very complex and it would be worth getting to know them in advance. Often the industry committee... It could refer to any bill. After the committee meeting, we get a summary of the amendments and bam, bam, we have to respond. It's difficult, but I'm just talking about it on the margins. I'm going back to the bill. I can't agree with the senator here. Maybe the senator's missing some things. It is about such any advice, interpretation for citizens. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in our previous term of office, on the initiative of the government, we have introduced a very... loosened... we have expanded our support circle for pensioners, pensioners, seniors, poor people. I'm talking about free legal counseling, which is implemented de facto in every county. Often, it depends on how it is organised. It's in every municipality. This is financed. This counseling is organized by lawyers, by district attorneys' councils, district counsellors' councils. I myself often send people who come to my senate office because one day there was such an interpretation that we cannot provide legal assistance in senators' offices. I wouldn't want to try to do that. If advice is for the senator, you can, and when someone comes for advice, the expense on it is questioned. We've expanded the catalog. I'm saying "we," which is "state," right? The state has extended its aid to people who have problems. Now they can get professional legal help. We've expanded the range. not only the subject, but also the subject. In these points you can get even specific writings, and earlier it was often oral advice. This has been extended, there are written letters to the offices. In addition, it has been extended by the so-called. Citizens' aid, if I'm not mistaken. There are people, let's say, helpless lives who don't know where to get help. In addition to legal assistance, the so-called legal aid is provided to them. Citizens' aid. She is given in every district for those who need it. This certainly applies to pensioners, pensioners and poorer people. I, to be honest, when I had a problem like this and I asked you at the office, I never did. I didn't happen. And I'm not talking about the time when I was a senator. I don't want her to help me. At the office, someone always said please fill out this note or if you fill out this application, please... It would be hard for me to even think of... the senator here... Mr. Marshal didn't give an example of such a citizen's problem... And for us to introduce some legal counseling. I'm afraid that maybe it's all kinds of foams, etc., etc. We'll flood some, I don't know, government or local government offices, but I'm talking about public administration offices. I'm gonna say it's a necessity... Because I understand that it will be free and without restrictions. Today there are many such areas of assistance. And even if I did agree to some extent, it might be the current legal aid that is being implemented in every county, to expand or loosen in time for the pandemic, because it has some kind of limitations there. You're looking at me, Senator Kwiatkowski, who's a lawyer, so he's probably able to say even in legal details here. But so broad, so experimental... And it's in covid time, when most of these offices are closed. And the fact that the citizen is going to present some idea and the office is going to refer to it. I don't see it. Let us look perhaps in those areas that today operate in the country. Expansion... 'Cause I'm sure helping the citizens is. I remember the speech of a representative of the Ministry of Finance, but also entrepreneurs talk about it. As far as these taxes are concerned, since we've established the National Tax Administration, there's been less control. And in fact, there is even such an assumption in the constitution for business, so that these entrepreneurs do not punish. There's less control, they're more pointy, and they're made in KAS by a powerful analyst, so he's trying to capture himself... Because it's because of computerization. Mr. Senator said this is where you want to chase someone, lock them up. Of course, these are people and they probably react differently, but I think the public administration is becoming more and more friendly. And that is also the assumption of the government and Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki, not to punish, but to help. And I'm very much in this direction. And it's happening. Of course, this may be happening in different situations, in different institutions, in some industries. There are habits... Often these officials still mentally feel that... some. If there's a clerk and she's gonna nail that stamp, then... And if he's not, because he's in a bad mood, he won't. But that's changing a lot. The administration has changed a lot. In general, we are opening up as a country, because the administration has a continuous system regardless of who is in charge. The point is to make it so business-friendly. And that's why, speaking of interpretation, I asked you about tax... 'Cause there's actually a way to give that help out there. But again, for example. individuals, de facto pensioners, pensioners... In their case, the tax offices actually fill in the PIT themselves. Yes? Well, I'll be honest: I don't know enough and you didn't say enough, and in fact at the committee meeting it was hardly at all mentioned. Nobody gave me any examples that would convince me. Probably theoretically they are. But I see that this area of help for the citizen is already here today, and it's widened. This is one issue when it comes to interpretations. The second point, more so, is that it's serious about the genre of the case. That's compensation. I can honestly say that on average I am convinced by the calculation of the type: the catering industry - 80 million PLN per month, slightly counting, 60,000 points, most of which de facto have... If the government is planning today for entrepreneurs in a financial shield, where it's also... I don't know if you've read it. I'm talking to Mr. Szejnfeld that there'll be funding for wages. Not just parking, but funding at all. There are limits and various aid that is estimated at 35 billion for micro, small, medium and large companies. And here you are talking about such a broad compensation. It's not just wages. Where there is no limit. Someone could hire someone in the future for $100,000, right? And he'll say, well, pay me because my business is closed. And that's objective because she's locked up. And that's where they talk about some, I don't know, 300 million. In general this amount, I believe, is several times or several times understated. We're still talking about energy, rents, right? It's really, believe me, I think we're talking billions here. But even assuming that... because we can move around here with that amount. But, ladies and gentlemen, Polish entrepreneurs were not left behind... Yes? There were some spring shields. Often ridiculed, why so much. Because reality is changing, entrepreneurs keep applying for something... [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Just one last thing. And she's being replenished. Well, today we want to give entrepreneurs 35 billion. Yes? Well, someone wants to give, I don't know, 300 million a month... And our government is offering 35 billion that will go to entrepreneurs and go to subsidising wages and other elements of the operation of these companies. So these presented costs are completely, I'm sorry, unrealistic. If I may have one more sentence... Maybe I'll sign up for another five minutes. Since time's up, I'm signing up for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u254	Okay, that could be another five minutes. [[Now?]] No, no, it's gonna... [[Oh, good.]] Right now, Mr. Senator Szejnfeld, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u255	Mr. Marshal, I wanted to use 30 seconds of those five minutes, but the questions were raised by Senator Mr. Mr. Frost... [[They provoked you...]] I understand that these are questions for me as a rapporteur, not as an applicant, so these 30 seconds... [[Because Mr. Marshal cut it like that...]] Mr Senator, at the expense of time for the applicant, I will answer as rapporteur. So I'm not going to use that limit. But I'll start with the formalities. I would like to make a request, Mr. Marshal, to hold a third reading at this meeting. I also want to formally make the amendments I have spoken of on behalf of the applicants. As soon as I say this, I will grant Senator Mr. Frost's wish, which is to make four amendments. The first amendment concerns Article. Point 1 (2), Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) It is about clarifying what the legislator, the drafter of the bill understands as remuneration. The second amendment concerns Article. Point 1 (2), Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) It responds to, like the first one, comments, among others. the government side. She will clarify the period for which compensation is paid. It's about every day the company closes. Third amendment: Article Point 4 is deleted, i.e. the suspension of the trade ban on Sundays. And the fourth amendment that proves that applicants are limited rather than going all the way. Well, they could... We're also clarifying which one of these micro-entrepreneurs could suspend the company. Not everyone... This also goes in the direction of taking into account the comments that were presented by the government. Because not everyone who wants to, not everyone whose income level has fallen... Per analogy of the solutions that were with us on Friday and Saturday last week, or Shield 6.0, we take into account the drop in revenue by 40%. So there really has to be drama and tragedy for someone to want... We give him the right to suspend his business. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's supposed to be a rescue device. It's supposed to be a rescue device. And these are the amendments. That's it as an applicant. And as rapporteur, I have a big problem, Senator, to answer you so that you don't take my words personally... Well, you can see clearly... But everyone has the right, because you are neither an entrepreneur nor a lawyer, you don't need to know everything. But if you criticize something and make your vote dependent on something, then you have to know. Your entire argument about individual interpretations, comparison with legal advice free of charge... It's not like anyone who wants to use it can use it. There are conditions, only the poorest people... It has nothing to do with... You don't understand what you are... But, like I said, I don't want to offend you. It's just that everyone has a right not to know. Well, I don't know a lot of things either, most of them I don't know. Nobody's an alpha or an omega. Individual interpretation from any counseling, regardless of the fact that it is, I say, very narrowed down, differs from the fact that if someone gets such advice, whether from a counseling point of view or from a professional or commercial law firm, it doesn't mean anything to the authority. It doesn't mean anything. Yes, that may be the basis for a citizen's application for interpretation, but that doesn't mean anything. Why? Because it doesn't bind the organ. The interpretation we are talking about is therefore of a pro-Citizen nature, that if a citizen asks you, figuratively speaking... [[Mr. Senator, five minutes are up.]] I'm almost done. ...and get an answer, she's the one who ties up this body and all the other authorities of the state. That's it. This is the pro-Citizen's power of individual interpretation that differs from any private advice or state advice that is only subsidiary, auxiliary, but does not have any administrative, legal, legal significance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u256	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski will speak. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three documents in front of me right now: the first one, originally from print No 232, the second one, which came out after the committee in print No 232 S, and the third one, which will be after possible approval of the amendments. Question: Which one are they referring to? Well, in the case of the first 2 choices, it's easy because they're basically identical. No conclusions were drawn after the committee meeting or during the meeting. There were simply no amendments made, and indeed there were a lot of allegations at the committee meeting. This indicates that either applicants are very pleased with themselves and claim that no amendments are needed, or that nothing can be brought into this project and that it simply needs to be rejected. As you can see, applicants are trying to save themselves. Those amendments you're making, Senator. Szejnfeld pointed us out, they're going in the right direction, but unfortunately there's not enough of them. I'm rather inclined... [[Mr. Senator, that's what you think. You can make more amendments if you think the number matters.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] I'm willing to stop when I say that this project just can't be saved. I'll try to explain. The proposal contains 6 amendments to the current law plus a transitional and final provision, 2 changes are typically technical changes. There's no point in pissing them off. The change is very substantive. It concerns the restoration of all commercial Sundays for the duration of the pandemic. But that's what the applicants pulled out of, I understand, so we're not gonna have to worry about that either. What's left? [[But did you or did you not say you were dissatisfied?]] [[Mr. Senator, don't interrupt.]] The nerves are letting go. 3 changes. Let's start at the end. 2 changes are indeed related to COVID. The first concerns compensation for businesses for the duration of the suspension of their activities. The compensation would be to cover the costs of the operation. It's just, like I said here, the question is what we really want to compensate for. The costs that have been indicated here may practically not be present at the time of the suspension of operations. Whereas other costs that will certainly occur are not indicated in this law. So the choice was rather taken from the ceiling, not based on thought. The second provision is the possibility for micro-entrepreneurs to suspend their activities for a period of up to six months, in short, when turnover falls. Well, yeah, but it's also accompanied by a parking fee. It's not the entrepreneur who pays, it's the state. Both provisions, the implementation of both of these provisions costs money. The question is, how much? Well, we don't know that. I understand that it's been on your knees, raped, not even in industries, but in two kinds of activities. But it's still not enough. Such texts as should be economic texts That's how I'd put it. It should contain numbers, or at least justifications for them. If the OSR, the impact assessment of the regulation, looks like this: "No data', "no data', "no data', "no data' in those tables that you mentioned, or "0', "0', "0', "0', "0', the OSR doesn't say anything, doesn't give any information about the financial consequences. Which means we're really letting the genie out of the bottle. We do not know what will happen after possible implementation of this law. We don't know what the scope of this bill could be. And now I'm going to go to the first point, which is in the group of rules that are supposed to depend... or have a connection with the COVID. But he does not actually have such a relationship, because this is about extending individual interpretations, which at the moment are tax interpretations, generally to all public obligations of citizens. Well, if you think logically, this extension should apply, in line with the applicant's intention, of course, throughout the entire period, not only during the COVID epidemic. This should benefit the citizen. Well, let's consider what's really in the text of this point, this change. The point is that everyone is interesting, because everyone is not only a citizen, it is also a foreigner who has any interests in Poland, the word "everyone" has such a connotation, at least in the Constitution. He can fold... And now, for what? To the competent authority. In the case of state authorities... I don't know how many there are, I didn't count, but I'm sure hundreds. Maybe you can fix me up here eventually. The local authorities are 2 times as many as the local government units, and these are almost 3 thousand, about 2.6 thousand municipalities, over 300 counties, and they know how many voivodships, and that's all times 2 because the authorities are both constituting and implementing. I don't know if the applicants of this bill, this project, realize that they're really gonna clog up local governments. They will clog the local authorities, because they will force them to issue a mode that is not yet known, I would call it, citizens' individual interpretations even before the decision or any act which will result in a public duty towards the citizen. In fact, it's against local governments, but you can't see it at first glance, of course. But what else do we have here? A citizen may lodge with a competent authority or a competent national organizational unit... What is a State organizational unit? I found a definition out there somewhere. It is a legal entity which has no legal personality, set up by the government by separate laws to carry out the tasks of the State. I found more than 2,000 800 units in one of the sets. Such individuals, apart from ordinary activities, already hindered by COVID, will now be forced to Well, of course not now, just, God forbid, after the entry into force of such a law to issue interpretations, I would call it, civil, individual, as if they had nothing else to do. So I'm going to mention what kind of individuals are these: courts, tax offices, prosecutors' offices, health services, local review colleges, UKS, schools, museums, ODRs, RIOs, penalty bets, ZOZs, etc. As I say, there was over 2.8 thousand in the 1st set... And it certainly wasn't a complete set. Ladies and gentlemen, this point gives rise to additional responsibilities for the multitude of our officials, duties that really will not change anything in a citizen's situation. They will be an additional burden, and the effect will be counterproductive. Let's recap. We won't be bullying about the non-existent trade law on Sundays. These two provisions are uncounted, so it is not known what their legal effects will be. This provision, this change, gives rise to a difficult pictureable effect. What's the bill for? Well, someone's trying to pin a medal on themselves. I've seen a few of these around here, ladies and gentlemen. Someone promises some entities, mostly local corporations, that they'll be better off. He promises miracles-invisible, even brings the project, then pushes it through, because he has the majority needed to push such projects in the Senate. Plus, these projects are in the freezer somewhere, and the locals are out there. Although they're not just locals, they're different environments. They're happy to have a project. They have no rights in this regard, but the one who promised is in glory of fame and has a medal. And what does that really mean? Not much, just that we've been doing this for a long time on the committee, and then here in the Senate. [[It's been ten minutes.]] Yeah, long enough. Some even get tired for 10 minutes. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. I'm gonna take the floor if I... [[You're welcome.]] ...the facts I've presented... [[You've got five more minutes.]] ...will not be reflected in your voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Adam Szejnfeld. Ad vocem, right? No, you didn't. I'm sorry. [[I volunteered, but as a normal performance.]] Good. Senator Frost. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u259	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I've gotten a little out of it. In part, you've already said some things to Senator Czerwiński. I would just add, continuing the thought of Senator Czerwinski, that all these individual interpretations must be issued within 30 days, possibly within the next 15 days. I will remind you that administrative decisions are issued within 30 days and in complicated cases within 60 days. And here even in these complex cases, the deadlines are shorter than in the case of administrative decisions. Senator Szejnfeld was kind of telling me in quotes, explaining something, suggesting that I don't know what the difference between interpretation and aid is. Mr. Senator, I happen to know how tax interpretation works for business entities. There's some kind of limitations, some payback, and the scale of everything you're proposing... You said very strongly, Senator Czerwiński, that the applicants of this bill do not know exactly what they wrote, what a lot of cases it would be. On the one hand, the authorities will have to issue normal administrative decisions and on the other hand sit on those interpretations which will be quasi-administrative decisions. Well, if we're talking about some, I don't know, local government bodies, because that's what I think most... I tried to get some details from the senator, but I didn't make it. I'm talking about the plenary session because I actually missed it on the committee, and it's my fault, and I didn't ask. But that's one thing to do in a period of time, so to speak, covid, when most public administrations work remotely, there are limitations, etc., etc., etc. And I gave an alternative to helping people who might need help... I said, so looking at Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski then I look also now so that I can think and expand... Of course, this legal aid is limited, perhaps it would be necessary to extend it during the COVID period so that a larger group of people can get it, expand it and in terms of the subject matter and subject matter. And yes, and anyway, that money, so to speak, you spend it. Let's remember that sometimes they're very complicated... Well, somebody's got a problem with building permits and they're gonna ask the administration... or environmental decisions, where it's been a long time, and here's the deadline... So I don't see on that scale... I think it might be used by some people, but probably a lot of people would help. But the scale... I think that the public administration is not only self-government or state administration, but also public administration is not prepared for this in particular during the covid period. We would have to think about some form of support for people, and I think that this form of civic assistance that I presented today is funded, and this is a dense network, is possibly a solution, a response to needs. There's one thing I don't understand yet: if people have a problem, they don't necessarily have that problem in the COVID period. This help, this interpretation... Well, I could even say that in the COVID era they have fewer problems because they probably don't walk around these offices. But that's by the way. However, I will return to the fundamental issue, namely this aid, of these compensations. I believe that this law would make sense at the moment if there was no aid for entrepreneurs. Well, then, of course, there is no help, the opposition, Senator Szejnfeld and the applicant offer something. But this help is, she's counted, she's multi-billion-dollar... She was partially retro... I agree, but it is also for the future, because if this financial shield is functioning... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] That is why I believe that in such cases this should be consistent with what the government is proposing, because it will cost everything. You can write beautiful laws, but it is the Minister of Finance or the Deputy Prime Minister of Gowin... just from the state budget you will have to pay for it. If it was some kind of supplement to something that wasn't on that financial shield, you'd still be wondering... [[Mr. Senator, thank you...]] But this is opening another giant stream, which partially overlaps, probably doesn't overlap, without any limits. This is also very dangerous for public finances. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u260	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan remotely. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Frost tells so nicely and so well that I would even like to give up my five minutes to keep talking... As far as I can understand the substance of Senator Czerwinski, although I would disagree with the fact that, as he wanted, he wanted to pour out a gin with a bottle, because it's a shame, there's always a way to decontaminate, but in substance some comments are definitely worth thinking about... And you, Senator Frost, aren't exactly... I'm trying to understand you. I know you're a brilliant economist, and you've proven that lately, as we've been discussing limited companies and taxes. I think I'm even able to believe that 30 taxes that I mentioned, sometimes called fees, sometimes different, actually doesn't exist or arose a few term ago. But there's a project on the table that's worth leaning over. You can discuss it, you can still rob it. Today, the government may not be convinced, but it does not speak firmly. If we can help in any matter, then why shouldn't we? Why don't you throw away some mistakes or things that, say, come out in the laundry, and not move forward? There's a project that comes from us, and there's a wall, there's a wave of criticism, right away: you can't do that, you can't do that. You said that tax checks are now sporadic. I don't know if they're sporadic or not. Surely where they should be, they are and should be, because that is the domain of their actions. Once again, I ask you to accept it for further proceding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u262	There you go... Mr. Senator? [[Yes, to correct Senator Dowhan's words.]] But your name was mentioned? [[Yes.]] All right. But first, Senator Szejnfeld came forward about the corrigendum. Yes? [[Mr. Marshal...]] But what I'm asking is, did Senator Szejnfeld come forward? Yes? [[Voice in the room: corrected...]] That's your corrigendum first, because you're the first... [[I volunteered, but you're welcome...]] No, Senator, you volunteered first, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u263	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will speak as briefly as possible and try not to mention the names of the senators who use this institution to make 25 minutes out of their five or 10 minutes. I regret to say that those who are the most active in this discussion, I am sorry, I have spoken calmly and culturally, but as it is repeated over and over again, for the third time the same thesis has to be said clearly. They have no idea what they're talking about. Mixing institutions of any advice with an institution of individual and formal interpretation is embarrassing. After all, these rules clearly indicate to whom they are entitled, under which conditions they are entitled, to whom they are allowed and to whom they are not. That's not enough, you still have to pay for it, so the money you're pointing out here, just stick it between the fairy tales. If you're criticizing something, take a look, damn it, into the rules. It's a amending act! To know what he's talking about, you have to check the mother's bill, there are procedures, there are certain bodies that another senator was talking about. If someone has a case connected, for example. with a charge for perpetual use, that does not mean that he will be able to send his application to any authority or to a hundred in parallel. And it's supposed to block the procedure! How does someone have a case concerning, for example, community or cooperative, this is not a public-law issue and this issue will not be able to be interpreted individually. If someone is talking about some senators who want to fasten the award, it's probably those who criticize it in the champ without any constructive approach to prove themselves before their electorate or their president and show that there is no agreement to the proposal if it is not by its own club, but by someone else's club. Totality This is a concept that was coined a few years ago. And actually, you guys are total. It's totally negative for any proposal. If these proposals, Mr... I'm not gonna name it so you don't use it to correct it. If someone thinks that these proposals are good, only unfinished, as was the case in criticism, then please make your amendments. And if you don't make any corrections, that means you're totally denying it. That's it, period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u264	Thank you, Senator. The corrigendum is... [[There's one more thing about this ignorance about the fact that 30 days...]] But, Senator... [[It's 30 days now.]] ...this isn't polemics... [[This has been in force for 10 years in very difficult cases and is valid for 30 days! Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Frost is making a correction. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u265	A total of 2 corrections, to Senator Dowhan's statement and to the senator's statement... [[Voice from the room: But you weren't mentioned...]] [[One. They're three minutes away. Divide them into two parts.]] One, but on two points. First question, Senator Dowhan. I didn't say that KAS controls are pointy, I just said that there are fewer of them and that they are more, so to speak, precisely directed. It even shows statistics. Second corrigendum to Senator Dowhan's statement. You're always talking about some 30 taxes we've introduced. I know about one tax. If you're able to exchange these 30 taxes, just replace them. You've said that a few times before, on various occasions. We introduced one tax, it was a bank tax. And the hysteria was the Civic Platform... We have introduced solutions that are applied in many developed countries. London City, Frankfurt, Germany, Italy has a bank tax. It was said that there was no way of knowing how banking services would go... It is simply about sharing the gigantic profits that financial institutions, using increasingly sophisticated financial instruments, achieve. And as for Senator Szejnfeld's statement, neither I nor Senator Czerwiński were in any housing communities. It's not like it's a public obligation. And here you set an example of some housing communities, criticizing me or Senator Czerwinski. As long as I agree with this, about this help, that this is an amendment... If we introduce an interpretation for citizens... Well, that's a new solution. Yes, Senator? There is no such thing in the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u266	And please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not gonna straighten anything out. I wanted you to produce longer, Mr. Senator Szejnfeld... And as for totality, you've been introducing yourselves. I don't know, are you guys walking away from patterns? And to be serious, I'm gonna say yes. I've been trying to give you examples and definitions. Type: competent authority of the State organizational unit What you have written here and what you support. I understand that the level of emotion presented by you is that you just understood what you wrote here. Or what you've been told and what you support. But that doesn't prove you well. Neither the emotions nor the late understanding of it. I presented clear definitions, numbers, not what you were trying to tell your listeners here. No cooperative...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u268	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Robert Dowhan, in corrigendum mode. I'm just asking for a corrigendum, not polemics. The previous two votes were polemics, not corrigendums. I ask you to correct the misunderstood statement. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u269	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll try very quickly. I'm talking about taxes or fees. And that's the nickname. I spoke at the previous Senate meeting. If Senator Frost had given some attention and noted, perhaps he would have remembered... Okay, well, maybe just for a little while... I have just here written down what taxes or charges you should pay. Bank tax. You admitted it yourself, but you're wrong if you say it's the banks who pay. No, that's what we pay. Those who take loans. I'm on it, I know it. And I know how the loans have changed over the last few years. [[I think it just fell...]] If you go to the bank after the loan, then you'll find out who's actually paying that tax. Next: commercial tax. You wanted to introduce it, but the European Union blocked it. It will probably be introduced on January 1st. And again, if you think it's gonna be networks and supermarkets paying... I'm sure you'll find that this tax will be paid by Polish farmers, Polish producers who will have to... Solidarity Danina. Well, it's called tribute, fee or tax. It's 4%. ? It's 4%. The fuel issue fee. We have one of the most expensive fuels. 4.77 zł Last time I refueled gas oil at Orlen station at relatively low oil barrel prices and relatively low dollar rates, which came below 3.75 zł. The fuel was cheaper when the dollar was 4.20 PLN. Gallery tax, initially from shopping galleries and office buildings, then from any commercial property, including even from buildings with apartments for rent; BDO registration fee; recycling fee, increase and extension of the scope of the recycling fee; dock bottom fee; water levy; taxation of financial contributions to companies and income from inherited assets or received as a donation that can no longer be cushioned; quality fee for the technical examination of the vehicle; VAT increase to many food products, including health food; maintenance of higher VAT rates that could already be reduced But you continue to keep them, although many countries in the COVID era have reduced them, and a great deal; an increase in excise duty by 10% on alcohols, an increase on tobacco products, on e-cigarettes; an increase in export charges for non-segregated garbage; a freezing of PIT thresholds; liquidation of linear PIT for entrepreneurs whose annual income exceeds PLN 1 million; a reduction to zero of the amount free of tax in case of high earnings; the deprivation of many groups of taxpayers' ability to deduct 50% of the cost of income; the elimination of the possibility of reducing operating revenues by capital revenues; the reduction of the possibility to include in the tax costs of expenditure on services provided by related parties, interest, fees, bonuses or commissions on loans as well as on trade marks or licences; the strengthening of the way in which wind farms are taxed; the tightening of excise duties on cars imported abroad; the increase of fuel charges; the tax on VOD services or on pay TV. Aren't these taxes? These aren't charges? Aren't these tributes? You've counted, Mr. Senator, how many of these are there? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u270	Thank you, Senator. I hope this correction is over. [[I'm still...]] [[There are no more corrections!]] [[No! No!]] Mr. Senator, well... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator! [[I can correct that, right? If you were talking to me, then...]] [[But what's he got to straighten out?]] No, not at all. I'm addressing all senators: don't use names, because we're not gonna end up here. I'm asking you to do this and I'm appealing. There you go, Senator, if you must... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u271	I'll try very briefly. And what do wind farms and the fees that there... tighten up the rules on wind farms in general with the introduction of new taxes? That's first of all. Secondly, in terms of revenue costs, we are among others. They brought them back for artists, because in the days of the Civic Platform they were limited. That's by the way, because you're also... As far as VAT is concerned, we have maintained the VAT rates that he has raised... I don't know if you were a senator back then... I've explained it to you several times. Some kind of matrix has changed, some things have stood up to VAT, and some things have gone down, but your idea of introducing 3x15 would mean that if we introduced it and there was one rate, then VAT would go up by almost 100%. taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u272	Thank you, Senator. [[Voice from the room: Still sugar tax, he forgot about it...]] Mr. Senator! [[It's not a tax, Senator.]] Okay... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. [[That's something you can't keep up with.]] I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Jacek Bury and Senator Adam Szejnfeld. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u273	Mr. Marshal, no. I will only say for the last time to the protocol that I am here as a representative of one of the opinion providers, not as a representative of the government, because there is no government position on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Of course, you're a representative of the Ministry...]] [[The government's all for it.]] [[Voice from the hall: The government is in favour.]] There's a few... There are positions of several resorts. As far as I know, everyone's critical. You're welcome to read... [[You have to be more specific.]] [[Voice from the room: Clearer!]] I'm so sorry. As far as I'm concerned... There are several positions of several resorts, and as far as I know, each one is critical. So it seems to me that such a conclusion here is not fully justified. Thank you. [[This is the logic of the Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u274	The Minister answered this question clearly enough. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u275	As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Senator Szejnfeld has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Thank you very much. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u276	High Izbo! There's a few messages. The first is for tonight. 15 minutes after your Marshal's announcement of a break... [[As usual.]] ...there will be a meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted in the second reading for the draft resolution on commemorating the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's possessor, Senate prints No. 259 and 259 S. That'll be 15 minutes after the adjournment. [[Where?]] [[Room 176.]] In Rooms 176 and 179, both committees. 45 minutes after the announcement of the break, a meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation will be held on the examination of the proposals submitted in the second reading to the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, Senate prints No 232 and 232 S. The two meetings will be held in Rooms 176 and 179. Messages on tomorrow's meetings. The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Communications on the examination of requests submitted at second reading to the draft act on the repeal of the Act on the Council of National Media, Senate Prints No 152 and 152 S, will take place tomorrow at 8.15 in Rooms 176 and 179. Meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the draft law amending the Local Government Act and certain other laws, Senate prints No 216 and 216 S The meeting will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. also in rooms 176 and 179. The third meeting is a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of requests submitted at second reading to the draft law amending the Act on informing and consulting employees, Senate prints No 177 and 177 S, will take place tomorrow at 8.45 also in Rooms 176 and 179. Last message. The Science, Education and Sport Committee will be held in room 182 tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. There are two points on the agenda. It is about changing the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow and the University of Arts in Poznań. Tomorrow at 8:30, room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-02-senat-18-5.u277	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:15 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 19]]
