ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I open the 11th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] The list of speakers in the Senate sitting room will be led by Senator Victor Durlak. In Room 217, the list of speakers will be led by Senator Mariusz Gromko. At the same time, I ask Senator Jerzy Wisła to perform the duties of Senator Secretary in Room 182. Mr. Secretary, please take your designated seats. Dear Senators, in view of the continuing epidemic, after obtaining the approval of the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula: the discussions will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication. Senators meeting in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182, please sign up for questions and to speak in the discussion with the Senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Viktor Durlak, in room 217, Senator Mariusz Gromko, and in room 182, Senator Jerzy Wcisła. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPads within the Senate building. I am making sure that all States in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If any of your senators fail to join the session before blocking the session in the application or losing the connection, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote, which aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that the opening of the vote is so-called. Webex polling causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." Then, after the vote has been given, it is necessary to press the button two times: "Transmit" or "Submit" in the upper right-hand voting window and in response to the question of confirmation. I therefore ask for a vote. I don't see that remote screen... I can see that. Another person voting remotely is in the process of voting. Please check whether she double-clicked the pass button or the Submit button. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, the number of senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] Those who vote remotely, please check whether their voice has been sent, because even if there is one squeeze missing, the system asks again and checks, hence the moment of waiting for the final number to be given. So 98 senators took part in the vote. High Izbo, I inform you that on 19 March 2020, the Minister of Finance passed to the Senate an evaluation of the functioning of the arrangements provided for in the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Banking Law and certain other laws (Journal of Laws No. 1864, late. zm.). The document is contained in print No 92. It was addressed to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. At its meeting on 26 May 2020, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took note of the document and informed me. I inform you that at its eleventh meeting on 7 and 14 May 2020, the Sejm rejected the Senate resolution rejecting the Act on special rules for the conduct of the general elections to the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020; rejected all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws; adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending certain acts concerning the proliferation of SARS-CoV-2 virus; adopted one Senate amendment to the Act amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the seventh and eighth meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the ninth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been laid out in the senator's benches. I propose that point 2 and point 10 be considered, even though the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and consider it as item 14 of the agenda; information from the Minister of Interior and Administration on arrests by the police during demonstrations during the pandemic period with particular regard to detentions on 16 May, including the detention of Senator Jack Bure and consider it as item 15 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Marshal... Mr. Marshal Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to obtain assurance, that is, really, to confirm what we discussed at the meeting of the bureau and the Seniors' Convention, that the vote on electoral law will take place immediately after consideration of this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Wait a minute, we're getting to that message right now. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eleventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the vote on the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Mr Marshal, will take place immediately after consideration of this point. If proposals of a legislative nature are not submitted to point two, the vote on this matter will be held immediately after consideration. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. It's all clear. Dear Senators, I inform you that after the Senate committees have prepared a report on the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principles of equality in respect of the law, the agenda may be supplemented by a point on the second reading of this draft. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I would like to inform you that Vice-Marshal Marek Pęk has resigned from his duties as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The request for the dismissal of Vice-Marshal Mark Pęk from the office of chairman of this committee was welcomed by the Seniors' Convention. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print No 128. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Technical question: from the place or from the platform? As you wish, Senator. The Seym has been open for some time now, so I think... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But she's still away from us. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 19 May 2020, Mr Marshal Marshal of the Senate received a request from Senator Mark Pęk in connection with his appointment as Vice-Marshal of the Senate, a request for his resignation as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Senate Marshal referred the matter to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, which prepared a draft resolution at its meeting on 26 May 2020. Let me read this project, it's very short. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Marek Pęka from his role as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? If not, we are voting on the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 95 votes against, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Mr Marek Pęk, Vice-Marshal. Proceed to point two. I welcome our guests: PKW president, Judge Sylvester Marciniak, Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, and head of the National Election Office, Minister Magdalena Pietrzak. We proceed to the second agenda: a law on special rules for the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. The text of the Act is contained in print No 118 and the report of the Commission In print No 118A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights of the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a report to the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The law, which is the subject of our deliberations at the moment, has previously been the subject of a very intense discussion of the 3 joint committees. We met three times, discussed the details of this law, asked numerous questions to experts, representatives of the State Election Commission and government representatives. This is the second election law, which we are dealing with very intensively, very soon. And if there were so many reservations in relation to this previous law, called the envelope law, And they were such fundamental reservations. In the present law, it has received a generally positive opinion among the members of the committee, at least on the direction in which it is going, i.e. on the main principles which it envisages, namely that the elections will be correspondence for those citizens who wish to do so. The others will vote as before in the polls, throwing their vote in the ballot box. But of course the fact that this direction is correct does not mean that all the provisions of this law are correct, are precise, there is no doubt. On the contrary, during these three meetings of the same questions that were asked, and the conclusions that were presented, from the amendments that were effectively presented, and there is a total of about 40 of them, it resulted that it was really possible to have a lot of reservations about this law. The votes held at the last meeting of these three committees also showed that in many cases I think mostly, I didn't count, but I guess mostly Either we reached unanimity in the vote in favour of the amendments, or there were very few votes against, or there were very few abstentions. That means that this bill has not been worked properly in the Seym. I have to tell you this because the Senate But also the committees that I represent here met with the accusation that he was dragging the case out of some kind of obstruction. I can tell you this: this bill passed through the Sejm within 10 hours. If three, four, five days were worked in the Seym, we could certainly reduce the working time by 7, 8, 9 days. Anyway, it would have been more days than she would have spent in the Seym. The law that came to us required very, very thorough analysis, many arrangements, arrangements, etc. That's the first line. The second point that the members of the committee drew attention to during the proceedings and which, as if it were weighing on these proceedings, was the lack of publication of a resolution of the State Election Commission. The problem immediately arose, which was very intensely addressed at committee meetings. It was also a very noisy problem in the media. Namely: what is the constitutional basis of our work and this law? Because the case that happened, I mean. elections that were, but did not take place, this is a case that the constitution does not know. There is no relevant article for this, no simple solution can be introduced, and therefore a field for interpretation is being opened. There is scope for interpretation and, of course, constitutionalists are involved in all this, the State Election Commission is taking part, but at the end the decision must be made by politicians, in this case the senators. Let me remind you that the resolution of the State Election Commission referred to two provisions in the electoral code. The first is that when only one candidate leaves and the others withdraws, the election does not take place. The other says that when all candidates withdraw when they're gone, when maybe they don't come forward, the election doesn't take place either. And in both cases, the electoral code says what happens next. Namely the Marshal of the Sejm within 14 days sets the election date, no later than 60 days from that moment. And this case was not included in the Constitution, nor in the electoral code. The State Election Commission interpreted it in its resolution and concluded that it was not identical, but very close to a case in which candidates did not come forward. I stress: not the same is obvious because the candidates were But very close. So the committee approached the case from the voter's point of view, said: the voter had no one to vote for. He wouldn't have anyone to vote for if they hadn't volunteered, and he didn't have anyone to vote for on Sunday, May 10th. And the committee concluded that if so, you can go in code mode: the marshal sets a deadline within 14 days and within 60 days there are elections. It has to be said that it was an interpretation that gained many followers, but there was one sin over it. Namely, she only hung on the website of the State Election Commission, but was not published. And we in the Senate really... There were always questions here at the committee meeting, whether we are doing the right thing at all, that we are working on this case, because we basically have no reason to do so. And we constantly demanded publication. I'm not gonna get divorced about this anymore. It was wrong to wait so long. It is a good thing that, at the end of our debate, this publication has finally taken place today and the vote that will be held at the end of our debate will be based on some basis. Of course, that wasn't the only basis. One reason for extending these work was also the constitutionalists' doubts and questions which were therefore asked. Such a fundamental question was asked by Marshal Kaminski and Marshal Morawska-Staneck, namely whether it is possible to rely on this basis, on the resolution of the State Election Commission, or whether it is possible to extricate some other solution from the Constitution. And that's what we've been given. I am talking about this, although the state, especially the members of the committee, is of course very well known, but when it comes to public opinion, about the media, this matter was, as it is popularly said, very bleak and sometimes very far-reaching conclusions were made. These questions naturally extended the work by a few days. However, I would like to stress: I also believe as rapporteur and vice-president of the Legislative Commission that the Senate should work in this way. He must not go on to the table on very important charges. We've received these opinions. I would like to say that these opinions were varied. There was an opinion that made it clear that it is possible that the resolution of the PKW opens the way and can be based on it... Of course, it is also possible on a different basis, on the basis of the constitution, to wait until the end of the term of office of the President-in-Office, but it is also possible on this basis. Another opinion stated that going to the State Election Commission was in any event uncontested by the Constitution. It's not in the constitution, but it's undeniable. There was also an opinion in which it was argued that this was not the correct solution. So we had to make a decision. And I can say that as a result of all this, the amendment on this issue has been withdrawn by the applicants. They considered that, in this situation, if the option of the State Election Commission is acceptable, there is no reason to postpone the elections. The amendments that have been tabled can be divided into 2 groups. One group were general amendments, which concerned the electoral procedure itself, very important issues for the electoral procedure, and the other group were important amendments, important for certain groups, environments. As regards this first issue, namely the fundamental amendments, which are important for all, relating to the procedure, they were primarily concerned with the issue of the electoral calendar. Let me remind you that in the bill this electoral calendar, i.e. the election date and the electoral calendar, sets the marshal or your Marshal of the Sejm after consulting the State Election Commission. And at this point I have to say that when it comes to mood or working spirit, on the one hand, he was undoubtedly constructive. All the senators who took part in the committee's work were active, not only asked questions and explained, but also made various kinds of proposals. On the other hand, it must also be said that there was a certain spirit of suspicion and fear that certain solutions in this law may be used in an unworthy, inappropriate way. It is well known that there is still a majority of the Parliament in this matter that will decide the shape of this law, the Marshal himself who makes decisions, and the government has a lot to say here. In this law, a certain part of the authority was also assigned to the Minister for Health as regards the electoral procedure. The law in the Sejm, as I said, passed within 10 hours, all the opposition amendments were rejected, well, maybe one was accepted. And it all created such a climate that certain provisions of this law in some other situation might not raise such doubts, but in the one we have, in this certain pre-election tension and in the face of various actions, the statements of the politicians of the ruling camp... all this led to a more cautious approach to many records. And that calendar I started with... The calendar, as you know, includes some rather formal activities, such as the appointment of a committee, such as the division of antenna time, etc., etc., but the essential part of this calendar is the time devoted to registering the election committee and registering the candidate. And that bill didn't say anything about it. And I would like to remind you that the electoral code when the presidential elections are held in normal mode, provides for a fairly precise calendar, i.e. The marshal, although he sets the election date itself, must stick to this calendar, which is in the bill, so per analogy to some extent it should be so also here. Unfortunately, this was not the case, the Marshal of the Sejm according to the law can do anything, not only set a date, which is its prerogative, but also set this calendar in an absolutely arbitrary manner. Yes, after consulting the State Election Commission, but this is just an opinion. And, for example, The time to collect signatures can determine extremely short, practically dammed. And yet the principle here is that these are new elections, with some derogation from that. The derogation is that committees which promote the same candidates do not need to collect signatures, but the way for new committees is open. And I want to be clear: not only for this committee that we all know about, but also for anyone else who might want to get into a fight. Therefore, leaving him too short time to collect signatures, especially now that we still have the epidemic state, when constantly collecting these signatures is not as normal as it was, would actually only mean a sham solution, a sham option. That's why we proposed This is one of the most important amendments First of all, for this calendar decision to be made by the Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the State Election Commission, not after consulting it, and secondly for at least 10 days to be provided for two activities: registration of the electoral committee and registration of the candidate. The second very important amendment concerned the role of the Minister of Health, which was defined in this law in a special way. Namely, it is noted that the Minister of Health 7 days before the elections can introduce in practically any area the obligation of correspondence for all. So there would be an envelope bill like it was, just, let's say, in some area. What argument? I mean, there could be an outbreak, and that might make it necessary. It was very widely discussed at the committee's meeting whether to propose the removal of this power at all, to leave the power to increase prudential rigour in such an area, or... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Twenty... Twenty. No, sir... Senator, listen to me, you're gonna get it right. Yeah, four more minutes... Yes... [[Speech in the background of the recording]] I'm not just talking to you, Mr. Senator Skurkiewicz and Mr. Senator Mammothov. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. The amendment to which the committee has decided definitively is that such a decision may be taken, but not by the Minister, but by the State Election Commission by a resolution, of course, at the request of the Minister, not spontaneously, the Minister must justify it and make such a request. Such a decision may be taken and need not be taken. The next amendment concerns correspondence elections. It actually restores the code solution. The point is that receipt of the electoral package should be signed by the recipient. That bill didn't foresee it. The next major amendment is the proposal to increase, extend antenna time, free TV and radio broadcasts. It is mainly related to the fact that unfortunately this campaign cannot be fought with a full, so to speak, with momentum, as usual, with great meetings, rallies, etc., etc. So we should give more time to present ourselves, our programs, our intentions in the media. Of course, for all candidates this is the same solution, equal. The next amendment concerns an increase in the minimum number of members of the Regional Election Commissions. The bill provided for three members. In principle, we propose five members, taking into account the intensity of work that these regional committees are waiting for. Finally, there is a proposal to increase the spending limit for so-called. a new electoral committee. This new committee, the one that was to be formed only now, after the adoption of this law, was to have 50% the standard amount available to other committees. Of course, these other committees have already released some. However, 50% the committee was too small an indicator, hence the proposal to raise to 75%. These are the most important amendments, amendments which concern the electoral procedure itself and which work for honest elections, fair elections, equal elections. Other amendments concern individual groups. Disabled. We paid particular attention to this because these solutions for the disabled were incomplete. It is about the possibility of using the overlays in the Braille alphabet, and it is also about the way in which the envelopes are delivered and received if they wish to take part in the elections in correspondence form. We have also clarified the same with regard to those in quarantine. And abroad. There have been a lot of different proposals and proposals in this case, including a lot of reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which shows once again that this law was not as procededed as it should have been at the Seym level. These amendments were also accepted. The main point is that these voters, Poles abroad, simply managed to take part in these elections if they had to take place in correspondence. And finally self-government. Local governments are generally obliged to organise these elections from a technical point of view, so to speak. And in these elections they will have to, we will all have to bear much higher costs than in the case of elections, let's call it normal, standard. In order to ensure that there is no doubt, this provision in this law is so designed that it states that the costs which the local authorities will bear in this case, including those related to the protection of the regional committees, trust unions, etc., etc., will be refinanced, will be treated as outsourced tasks and will thus be refinanced. Mr. Senator... I'm almost done. In conclusion, I would say that there are a lot of these amendments, but if they are adopted by the Senate and, even more importantly, by the Sejm, we will have a guarantee... Of course, as always, there will remain some gaps, but in general we will have a guarantee that these elections will not raise doubts. In conclusion, I can only address you First of all to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Law and Justice, but also to the Members of the Law and Justice To take seriously what the committees are proposing and what will ultimately be voted on. The point is that this choice that we make in a rather tense atmosphere is fair. As I said, it all takes place in an atmosphere of a different kind of suspicion, so the point is to dispel these suspicions, and they can only be disbanded if the elections are fair, fair, universal and equal for all candidates. It's the voters' votes, not any tricks and manipulations, to decide who's gonna be president. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Marshal Mark Pęk, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal, tabled by me and by Senator Krzysztof Słoń, is really only about one amendment, an amendment that is very important in substance, which we thought should be supported by the entire Senate. This is an amendment, which is actually based on a precise determination of how Poland's Post will be financed, which will take part in the electoral process. As the majority rapporteur, Senator Borowski, has said, these elections impose obligations on different authorities of the state, different authorities, certain specific, special, completely unprecedented in other elections. Undoubtedly, the Polish Post Office belongs to these institutions. In fact, the purpose of this amendment is to determine precisely, first, from what means, from which parts of the budget, Poczta Polska, i.e. the operator designated within the meaning of the law, will be rewarded and, second, what basis of calculation will be due to the operator of the designated funds. I was surprised to hear the discussion on this amendment. I don't want to heat up my emotions at this point, because I, and my colleagues from Law and Justice, care very much for us to vote on this bill today, Poles are waiting for election law, Poles want to vote So all I'm going to say is that it looked a little bit like you were trying to do something strange to get back at the Polish Post Office or you were kind of offended by it. The Polish Post is not guilty of any of these circumstances, which are connected with the pandemic. Nor is she guilty of the fact that the elections have not been held. The mail has to be done. Once again, I would like to stress that. The very important tasks involved in making the elections, so once again I urge you to abandon demagogy here, give up your emotions, and think calmly about whether we should all support this substantive amendment. I would like to remind you that the representatives of the trade union of posters asked for this very much, so we would come here to meet a specific environment, which I stress once again. It has a huge challenge and a lot of work to do in making elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Nobody signed up for questions. The bill was introduced by Members. Would any of the guests like to speak on the bill under consideration? The Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u10	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I would like to say that in the course of the legislative work, the Ombudsman's Office presented its opinion on the contested law. Many of the proposed amendments have been taken into account in the legislative work, in particular those on the rights of persons with disabilities, those on clearer and more precise deadlines or on issues relating to the financing of electoral campaigns or voting abroad. I would like to stress that this is a special moment and a special debate, because we are discussing changes in electoral law in circumstances that, although they are all known, are worth it, I think Okay, let's get this straightened out and presented. First of all, there was no presidential election scheduled for May 10th. This is the first such fact since 1989. Secondly, in the previous presidential elections, 10 electoral committees were registered. Moreover, there is still a state of epidemic in Poland, and yet since the very beginning of the epidemic or epidemic, a state of emergency has not been declared, which would solve, I think, a lot of constitutional problems. Finally, another issue: changes in electoral law, including those which are the subject of the House's work, are being made with a violation of the basic constitutional principle, as they should not be introduced later than 6 months before the election date. Besides, if we look at the work of the Sejm, we will see that the debate in the Sejm was significantly limited, and we could really see if we could discuss it only at the stage of the Senate work. During my work on both the previous law and the present law, I asked the OSCE to present its opinion. I am pleased that the OSCE has delivered an opinion and that some recommendations have been taken into account. However, I would like to stress that my role as spokesperson is to uphold civil rights and freedoms. Among these rights are those set out in Article. 62 constitutions, i.e. active and passive electoral law. The Ombudsman should stand up for those who are voters as well as those who want, perhaps, to take advantage of the passive electoral right as candidates in elections. We know the election didn't take place on May 10th. This has been decided by the State Election Commission and this means that the new presidential elections are not overtime, they are not a second stage, but, in the light of the Constitution, they are a whole new election, and if so, they must meet the constitutional criteria. I am very pleased that the role of the State Election Commission has been restored because this ensures that these elections can be fair. The decision on the hybrid nature of elections may also allow, if all health standards are respected, a proper balance of different constitutional values. However, the question arises as to whether elections will meet the constitutional standard of passive electoral law And that's what I'd like to focus on first of all. Dear Marshal, honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the basic electoral principle is the principle of equality in relation to passive electoral rights. In this case, the Constitution does not provide for any preferences, no affirmative actions or other solutions that would promote certain candidates. Since the announcement of elections, in principle, all citizens who have been over thirty-five years of age have been equal, of course, on condition that they have full public rights. Any one of them can carry a proverbial bug in his backpack and apply as a candidate in the election. Equality in the exercise of passive electoral rights refers to different electoral phases: registration of electoral committees, collection of signatures under the names of individual candidates, financing of the electoral campaign or finally campaigning, including access to public media. However, one of the basic principles of this law is the introduction of inequality between candidates. The current electoral committees shall be registered as of the date of entry into force of the Act and the new committees shall only have the opportunity to do so. That's one thing. Secondly, due to the particular mode of organising elections, in accordance with Article. 129 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 Constitutions... This will be an accelerated mode, because they are organized, you can say, for the second time, and therefore the time to carry out all activities will be significantly shortened. I am of the opinion that the timing of the various activities in the electoral process should be strictly legal and not left to the Marshal of the Sejm. And I welcome in this regard the amendments that have been voted by the joint committees because they give a sense of stability and predictability. However, the chances of new candidates are much smaller, they have less time to register their own committees, to collect signatures, to raise funds. Of course, I am aware that in the light of these temporary limitations, some candidates will be able to cope. Even if they join this election in the presidential election later, they will probably be able, due to the fact that they have organizational structures, to go through the whole process accordingly But I would like to stress that the constitution is not only for the best organized, for those who have certain structures. I would stress that no person would decide to run for office, e.g. In a few days, it should not be treated worse than all those candidates who have already been registered. For what reasons should her situation be worse, since it will be a new election, since it will be a whole new election in the light of the Constitution? After all, any senator could make a decision. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, he will be a candidate in the presidential election. Why should he be treated worse than any of those 10 candidates who have already been registered, who already have their election committees? Of course, I am aware that such a decision has been taken, not another political decision, but if the legislator decides to do so, he should think of the so-called one. Handicap. It's kind of like golf, it's a system that allows less experienced players to compete with professionals in a way that they have comparable odds in the game. In this context, the role of the legislator is to equalise opportunities, to seek changes to the law that will improve the situation of these new candidates. In this context, I am positively reading the amendment which implies using the ePUAP system to register support for candidates, because this is actually such a handicap But in my opinion it is a drop, not much in the face of the original inequality that the law introduces. 'Cause even if a handicap like this is introduced, it's not gonna end. it's a fundamental problem, which is this initial inequality of candidates, it will still exist. We can easily imagine a situation in which people who could not run in elections, for example. within these few, maybe even 10 days, they have not been able to collect enough signatures, they will try to undermine the election before the Supreme Court. And they will have very strong arguments in their hands, and it will be difficult for the Supreme Court to deny them the truth that they actually were. treated unevenly with respect to those candidates who have been registered. Perhaps it will happen that instead of speeding things up... it will be necessary to hold the presidential elections again in the fall. This may not be the case, perhaps the situation in Poland will be stabilized as a result of the President's election with this strong supervision, the participation of the State Election Commission. But my role as ombudsman is to warn you that choosing to do this procedure is playing with fire. And I'm not the only one who's doing it. There are many constitutionalists who have presented such opinions. Perhaps as constitutionalists, we are like dinosaurs that resemble, first, the constitution. Perhaps, in the face of a political agreement emerging that this should be the way it is done, I will not be understood by you. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this is the day when the letter of current politics can prevail over the letter of law. The Constitution. As Prof. Marcin Matczak said, in the presidential election, the most important is not the one to be elected, but the most important thing is that citizens can fully exercise their electoral rights, also in the field of passive electoral rights and also in the context of respect for all rights which are linked to this passive electoral right. I would like to stress that any of you in this Chamber can be a presidential candidate in 2, 3, 4 days, and then you will be in a much worse legal and factual situation than those candidates who have been registered so far. It is my duty to draw your attention to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Since there are no such questions, I'm opening a discussion. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of the senators, who have participated remotely in the meeting. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Does Judge Marciniak want to... No, thank you. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President of the State Election Commission. Mr Ombudsperson! Well, it's a shame there's no government representative here. Yes, Mr. Marshal? Is there a government representative? I don't think so. And this is a very important bill. I must regret that the Senate took this law very seriously and... Mr. Prime Minister's decision to publish the resolution of the State Election Commission on 10 May took 21 days, i.e. the signature which decided to publish the resolution of the PKW... 21 days. During this time we still heard the pagans of the Senate: The Senate has not yet considered what the Senate is waiting for. Today is the 19th day since this bill entered the Senate. How could the Senate consider this law and vote, end the procedure when there was no publication of the resolution of the State Election Commission, which determined what happened to those elections, whether they were held or not? This publication was and is the basis for the Senate's re-election in the elections of the President of the Republic. So we waited 21 days for the Prime Minister's signature. The Senate has been proceding for 19 days and will probably pass this bill today. Proceding The committee has met many times, and we have received many legal opinions, and we have discussed these legal opinions. Of course, this bill is not an easy act, because for the first time we were in such a situation that the President's elections did not take place and at the same time took place. This interpretation of the State Election Commission gave and gives us the opportunity to pass this law. Not only to pass, but in principle also to process. Because how can you proceed with a new electoral order when there is an old electoral order? I am pleased that this matter only took 21 days for the Prime Minister and you did not follow in the footsteps of Prime Minister Szydło, who published the judgment of the Constitutional Court when it could no longer be implemented. So this is the first thing. The next one I want to draw attention to is some blackmail we've heard: you're going to delay, you're going to be proceding for a long time, and your candidate will have a shorter period to collect signatures. This blackmail was from different directions... I mean, no, from different directions, but of course it was going from the current government majority to government media, government television... It is also a good thing that we did not give in to this blackmail and did not go in the direction in which the Seym procedures went. Because what I'm trying to say is that the Senator rapporteur made a mistake. Not 10 hours the Sejm was sitting on what I want to correct but 12 hours the Sejm was sitting on this bill before he passed it. Longer than that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we are already at the final stage of the debate on this law. Of course, the President's elections must be held, and the elections must be held in such a way that the President's role can be taken over by the new President. We have discussed and heard different opinions, which will happen if the term of office passes, but regardless of these opinions such a situation would not be good, so it is good that this bill will come in at such a time that we will not have to wonder who will serve as President or as President, because the President will be elected. But it was important that we were in our role to explain all the misconceptions and all the question marks. Because it is also important that the President's position is very strong and that the election of the new President should not be questioned if he was questioned even in a smallest passage. This, of course, is what Poland's interests require. This law is accompanied by an atmosphere of concern as to whether all the principles that concern the 5-adjective elections will be preserved. The first point for me is that, in fact, these elections, when it comes to candidates, will not be equal and thus equal. Because the new elections should be a new electoral procedure from start to finish. Here we create a hybrid in which those who decided to take off on May 10 receive significant heads. I mean, their signatures are recognized, their money is bigger, because those who are now running again will get a 50% financial limit. smaller. This is a problem of unequal treatment of candidates. I hope this isn't a precedent. And we're not talking about any acquired rights here. What are the acquired rights? Then why don't we go further: sitting down. And before the next election, you could say that we, the senators, have rights acquired, too. Why are we running, why are we collecting signatures? Well, because we have some rights acquired... Of course, I'm bringing this to a psychic situation. But after all, we can use the same arguments... Although I'm not trying to get anybody to do it. And absolutely, if anyone offered me this, I would say, sir, go someplace else, ask your lawyer what it means to have acquired rights and whether they can be used in such a situation as elections. The bill was largely amended in the Senate. It was largely improved. I'm sure it's important that the role of the State Election Commission has been restored. The State Election Commission, which was created to organise elections, oversee the elections. There's a situation that's important. Well, we'll see if the PiS decides to support an amendment that removes the Minister of Government, the Minister of Health, from pointing out where elections should only be conducted in correspondence. Well, there's a fear that in a big city, in one of the five big cities, these choices need to be made by mail. There is therefore an amendment which states that the State Election Commission shall decide this at the request of the Minister of Health. And since the proposal This must also be the justification for the proposal. It's important. Finally, the law and justice propose a minority proposal. What is behind this minority proposal? Under this request of minorities, this is to accept the legal issue of illegal 69 million PLN for useless electoral packages. That's what's underneath that conclusion. That is why we cannot accept this request from the minority. I will, of course, vote against him. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, for 20 days, the Senate has been an object of shoals, pressures and threats to mention only words that we will be chased by all available means. Meanwhile, we carried out our duties as best as we could. The obligation to amend the special law on the election of the head of state again, as it was a month earlier. And like a month earlier, I am convinced that we have fulfilled these duties properly. The meetings proved that it was the time needed for the three Senate committees, which, 20 days ago, passed the 20th day since the Sejm came to us to work on it. I'm sure today or tomorrow, in the vote, we'll fix the chaos. In order not to say: the mess of the Sejm, which in a hasty vote introduced into such an important law the Sejm. There are five main issues that I believe we have fixed. Firstly, we are largely restoring the equality and universality of these elections. We made it easier. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen after the vote. The exercise of their voting rights disabled, Poles abroad, people in quarantine who are close to 100,000, and all Poles, extending voting hours or perhaps, if necessary, increasing the number of mailboxes to which you will be able to post in correspondence mode. Secondly, we assure you that in the process of voting in correspondence, the person who has chosen to vote will actually vote, this citizen and not someone else. Well, that guarantees an amendment that allows this type of vote after receiving a receipt package, which does not allow, for example. to put the electoral package into the fence on the property. Thirdly, we are eliminating the hope that effectively the danger that politicians will have a major influence on elections. It is about the Minister of Health, who not only has an interest as a governing politician in ensuring that a certain candidate wins, but also has personal very far-reaching legal interests in order to extend the current arrangement of power. But we also reduce, according to common sense, extended by the Sejm beyond the constitutional powers of another politician, the Marshal of the Sejm. Fourthly, we are increasing the participation of local governments and restoring the leading role of the State Election Commission in the electoral process. This is absolutely crucial so that we can talk about fair and impartial elections. Self-governments and State Election Commission or actually State Election Commission assisted by local authorities Not Minister Sasin, as it was before, or Minister Szumowski of Marshal Witek, as it was expected by the Sejm today, will play a leading role in this process. Finally, fifthly, I am convinced that the High House will agree to my amendment aimed at also collecting signatures for support by the ePUAP platform. And here I must say that I respectfully accept the reservations of the National Election Office on this amendment, but I do not agree with them. You say it can't be done in fast mode. That's not true. Complementing the ePUAP platform, on the basis of the Regulation of the Minister for Digitisation, so that the electoral committee can collect voluntary declarations through the profiles of trusted voters who would like to support the candidate and then verify it by the National Election Office or by the State Election Commission is indeed technically very simple. Adding such functionality to ePUAP requires several hours of operation of several IT specialists. And with all due respect to you... I understand that this is an inconvenience, because it will be done for the first time. But With all due respect to your work comforts or reservations We want to facilitate life and make it possible to participate in the basic civic act, which is elections, mainly to Poles and Poles, i.e. citizens. I therefore hope that the High House will support this amendment. Finally, with a view to the end of the speech, I hope that the High Senate will not accept the minority's request to specially treat the Polish Post in this Act, guaranteeing it what is guaranteed, i.e. reimbursement of costs associated with the elections. After all, in this very complicated epidemiology and legal situation not only Posta Polska, but also local governments or e.g. Consuls abroad will have increased costs. And this special case of Polish Post in my opinion raises doubts that in this way the expenditure of Polish Post is compensated for previous, unheard-of elections. We already know that it is 69 million PLN in Polish Post expenditure alone Without printing costs, as the Polish Post Presidents in this House have told us, so in total these expenses are much higher. I am convinced that, in the name of being guilty of such great waste and violations of the law in previous elections, we cannot accept this amendment in the future. In conclusion, I would like to say that we, in accordance with our vows, have done our duty to the nation, have guarded the interests of the state, have done everything for the benefit of the people and have respected the Constitution, even though the annulment of previous elections or their failure to act has caused a situation in which there is no more For our House and for legislators in general Ideal solutions. The Ombudsman spoke about it, and I thank him for it. And to President Kaczyński and others who have threatened the Senate for the last 20 days, I would like to say that they should thank the High House for the work it has done during these 20 days. And the measure of the good intentions of the rulers will be whether our amendments will be accepted by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have to start with the basic issue. Constitutional institutions work through actions. The theory always says that not everything in the country should be controlled by one political centre. Even if for this reason it is positive that the Senate is an independent institution, but much more important is that the Senate serves the Republic well through actions. We prevented the elections on May 10 from taking place with the exclusion of a large part of the population, in violation of constitutional rights and in violation of the Polish political tradition. In fact, they would be under conditions of an actual emergency. Of course, various issues have contributed to this, including the pressure of public opinion and the position of local governments, but it is clear that if there were no independent Senate, we would be after elections grossly contrary to the constitution, excluding a large part of citizens, unworthy of the Polish political tradition. We've proven ourselves. Then came the decision of the State Election Commission, which we had accepted from the beginning in good faith, although we ordered expert reports and 2 of them confirmed that the PKW, in its interpretation of 10 May, had broken the constitutional impasse and opened the possibility of organising elections on a new basis. And again we acted in the public interest, so that these elections, the elections at the turn of June and July, could be spoken of as being in accordance with constitutional standards, were fair to have a personal voice to be competitive. Hence the amendments concerning the 10-day deadline for the meeting of signatures under new nominations and their submission, more free time on public television and radio, also in the part which concerns Poles abroad, the real participation of local authorities, and finally the power of PKW, not the administration. Only in semi-automatic countries does the government organize and oversee elections. I can give historical examples, but constitutional democracy from an authoritarian and semi-authoritarian country distinguishes the fact that in democracy government and government administration have no power over the electoral process. We have restored the power of the State Election Commission. Finally, we eliminate the risk of using the epidemic to exclude some of the voters. Therefore, the power of the State Election Commission in the situation! I hope that it will not happen, to knock, because no one would wish it to increase on any part of the Polish territory the epidemic. Responsibility now goes from us to the government majority. I must say that I have mixed feelings after the deliberations of the Legislative Committee, but I still hope, because, above all, these amendments, which have passed a very high number of votes, show that not only was there an agreement, but also the law had to be improved and everyone was aware of it. In the key to competitiveness and freedom of choice, you have abstained. I am as far away from the suspicious attitude towards politics as possible, and I hope that this means that in the Seym it is possible to support the position of the Senate and organize elections worthy of Polish tradition, based on fair competition. If it weren't, it wouldn't be our responsibility. But it is worth remembering that Poles are very strict Because of the historical memory and the aspirations of the young generation For those who are falsifying the rules and who do not agree to genuine competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, the next speaker is Senator Jerzy Wczyła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I speak not only as a senator, but perhaps even more as a citizen of a state who has not yet learned to live in democracy and has already faced the threat of losing it. As a citizen who represents the first democratic generation. A generation that immediately experiences the painful relevance of saying that democracy is not given once and for all and needs to be fought for every day. High Senate, on 13 December 2015 in Elbląg, near the Memorial of the Victims of December 70, we organized a demonstration against the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal. The password of the demonstration was: PIS = PRL bis. At that time we thought that with the slogan we were exaggerating that the real return to the Polish People's Republic would only take place when the PIS assassinated the free elections. Until recently, until May 10, it seemed that freedom of elections was not at risk. The vote that was to take place on 10 May was cruelly verified. What was planned for May 10th had nothing to do with democratic elections. They were supposed to be their open caricatures, organized by party ministers and completely controlled by them, exactly the ones organized by the Polish United Workers' Party in the Polish People's Republic. May 10th, behind us, but the threat of undemocratic elections to a lamus has not gone away. Contrary to appearances, heated in discussions, in these elections not the deadline for voting is the most important. Because the essence of free elections isn't just a vote. The essence of the election is the election campaign. It is because of the election campaign that elections are called a celebration of democracy. And the celebration of democracy is not that on the day of the vote, you can throw a ballot box into a urn, a box on the market, or someplace else. This could also be done in the Polish People's Republic. But no one rationally called those elections a celebration of democracy or even called them elections. The celebration of democracy is that a person who wants to have an honorable function on behalf of the voters The councilman, mayor, Member, Senator or President of the country goes to this voter, to his sovereign, to the citizen, to society, to the street, to date him. He discusses, convinces him to make his point, concepts and visions, and convinces him to cast his vote for her. During the campaign, literally, power comes to the citizen and listens to him. He listens to what he, the citizen, has to say. And this is the most beautiful moment of democracy, and this is the celebration of democracy. Unfortunately, the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland during the ever-growing wave of epidemics will not be a celebration of democracy. There is no free dialogue with voters under the current conditions. There is no possibility of unlimited meetings or discussions. At the previous Senate meeting, for this reason, we called on the Prime Minister of the Government to introduce a state of natural disaster and postpone the elections to a time when they could take place with respect for democracy, for society, with appreciation for the values of the so-called festival of democracy. The Prime Minister of Poland or any of his representatives even appeared in the Senate to talk about it with us, senators. He couldn't afford to respect the higher chamber creating the law that he had to exercise. In no way did he refer to today's resolution of the Senate addressed to him. It shows where we are and where we're going. Nevertheless, I am sure that as a democratic opposition we have succeeded. Poles learned about the threat our country and our young democracy faced. No longer a party minister will organize elections. And I have no doubt that whenever the presidential elections take place, Poles in their wisdom will break this march to the Polish Bishops. Déjà vu does not threaten us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of your marshal, Senator Mark Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Slowly, the debt ends. Euphemistically speaking A legislative marathon related to the Senate electoral law. I hope that in a dozen or several dozen minutes the Senate will adopt a resolution on the electoral bill and that Marshal Grodzki will send it to the Sejm today. Every day counts. We thought that in the Senate in recent weeks we agreed beyond any doubt on this one matter: that on August 6, this year. In accordance with constitutional terms, we must take an oath from the newly elected President of the Republic and on 7 August he should begin office in the Presidential Palace. If we adopt this law today, it will give us the opportunity to implement this absolutely fundamental constitutional obligation, which rests with the Polish state. The Polish legislator, the Sejm and the Senate are obliged to adopt a law that is difficult because it is adopted in unprecedented circumstances, in an ongoing epidemic and in huge political difficulties, in which, unfortunately, the Senate of the Republic of Poland played a key negative role. I say this with great regret as Vice-Marshal of the Senate representing 48 Senators of Law and Justice. At all legislative stages, we went out with good will, open to discussion, to amendments, to change, in order to make electoral law as compatible as possible. The bill is already 18th day in the Senate. It's still progressing because it could've been here 30 days. But that's far too long, it's completely unnecessary. If we could squeeze the days and hours in which the Senate was sitting, we could do everything in a few days, for the benefit of the Republic, for the benefit of constitutional order and, above all, for the great benefit of organising the electoral process itself. Today again, thanks to the Senate, we are in a situation where the organisation of elections in due time, in order to meet the requirements of the Constitution, will be a huge organisational, political and logistical effort for all institutions involved in this process. But I believe deeply that the Polish state will stand at the level of the task and that these elections will take place. The Poles are waiting for the election. Poles demand elections because the election of the President of the Republic is the most important of all elections which can be made in the Republic of Poland. We choose the head of state. The Poles have repeatedly made it clear that they are demanding these elections, that they are waiting for the bill, that they are already very impatient with the whole obstructive process which we observe in the Polish Parliament, and especially in the Senate. Today I would especially like to thank the Warsaw clubs of the Polish Gazeta, headed by Mr Adam Borowski, who organized a rally in front of the Polish Sejm and the Senate, whose aim is to call on the Senate to pass the bill as soon as possible. ...Today's patchwork. It's not like... And why are you... It is not that you represent the whole Republic. It's not like everyone's talking in your voice. No. This is still the voice of Poles claiming democracy, freedom and implementation of the fundamental right of participation in elections. Then why didn't you organize the election? Mrs. Senator, on May 10th, the election did not take place because you had such a political fantasy. You were looking down at the polls of your presidential candidate, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, and you torpedoed the election to get the candidate replaced. [[Applause]] You will not convince Poles that the basic driving force of your actions was the rule of law, constitution, etc., etc. And Mr Czarnek really... Please don't interrupt the senator. When you are here telling miracles about the Soviet model, about some totalitarian analogys relating to our power, we are taking it calmly. We listen to these lies, so now you listen to what the Senate Vice-Marshal representing almost half of this House has to say. I'm not gonna talk anymore, because everything we could say about this bill in the Senate has been said and Once again, it could be said much quicker, shorter, with great benefit for the Republic. I hope that the elections will be held, that the Poles will elect this president, whom they want, that you will not do them in this, that you will no longer disturb them, and what is most important, and so this is a celebration of democracy, despite the very difficult conditions in which we are located, will be held for the benefit of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron. Can I come here? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a law on the organisation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland, again, not for the first time. It might seem that during the pandemic period, the senators will, in accordance with and beyond the divisions, adopt new electoral rules so that voters are safe and universal, equal, secret and constitutional elections. Unfortunately, what it seemed to be It should be obvious, it hasn't become a reality. We are in a situation where today we are asked a question of ordinary decency, credibility, keeping promises and limits of hypocrisy. We are senators of the Republic of Poland, was an oath: faithfully and conscientiously perform duties towards the nation, protect the sovereignty of the country and the welfare of citizens, observe the legal order. Why do many, too many of these words seem meaningless? Maybe it's time for words to be consistent with actions. It cannot be that one day a politician threatens with deadly envelopes, and a few days later he has signed letters of support for the new presidential candidate. These questions are obvious today. Did all this concern for citizens, the scaring of the virus and the narrative about these envelopes have anything to do with the good of Poles? Wasn't the only goal behind the polls to change the candidate for the Civic Coalition to president? I saw, I was ashamed that there was this... when a single woman, Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, first the best and winning presidential candidate, after self-criticism, as it seems in the PZPR, had to, like, give up an unnecessary item, to run for office. And again empty words, uncoverable promises, and that violation of the law, and that in the Senate. I wouldn't have said that today if it hadn't happened again during the work on that bill. Therefore, at this point I must talk about the way in which the previous law was dealt with, adopted by the Sejm on 6 April, concerning the so-called. envelope choices. The debate about it took place in the Senate on May 5th, after almost 30 days, well, lying law, you can say, in the Senate. I expected that, after the bill was passed to the Senate, we would be able to improve this bill among the senators, ensuring, among others. that no one should be excluded from the election. After all, nothing happened in the way of adopting different changes in the Senate when it comes to voting in terms of the way in which the elections are held, in terms of security, to do That's all we're doing today. Such amendments could already have been introduced at that time, as they can be introduced today. But it doesn't seem like there was any good faith. I don't know if it was about the citizens and, above all, I don't know if it was about the constitution. We know that the work on this bill was delayed, and the vote on it was delayed. And that's why I'm talking about it, it took place at a different time than it was publicly and formally declared. It took place at night when many senators were absent from the sitting room or in front of the monitors. We thought there wouldn't be votes. We also know that the senators were dropping out of the list of speeches in the debate, as if such an order had been given. And that's why I think it was a ruse, a ruse. There shouldn't be such a vote, it just shouldn't. Senators, you know how it was. But that's not all, because it's also about the law. I am sure that this Senate resolution has been taken, which should be stressed, in violation of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, because the Senior Convention has not been consulted. You know that. And that's not all. The worst part is that I tabled amendments, and those amendments that were tabled during the debate and were neither recognised nor even put to the vote. It's never been like this for the senator to make any adjustments. The same as the ones that are included in this law today. The amendments were neither recognised nor even put to the vote. And it's not about the outcome of this vote, it's about the law. That's why I'm talking about this today. I believe that in the adoption of the Senate resolution, the boundaries of good practice were exceeded, but above all, the law, that is, the Senate Rules of Procedure. Again, what about the constitution we're always talking about? Are these the standards that respect the importance of the Senate? I am not only amazed and outraged by such conduct, but, above all, very disappointed. Well, two weeks ago, I wrote a letter to your marshal and I'm waiting for an explanation, because we're talking about the law. Is it acceptable for the Senate, with the confidence of the voters, to resort to all kinds of dirty games? This process is disrespectful not only to senators, but also to voters. The Senate is absolutely not a place where all the tricks are allowed. This is a place where a good law should be created, not a law for party colleagues or political groups. What are we dealing with today? With an atmosphere of hatred and putting one person on the other. Citizens are fed up with endless commotions, thinking of a large part of politicians only about themselves. People don't understand what politicians are talking about. The time has come for parliamentarians to realise what situation they have led to. People don't want legal chaos or party games. That's not what they expected when they cast their votes in the election. And lastly, the constitution can't just be a screen. I fought with Mr Waldek from Koszalin, Mrs Jola from Warsaw and hundreds of thousands of people for the constitution when they were told to pay for the so-called. membership of the cooperative several thousand zlotys or pay for the apartments for which they paid long time ago. And the rules were unconstitutional. And I didn't hear from the same mouths of today's most important politicians, among others. with PO and PSL, the words "Constitution." They were defending unconstitutional laws, blocking changes that were good for people. And the constitution? I fought with Jadzia's family from Silesia for the constitution or with the family of farmers from the Good City when they became victims of loan sharks. And the constitution? I also fought with Mrs. Renata for the constitution when her drunken husband sold her house for 20,000 zlotys, the only roof over her head. The woman and her disabled son moved to a friend's room, but the bailiff for the eviction that wasn't there told him to pay 16 thousand zlotys. And the constitution? I won in these cases. Moreover, some regulations have been changed, but not thanks to those who talk about democracy and constitution from morning to evening, and not thanks to those who have the inscription "Constitution" on flags and clothes. That's why I'm asking you. I'm appealing, and I'm asking you. That these words should not be empty words to fill them with content and deed for our common good, for the sake of all Poles. And I hope that today, the adoption of a change of electoral order is also there my amendments, which were earlier, just the same, by the Senate will finally allow the quick, efficient and safe conduct of elections, so that Poles can make the choice of the person who will be President of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, reminding us that we are all subject to a 10-minute limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will begin by referring to what we have heard here in this House quite recently, while referring to one of the amendments that are proposed by the Senate majority, which we have questioned. It's about increasing surveillance. That's what I'd call it. The State Election Commission in certain cases, namely Amendment 21, which, after consulting the State Election Commission, converts words into words in agreement with the State Election Commission. Everything would be okay, because it should actually be, because the State Election Commission is the main body that conducts the elections, only that there are mistakes or omissions at the root of this amendment and some others. It is true that in the case of accelerated elections to the Sejm and, of course, to the Senate, for example. shortening the term of the Sejm, there is also a shortened calendar and it is specified It's an art. 195 §2 point 1 is a specific timetable for the execution of individual electoral activities. And indeed it is possible to speed up the election of the President of the Republic. It's an art. 289 §2 and 290 §1. According to this last provision in the order, in the mother's bill And now, please be careful. It is written: the Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the State Election Commission, determines the calendar. Why is that? Because there are no deadlines in the electoral code for accelerated elections. Unlike the Seym and the Senate. Thus, this wording contained in the Act, which we are considering, in Print Act 118, was transferred, practically alive, from the Mother's Law. It hasn't hurt in nine years, for nine years, no one has indicated that this is an assassination attempt on democracy. Now it has turned out that this is an attempt on democracy and we need to increase the supervision of the PKW. Perhaps so, but it needs to be clarified in substance, not based on rules that do not exist, on something false, in short. I am directing these words to both Marshal Borowski and the Ombudsman, because you also used this argument. And now the core of the event. It used to be called development in court cases. 3 states: the past, the present and the future. The past is to describe what was, or facts, so that no one can change these facts unless he has bad will. The present to learn from it, and the future to learn from it, because of recommendations, what we can do about it. The past is clear: the elections did not take place on 10 May. Who's to blame, or what's to blame? First of all, the coravirus, but unfortunately, the opposition was added to the coronavirus. Let me remind you a few facts, a few states. Here in the Senate, this has been mentioned many times. For 30 days we were discussing, then possible to apply, the Act of 6 April. Of course, you can do that. Question is, do you have to? Do all State authorities have to use their prerogatives, or should they primarily, by using these prerogatives, act for the benefit of the State, move in one direction? Here, an organ called the Senate didn't work. Yeah, but it's not true that we've been looking into it for 30 days. No. On the twenty-nineth day after the evening vote, the Senate's opinion was ready. So the question is: what happened that only the next day, the 30th day, which is the last possible time it was brought back to the Sejm, to be considered? I remind you, it was a negative opinion. What happened? We'd have to ask Marshal Grodzki why he kept such an important bill for one calendar day. Was it intentional, or was it an omission, some kind of new policy? I don't know. I don't want to speculate. Fact two. It was already unacceptable for an average citizen to vote in correspondence that this vote was a threat to the lives and health of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps at first somebody fell for it, but then, when he concluded that many of the activities he was doing in his life during the pandemic were much more dangerous, he thought: what is it really about? Making from postmen and generally from Polish Post people or institutions that threaten the lives and health of citizens... And, interestingly, only in one case, that is, when they pass on the electoral package, because if they give a letter or give some amount of money, then they don't, then they don't. What was that all about? You'll be explaining yourself from the arguments you used back then. You'll want to disable them from public awareness as soon as possible. It can't be done that easily. The average man will remember how you misled him then. The attitude, the deliberate countering of some of them, is noted: some of the executives of the municipal government, mainly the presidents of large cities, those who are associated with the opposition of course. It's not enough that we're fighting. In fact, the struggle was not to transfer the electoral census to the authorized authority, i.e. to the Polish Post. I would like to remind you that there was already a law in force that gave the possibility of correspondence elections at the request of every person over 60 years of age. So this data was needed at the time, and even then the post office was authorized to take care of these people and hand over the electoral packages to them. But let's get back to... This wasn't just about the election records. After all, there have been situations where some cities have declared It was a reason for them to be praised. That they will not allow their ballot boxes to be handed over to the post office. They won't allow you to set the urn at the entrance door to the polls. That's a pro-state attitude? This is how some of our city's vagrants have served for the election result or for the lack of it. And the last one, probably the most appalling. The fact that individual election committees supporting the candidates' data have the right to delegate their persons to the circuit committees, where they need the most, is a privilege, that is a certain right. Only recently have individuals gained such a right through a notification to the electoral commissioner But it's also a duty. These committees thus participate in elections, whether parliamentary or, in this case, presidential. I'm gonna read it because it hasn't sounded like a lot of candidates yet, and we've got 27,000 regional election boards in the country... Andrzej Duda's electoral committee has submitted over 33 thousand applications, proposals for candidates for the compositions of these regional committees. Next: election committee of Krzysztof Bosak More than 12 thousand; Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish committee More than 9 000 100; Robert Biedron's Committee More than 9 000 100; Stanisław Jółk's Committee close to 5 thousand 600; Mirosław Piotrowski's committee Nearly 3 thousand; Paul Tananny's committee More than 1 thousand 700 applications; Mark Jakubiak Committee More than 742 candidates. I'm deliberately listing those committees that have their candidates, that is, the ten awarded... But so far, I've only mentioned nine. And at the bottom of the table This is item 24, for the 34 committees, is the committee of Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, who has submitted 379 persons to the regional committees. And it's an act, not just a word through friendly media. That's how it's done so the election doesn't take place. 1% , slightly over 1% in relation to the number of regional committees, slightly over 1% in relation to the number of candidates that Andrzej Duda has identified as possible members of the regional committees. You're never gonna explain yourself because that's... This was one of the reasons why the elections did not take place, but it also shows your attitude towards the state, to civic responsibilities, to you as a political formation. Why'd you do that? There are three possible explanations. The first is a desire to change candidates. If it's true, we see it, it's happening right in front of us. We don't know if it's going to happen. The second is the destabilization of the state... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If you don't mind, I'll finish talking. We'll talk about the future after... The second possibility is the destabilization of the state. Well, this amendment, which, fortunately, has already been withdrawn and which was supposed to drag the electoral act, in general the entire electoral calendar beyond the date of 6 August, can testify to that. Luckily, they pulled out of it. The third option is the desire to introduce in all possible ways a natural disaster, one of the emergency states. Well, here's the other bottom, that's what we've talked about in this High House. I'll talk about the future in the next five minutes. And now the last sentence about the present. We should just learn from it. Well, the basic conclusion is that by giving local governments very much authority in this Episcopal Act, much greater than in the Code, I would call it, ordinary, in the Mother's Law, for the second time, we give them a very large credit. I hope our local governments don't abuse that trust. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u25	Mr. Senator, you have definitely overused your time because you have spoken almost 14 minutes against 10, and therefore your hope for the next 5 minutes seems somewhat flaming to me. Please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Senator Skurkiewicz didn't say anything. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] Senator Skurkiewicz is provocatively silent. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I ask you, gentlemen and ladies, to remain calm and not to comment on the meetings from the places. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a political crisis in Poland, we have a serious constitutional crisis, a crisis that has been creating and escalating the ruling party since 2015. The failure to hold and postpone the presidential elections is another aspect of this crisis. The Poles hoped that in the elections of 2020 they would be able to change the President, who not only did not stand up for the Constitution, but to sign unconstitutional laws, to nominate judges to the contested, questionable chambers of the Supreme Court, to pardon her before conviction all the time notoriously breaks her. Unfortunately, the time has come for pandemics, the time which has exposed all the mistakes of this government: unprepared health care, the lack of system solutions protecting society, protecting the health and life of citizens, their workers' rights and the existence of their families. The money's been given out to fulfill the election promise to grow up, on credit. Therefore, instead of taking advantage of the solutions provided for in the Constitution, it was decided to push for elections at all costs only to stay in power. At the same time, the long-standing electoral campaign and its political rivalry and the need to mobilise the electorates of individual candidates on a permanent basis, the considerable costs incurred by the electoral committees to finance the electoral campaign and the elections that did not take place, strengthen political conflicts in the country and significantly hinder the resolution of many problems caused by the epidemic. In the current situation, both candidates and supporting political groups see the potential negative impact of extending the campaign on their candidates' success. Everyone started to think that working in the Senate, making meaningful amendments, applying for expert opinions... This is already seen not only by favorable power, but also by considered liberal media as political obstruction. Different intentions that are not related to reality are attributed. It has succeeded in creating a narrative that removes from the view many observers of social and political life, as well as the problem of standards according to which the most important person in the country is to be elected in a democratic state. And it's extremely sad. Realism and pragmatism justify giving up rules, one that would have never occurred to anyone a few years ago. The advantage of policy over law is a fact in the present situation. Political emotions clouded the principle of respect for the law. The Senate has sought to improve this law and to give it such qualities that, although minimally respecting the rules, have succeeded only in part. I'm so digressive. At a time when the left was ruling, similar solutions did not come to the mind of a respected and respectable politician. At a time when the left was ruled, the government fell by words or magazines. And I'd leave it that way to think about it. But there is hope that one day we will all wake up from this bad dream and return to normality. All I can count on right now is that the outcome of these elections will be respected, whatever it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u27	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Aleksander Pociej, who will join our deliberations remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I hope I'm heard. You're perfectly heard, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much. Today, when we voted on the amendments, I was built. I was built by what Mr Czarnek said at the end of the quite hawk. He thanked the Senate for a constructive debate and for the fact that we could all agree on at least 30 of the 43 amendments. A few more were voted out, supported by a majority. In fact, we were able to work out a change together. And therefore I cannot understand Senator Pęk's speech, who accused the Senate of a long legislative marathon and obstruction. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing your Marshal. That is absolutely not true. The Sejm adopted a terrible bill in 10 hours. The state has reported... You personally tabled amendments today, at the last minute, not at the beginning, but at the end of the committee meeting. In agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with the State Election Commission... You got an amendment, at least five or six, because it turns out it's a bad bill, with gaps. And at the last minute, you realized it was bullshit. I wouldn't say that because we accepted it all in consensus, but you, I don't know why. I understand that this is political rhetoric, and you, too, must be a hawk in this discussion in order to achieve your political goal... But our discussion at the committee was completely different. And remember, really, please remember that we agreed without murmuring that these amendments should be tabled. And many of them, together with the State Election Commission and the Minister of Justice, have also approved the vote. You said, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, it was some kind of opposition game. It wasn't a game. And I recall the earlier sentence from one of the statements that as usual you carried out this bill in a moment. And you know it well. And we can stand up tomorrow and look each other in the eye That it was again a bullshit that had been corrected. To a certain extent, you will certainly reject these amendments, but only because you want to leave yourself in charge of the electoral process. As for Senator Staron's flaming speech, Senator, if you'd... I must admit, although I do not agree with Senator Czerwinski all the time, at least he comes to committee meetings. You gave the senator a flaming speech and I wonder who wrote that speech. Because if you were to give this speech in your own experience, then... I'm trying to figure out what this experience is. You were talking to the senator about proceding some kind of indecent bill from May 10th, i.e. The one that was supposed to lead to the election on May 10th. We had two committee meetings, 28 April and 4 May. I would like to tell the senator that you were not at the committee meeting on 28 April or 4 May, where you could take part in the discussion and take the floor. Regarding the bill discussed today, we had committee meetings on 21 May, 26 May and today. I want to tell you that on 21 May the senator wasn't at the committee meeting, and on 26 May the senator wasn't at the committee meeting, and today you came to sign the list and didn't have time to vote. What the senator is trying to tell me is that you cared about the shape of this bill, that the senator was wondering how to change it? You weren't at any of the five committee meetings. Well, once you signed the list, the last one, but you didn't even vote. It is important to consider before making such serious accusations. As far as Senator Czerwinski is concerned, Mr. Senator said that for nine years we didn't have any pain that this system was what it was. Mr. Senator, it didn't hurt us, among other things. 'Cause there were other democracies. There was the Supreme Court, there was the Constitutional Tribunal, there was an independent prosecutor general. As a result, the democratic process... Oh, I'm so sorry, but also the State Election Commission has been filled differently, because you've changed that, too. In connection with the State Election Commission, I would like to remind her of her former president, who was from your political circle. Mr. President, your patron, Mr. Hermelinski's attorney. Even though he was from your political circle, he was an independent man at that time in a completely different way. Which today says that the way you tried to set up these elections, especially on 10 May, was not acceptable at all. So we could see things differently. And you said one more thing. You were talking about the alleged destabilization of the state by our camp. That's a terrible charge. You're using that charge like a cunt. I want to tell you that in the discussion about the protection of entrepreneurs, about the next shield, you said, Mr. Senator, that we want to let go of the bags. And we talked about the fact that, if the situation is extraordinary, citizens have the right to protection, and this protection is to be given to them by the state. We, Senator, do not want to let go of your bags. Such statements, such an approach to the citizens as you present, indicate that your camp wants to put citizens in socks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u29	Thank you, Senator. Senator Lydia Staroń, I understand, in ad vocem mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u30	Of course I do. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator's charges are embarrassing, at least embarrassing. Mr. Senator, we can work remotely now because there's a plague. I think you know the current state of affairs in terms of regulations. The senator can work here in the Senate, but he can also work remotely. Not at committee meetings. Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm working... Well, I'm a risky person because I recently had a stroke. But it's okay. Luckily, I'm writing on my own. That's all I'm saying. I'm telling you, I've learned to speak again. And I'm thinking on my own. I work for people, I help people. Not much, a man can read the rules, and not only that, but also the Senate Rules. And you know, you should know, because you're a lawyer, what the agenda is, and how the Senate works, you should know. And if there is a bill, if the senators have tabled amendments during the debate, it does not have to be during the committee meeting, but during the debate, the sitting, then these amendments should be recognised and voted on. It's known... It's a violation of the law, just a violation of the law. So here's what I'm going to say: when it comes to that bill, as far as that order is concerned, it was a matter not only of crossing the line of decency, of good morals, but, above all, of law, of law. Because the first thing is, it can't be at night if the convention knew... Excuse me, Senator. I'm so sorry... But I have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u31	But no, no, just a second, I'd like to... And you're entitled to that, you've been attacked, you're defending yourself... But I suggest we treat this speech like a five-minute speech, and that way you can talk for five minutes, and I won't interrupt you, because I would feel... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're gonna argue with the attack on you, so I'd feel awkward interrupting you because it's up to you to decide how to answer that. So I suggest we take this five-minute mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u32	Mr. Marshal, let me put it this way: we all knew that the meeting was on May 5th, then May 6th, earlier... On 5 May, there was a debate on that law and the marshal said that the vote would be on 6 May. Yes. Six. Everyone knew that. Six! And what happened last night? And last night, the senators... They had the right, they knew there would be no votes, there was a debate, a list of people, speakers was very long and they knew it was hours of talking about this bill. And then all of a sudden, what happened? It happened that the Senators of the Civic Coalition, on an order, you might say, were removed from the list and suddenly the Marshal had to vote. What was the break? Ten minutes. Could anyone have made it? No. People have been excluded. That's what I'm talking about. I say it can't be that there are dirty games in the Senate that there's a trick that there's this kind of action. The Senate can't do that. That's the first thing. And the second thing is that during this debate, I tabled amendments. I made those corrections remotely. Could it be that... I tabled amendments at 8:45 p.m. and the debate ended at 9:20 p.m. Could it be that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry. It's just a violation. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, Senator, it can't be that the senators don't hear, they don't see what's happening. If there's a violation of the law and the marshal doesn't talk about it... I wrote to the marshal, asked for explanations. That's what I'm talking about. And if we say "constitution" and say "law," then it should be... And it's not just about the inscription "constitution," it's about the law, it's about the law, it's about the law good for people. It's good for people, not just that it's political business. It's just that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u33	Thank you very much. I understand you're Senator Czerwinski now. Let me remind you that you've been talking for 13 minutes, which means... It was called, too. Do you wish to speak in the formula of polemics, and that would be short polemics, or do you intend to use... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, we will not argue with anyone. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u34	Three minutes is all I need. Line one. Let me remind you that we are talking about the past. For you, the marshal specially... Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Samborski's committee, which, I remind you, does not run, has pointed out nearly 5,000 500 candidates to the regional committees. 15 times more than the committee of Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska. The present. As I said, we give very large credit to local governments. I hope that this loan will not be abused, especially in terms of the statements of President Poznań and others, who had already declared before the adoption of this law that the elections on 28 June could not be held, as a reason to point out, among others. That the M.A.'s are at that time. I remind you that five years ago there were graduate exams, and on May 10th this year there were also supposed to be graduate exams, so the reason is bullshit, of course. So the question is, what's going on here? I hope it was just an irresponsible statement. And now about the future. Very briefly, at the request of the marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my individual statement, but... I believe that this Episcopal Act should be in its main lines, those that do not raise any doubts. Included in the electoral code as a special chapter. First of all, the coronavirus doesn't let go, and we don't know how it's gonna be, we don't know what's gonna happen in the future. Secondly, every now and then elections are held during the term of office, complementary, accelerated, etc., and the question is whether such legislation, which may be applicable even to individual electoral acts in the future, should not be included in the electoral code. It's a matter to think about in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u35	Thank you very much for your very precise timing, Senator. Please, as the last recorded speaker, you will perform Senator Alexander Pociej, who is to speak in the 5-minute additional speech mode. You're welcome, Senator... No, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I thought I'd have to argue with some answers, but I understand that my arguments have been accepted, so thank you very much. I won't speak again. Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the following senators have made their speeches to the minutes: Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Benjamin Godyla. No legislative proposals were received. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? I'm declaring a brief recess... How many minutes? One minute. Please check that all requests and submissions submitted have already been forwarded by the senators. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 59 to 23 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. There are no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in 10 minutes. We're adjourned until 11:10. [[Adjournment from 23 minutes 00 to 23 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-01-senat-11-1.u36	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the second agenda: a law on special rules for the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act. A minority of committees also submitted a proposal for an amendment to the law. All the amendments presented are contained in Senate printing No 118 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. I would like to remind you that the senators present in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 give their vote by pressing the button on the apparatus. The Senators participating in the session are asked to press the button "OK" in order to confirm their willingness to take part in the vote, and then to select their choice after the selection window has appeared. I would like to remind you that you need to press the button "Transmit" or "Submit" in the top right corner of the window and approve this decision by pressing the next button "Transmit" or "Submit" again. We'll proceed with the vote. Gentlemen of Computer Science, I don't have a central desktop... Thank you very much. Well, I don't know if that's it, but... This is weird. When we take off... Okay, when we get started. Amendment 1 postpones the deadline for reporting the intention to vote in correspondence by voters in quarantine or isolation from the second one to the fifth day before the election day. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 1 person voting remotely please check... Please state the results of the vote. I ask those who vote remotely to check whether they have sent the message correctly, because if one person is missing, the system again calls for the vote of the remote person. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] Note: Amendments 2 and 8 should be voted on together. These amendments postpone the deadlines for reporting the intention to vote in correspondence by voters abroad and for sending them the electoral package. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. One person from the remote voters still hasn't sent... Hence the expectation of the results. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 1 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 3 provides for the transmission of correspondence data in the notification in order to facilitate contact with the electorate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 4 restores code rules for voting on the basis of a passport or identity card for voters abroad. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] N.B.: Amendments 5, 7 and 16 should be voted on together. These amendments make it easier for disabled voters to vote in correspondence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 6 provides that the electoral package will be delivered to voters as a registered consignment with written confirmation of receipt by one operator's employee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 7 had already been voted on, and 8 had already been voted in full. Note: Amendments 9 and 14 must also be voted together. These amendments clarify the way in which they are dealt with abroad in the absence of personal collection of electoral packages and the delivery of return envelopes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 10 deletes the following provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 11 changes the content of the electoral statement and the return envelope. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 12 brings to the bill certain rules on how to deliver the electoral package to voters subject to quarantine or isolation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 13 specifies how to install additional mailboxes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 14 has already been voted on, including Amendment 9. Amendment 15 increases the hourly opening of electoral sites. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes against, no one opposed, 47 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 16 has already been voted on, including Amendments 5 and 7. Amendment 17 corrects editorial errors. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] N.B.: Amendments 18 and 22 should be voted together. These amendments correct the references to the Act on the electoral code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 19 increases the time allocated to the broadcasts prepared by the election committees on TVP and Polish Radio. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 0 against, 47 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 20 makes it possible to collect signatures of support for candidates electronically. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 21 enhances the role of the State Election Commission in defining deadlines for the electoral calendar. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 22 has already been voted on, including Amendment 18. Amendment 23 guarantees a 10-day deadline for collecting signatures of support for presidential candidates. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 2 against, 45 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 24 shortens the deadline for the Supreme Court's ruling on the validity of elections. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 44 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 25 abolishes the possibility for the Marshal of the Sejm to move the deadline to the candidate's application with a full list of signatures. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 1 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 26 transfers the possibility to the State Election Commission to arrange for correspondence voting in part or throughout the country. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 were in favour, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 27 abolishes the possibility of changing electoral deadlines because of the arrangements for correspondence voting in part or the entire territory of the country. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 28 clarifies that the administration of anti-epidemic voting facilities is responsible for the administration and that the costs of these tasks as commissioned to the municipality are borne by the State budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you Senator Blackbay voting? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 29 regulates the way the municipality obtains information about voters in quarantine or isolation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 30 modifies the composition of the Regional Election Commissions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes against, 45 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 31 limits the possibility for the Commissioner to merge the regional electoral committees to cases where a request is made by the governor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 56 votes against, no one opposed, 43 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 32 abolishes the need to transfer unnecessary documents to the State Election Commission. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 33 allows the possibility of training for members of the regional committees also in a traditional form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 34 removes errors in the provision governing the possibility of using electoral packages printed before the entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 35 corrects the terminology error... No, a minority motion... But why not? I have here written that Amendments 35 and 36, and then a minority motion. Amendment 35 corrects the terminology error. Who's in favour? It's not working... Well, it's working. It's working. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 36 also corrects the terminology error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] And now the minority's request, which provides that an operator designated within the meaning of the Law, the Postal Law, will receive from the State budget resources for carrying out the tasks laid down by the Law to cover the total costs of those tasks, plus the cost of the capital involved for the designated operator. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 47 votes against, 51 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, with 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law on special rules for the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland, which was ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence. We are adjourned today. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Are the announcements of the committee's meetings? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 45]]
