ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u1	I open the ninth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Ryszard Śvilski, who is next to me, and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. The list of speakers in the Senate meeting room will be led by Senator Ryszard Świlski and in room 217 Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Dear Senators, I would like to provide you with some practical information on this meeting before proceeding. As a result of the epidemic, after obtaining the approval of the Senior Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in the discussion with the senators of the Secretaries as usual. I would remind you that this is Senator Ryszard Śvilski in the sitting room and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska in room 217. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals and speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate. This is very important. And that is why I ask: do all the countries in the meeting rooms, plenary and No 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? If not, please do so. On the other hand, the Senators taking part in the meeting in a remote way are asked to make sure that the iPads are connected to the power supply and that the cameras are turned on. I'm also asking you to ensure that the iPad and the camera lens are positioned so that you can be seen during the call, because thanks to the way we went through it yesterday, we can see each other and not just hear each other. You can subscribe to the questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application that is supported by the electronic secretaries of the sitting, sitting below me at several consoles. I'll be informed of the order of notification. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after the Speaker of the Senate has given it to him and after the microphone has been launched by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, please join the test vote, which is intended only to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting about the need to press 2 buttons 2 times you have to press the submit button, only then the voice comes to us. I see two people voting remotely... one more person right now... Oh, now everyone's voted out. Thank you very much. I still have a problem... But for the vote... Because now the vote... No, not yet. I haven't closed the vote yet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's not working... So Senator Kleina's card will be for exchange when he comes to... Votes. ...votes. Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted and this is important information, there are so many people in the halls, and in the remote vote, plus the ninety-fourth, Mr. Kleina. [[Voting No 1]] Thank you for being here. But this card has to be replaced because it usually worked. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Mr Andrzej Szczepański, senator of the third term, deputy chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, member of the Committee on National Economy and the Sub-Committee on Regional Policy, died on 28 March. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the deceased. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that at the ninth meeting of 31 March 2020 the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws and to the Act amending certain laws on the health system related to the prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and the only amendment of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the system of development institutions. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the fifth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. The Senators, the draft agenda was placed on senators' benches and sent by e-mail. I propose to consider point one and point two of the draft agenda, although the committee's reports on these matters were submitted at a later date than provided for in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the ninth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, if the Legislative Commission prepares reports for a draft resolution commemorating the victim of Katyn's Crime on the 80th anniversary of it and a draft resolution calling on the Polish Government to announce the final decision on eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year, the agenda may be supplemented tomorrow by a second reading of these projects. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on Specific Solutions to Support the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 98 and the report of the Commission In print No 98 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Act is to ensure the implementation and settlement of programmes co-financed under operational programmes in the context of a pandemic crisis and to offset the negative impact on the implementation, implementation and clearance of operational programmes. The Act will apply only to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. The solutions adopted in the Act are intended to enable institutions involved in the implementation of operational programmes and beneficiaries of those programmes to take action under changed circumstances caused by the epidemic. In particular, the Act provides for the issue, amendment and suspension of the guidelines, the possibility of amending the criteria laid down in the Act, the extension of the deadlines provided for in the Implementation Act, the possibility of amending the contracts, the extension of the appeal procedure, contains a number of similar provisions. This law is expected by entities distributing and spending EU money. As we have learned from the Minister, she has been consulted with the Marshals of the Voivodships and their suggestions have been included in this Act. Both legislative and substantive proposals submitted at the joint committee meeting were not accepted by the committees after the discussion. The joint committees unanimously adopted the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Most of the cases have been clarified, some considered too minor to submit amendments to the plenary session, or the parties have reached an agreement. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u3	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reporting. I'll just read the formula... Your senators in room 217, please report to the Senator Secretary, Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Senator, please send this letter to Senator Svilski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I'll get that information if anyone signs up. Please do not follow the order of applications. I would like to inform you that they will be allowed to speak alternately if this is the case. Senators sitting in the Senate building and senators participating remotely in the meeting. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. The bill was filed by the government. But before we ask for the floor of a representative of the government, you will ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. What was the opinion of local governments, whether the committee received comments on this project from local and local authorities or not? Were there negative opinions on the draft of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u5	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u6	We learned from the Minister that the bill was consulted with the Marshals of the Voivodships, and, as I said, that the proposals submitted by the Marshals were taken into account. As chairman of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, I have received the opinion of the ZITs, i.e. Integrated Territorial Investment, and more specifically the institutions that mediate in these regional programmes. I got two sets of proposals for amendments, I put them here... I asked the Minister to consider them. I did not consider it appropriate to report them, despite the failure by the government to take these proposals into account, as they were relatively insignificant, i.e. They wouldn't change the picture of this bill. Opinions on the bill were positive. What is more, it was all about time, because this law is very much expected by the institutions implementing the operational programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u7	Thank you very much. There are no more questions for the rapporteur in the chat room or in both rooms. I inform you that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak of the Ministry. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? From where? Just from the spot, Minister. There's a microphone over there. Everything's working. I would like to remind you that this is historic from the point of view of how the sitting will take on another historical dimension from tomorrow, because today wearing a mask in a public place is still non-binding, and from tomorrow morning, as I remind you, will be mandatory. And please follow these recommendations. At the same time it does not have to be a mask, it may be another type of material covering the nose and mouth in accordance with the guidelines of the Minister of Health. You're welcome, Minister. Closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u8	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to ask for this law because it is, as the senator mentioned, very much awaited by the institutions implementing European funds, as well as the beneficiaries of those projects which have found themselves, not because of their fault, in difficult situations when projects need to be implemented. The Act allows for such regulations, for which the beneficiary will not be liable in the event of failure to achieve the objective of the project, will not be liable. By applying the solutions proposed in the draft law, we will be able to react flexibly, depending on the situation, and apply appropriate legislative solutions. I would therefore very much like to ask you to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski again. [[Cell phone signal]] May I now, Mr. Marshal? You're welcome. Please turn off and mute your cell phones. [[Cell phone signal]] I don't know who he works for.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High... [[Cell phone signal]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to ask the Minister a developing question that was my previous question, addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur. I understand that with all the marshals of the voivodships this was consulted and was, as a matter of fact, a common position in the scope of this law? Or were there differences of opinion between the various marshals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u11	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u12	Thank you very much. Yes, it was presented... The bill was sent under the leadership of the convention to the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. We received a collective statement of comments from the marshals. These comments also influenced us, apart from those collected by the Podkarpackie Voivodship. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The comments submitted were taken into account in the proposed law, of course not all, because part of it was unfounded and there was no basis for amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u13	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that there are no further questions in the plenary room and in room 217 and in the remote chat room. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wouldn't have spoken unless there was a recurring inaccuracies related to the sources of origin of the funds from this project. These are not only the funds of the European Union, the countries of the European Union, but also other funds, including, for example, very important Norwegian funds. In my opinion, it is worth mentioning, for some justice, these other sources of funding for various projects. We know well that in these financial resources we use, there are funds from Switzerland, Iceland and, above all, Norway. I would like this to be recorded and for this reason I am supplementing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator, for this explanation. I remind you senators that it is possible to pass on speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators who are remotely present at the meeting. It is possible to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Now in order... No, not yet. They've put it on the record. Oh, I'm so sorry. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Mr Aleksander Swed and Senator Józef Łyczak have made their speeches to the minutes. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? Yes. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Forgive this a little slower pace, but I want to make sure that ladies and gentlemen of the Senators participating in the proceedings will have the opportunity to participate in them on the same rights as we do here in the halls. We proceed with the second agenda: the law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. To make it easier, I'll add that the name COVID-19 is also used, but it's the same thing. The text of the Act is contained in print 101 and the report of the Commission In prints No 101 A and 101 D. I will first ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present a report to the Health Commission on the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, which was adopted by the Sejm on 9 April 2020. On 13 April 2020, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee and, after considering the Act at its meeting today on 15 April, the committee informs that none of the proposals put to the vote received a majority of votes. During the committee meeting, of course, there was a discussion on the solutions proposed in this health project. The whole draft presented and examined at the committee meeting, as the title itself indicates, contains a number of instruments of support. As it turns out, these instruments and amendments concern almost 60 laws, which shows the enormous extent of the various amendments proposed by the Sejm in this project. Of course, it becomes clear that the area of health is equally important here, because speaking of the support of entrepreneurs and speaking of the economy, it is not possible to ignore the area of health and security or support not only for people who are ill but also for medical workers. I would like to remind you that at the Committee on Health we have dealt with health issues several times in terms of support opportunities, and every time we stress that two elements are at the forefront. In fact, we have been talking about these few issues since the start of the epidemic, which is the need for financial resources, the need for isolation and testing. Although it takes a few weeks, it turns out there are people who are very closely following how the government approaches these topics. That the problem of support, clear support in this area is not resolved by law. This creates chaos and lack of regulation. As I said, to the most important challenges facing us during the epidemic, an epidemic that is actually just ahead of us, as Minister Szumowski said, because he said that we should prepare for it and that the summit of this epidemic will only be about two weeks from now... We still don't have total security when it comes to testing medical personnel. Therefore, in the draft amendments presented and discussed at the Health Committee's meeting, we have focused on these key issues. I would also like to stress that the proposed amendments on testing have been discussed in previous committee meetings, but at this committee meeting we have slightly changed the approach to the proposed solutions, narrowing them down to staff, which, in our assessment, must be tested. These are medical personnel who are most at risk of contact with patients. We know that people can be carriers of the virus, but they don't know it because they don't have any symptoms. These patients with other diseases also go to hospital emergency or emergency rooms. That's why it's so important to protect medical workers and keep testing them. The idea is to keep them safe not only for themselves, for their families, but also for them not to be carriers of the spreading virus and at the same time not dangerous to patients. Therefore, the amendments proposed in this amendment have been somewhat narrowed down to medical staff who work in hospital emergency services, emergency rooms, hospitals, and medical rescue workers. I think that in such a form, Dear Senators, you will support medical staff, because not anyone else, like Minister Szumowski himself, says that testing opportunities are that we should perform about 20,000 tests and even more. As you know very well, we have not reached half of this number at the moment when it comes to testing. And this is all the more important for medical workers, because the percentage of infection of these workers is high, it is almost 20% and it is one of the highest indicators in Europe. This threatens with an absolute paralysis of the functioning of health care. And let us remember that the peak of the epidemic, as I said, ahead of us, is firstly, and secondly, it is very important to secure other patients, those who, for another reason, go to hospitals. The additional provision in one of the amendments shall include staff members of the DPS. Each of you has recently encountered these problems, heard what problems are now in such facilities, in DPSs and in other care facilities for the elderly. As a rule, the staff working there is few, and any employee who is suspected of being infected with a coronavirus or is already ill must be eliminated. This makes these care establishments unable to perform their basic tasks, and a group of people, seniors, the most vulnerable and most sensitive group, when it comes to infection with this virus, may remain unattended. Therefore, I would very much ask the honourable senators to draw attention to the fact that during the work of the Health Committee we have changed these records, narrowed them down to the necessary measures and to ensure that these regulations, which will be adopted, concern workers and protect them. On the occasion of the tests, I would just like to add that the doctors themselves say that there is a big chaos with testing, not only because the so-called one is missing. tubes of swabs or tests, but also in connection with bureaucracy, which makes doctors not sure they can take these tests, who will pay for them, what it all looks like from a formal point of view. This raises concerns about the truth, but the bureaucracy is worse, which makes the decision to carry out these tests must be taken by the district health inspector, and very often also together with the inspection of the voivodship. This, of course, extends time, and time is a very important factor here, because very often patients are tested just SORs or emergency rooms. This requires regulation, and that is why if this issue is resolved in the legal form and is issued by the Minister for Health of the Regulation, it will be absolutely clear and will help medical workers to work and not only protect them. In addition, we also propose the issue of saving funds. We also raised this issue, but in this case it is very specific. We are talking a lot about financial support for the economy, and I just want to stress very strongly that one of the very important areas of the economy is health. And, with all due respect to all entrepreneurs, however, I will defend that the saved amount of 20 billion is a targeted fund aimed at supporting all those who are helping in the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus and need both life-saving equipment and personal protective equipment, because, as we know, to this day, unfortunately, they do not always reach everyone. That is why this money is so important and that is why we would like it to be included in a special fund. The point is that this money can only be used in the area of health for support and assistance to medical workers and for all those who are fighting the epidemic. After the debate, a proposal for a law without amendments was tabled as well as amendments tabled by me. Both the proposal and the amendments did not receive a majority during the vote at the Health Committee meeting. Therefore, I hereby ask the High House to favour the vote on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I present a report as a result of the work of the Joint Committee on the Law on Specific Support Instruments adopted by the Sejm on 9 April 2020 in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to our committees on 9 April 2020, and the committees could read the bill and start working on it today. It was impossible to read the Act for formal reasons, because during the period between 9 and 15 April there were holidays of the Great Night, i.e. days which are excluded from normal work. The law itself reached the Senate in practice only on April 10th and on that day the Legislative Office, legislators could take care of this law and start analysis of the records contained in it. So today, after a long discussion, which took place in the morning, we adopted a report proposing that the High House adopt 44 amendments to this law. I am not going to say in detail what this bill contains, and I think it would be better if Minister Schreiber, who, on behalf of the government, is responsible for this bill. It contains a lot of records that support different areas of our lives in relation to the risk of the coronavirus. These records are an extension of the bill that we've passed as the Senate. And before that, the Sejm did it a dozen days ago. At that time the discussion on the bill was also very abundant, rich, full of various demands from the senators, we accepted many amendments at that time, of which finally more than 30 were accepted by the Sejm. Today's debate on this law was, in some sense, a continuation of what we did before. As a committee, we have drawn attention to the many weaknesses of that law, and this unfortunately has been repeated today. And this is not about content, because in many places this content is good and will certainly serve the interested. But the hardest thing for committee members, and as a consequence, I think, also for those who will be able to benefit from this law and the provisions of this law, is how to prepare the entire law. This once again is a very comprehensive law, it counts almost 150 pages and describes changes in very many laws, so to reach this substantive content, you need to have really very good legal knowledge. And unfortunately, those who are most interested in the provisions of this law will not easily reach these records or they will not be fully understandable to them, because the essence of this law is to amend the provisions which are contained in other laws. This was highlighted by the members of the committee, the joint committees during the debate, that even lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, etc. have a problem with understanding and reaching out to all the nuances of this law, and well. owners of micro-enterprises, small enterprises. There the owner must also be a lawyer, and an engineer, and an economist, and a salesman, and everything, and he must know more about these records. Of course, also in this debate, the Minister pointed out that on the websites of the government, the ministries, the Social Insurance Institution are, so to speak, simplified information about all these privileges and the good parts of this law, so you can reach these records. But that's not really the case either, because even on these websites, the tutorials are not entirely clear and understandable either. Therefore, during the committee meeting, questions were raised about various issues, detailed but also general. Because in recent days, or even today, the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance have been directly influenced by questions. They were also asked at the committee meeting. That's the question: does an entrepreneur have to pay a ZUS contribution, or doesn't he have to pay it? This is, it would seem, a simple case, you could say, well, at most it won't pay or pay a day later. But the consequence of such a decision, which is not explicitly described in the Act, is that if an entrepreneur has to pay and has not paid to this day, exactly until the 15th day of the month, then the entrepreneur The social welfare system does not fall out of the labour market and does not have the right to all social welfare benefits. This matter has not been clearly and precisely clarified, including at the committee meeting. There are a lot of problems, which is why these issues were raised at the committee meeting. Other things that some senators have been paying attention to... Senator Szejnfeld had a long speech devoted in general to the impact of these laws on the economy, the situation of entrepreneurs after the introduction of these laws resulting from the risk of the coronavirus. He talked about a lot of things. He also regretted the government's failure to take into account those laws which had been previously prepared by opposition politicians in the Sejm and here, by the Senate majority, during the work on the laws. It was also regrettable that there was simply no desire and willingness to listen to small proposals on such matters that could be regulated, without any political colour, without a great burden, sometimes even without any burden on the state budget, just because these proposals are made not by those parliamentarians by which they should be submitted. They are later rejected in the Seym. It's just a case that... And then, of course, such solutions appear in the next law, already as government reflections. But as I say, there may be different reasons for such actions, so here we do not want to make this clear. In addition, the senators also pointed out that, in addition to the various good records, many of them were introduced once again in the case of the first law on shield against the coravirus, records which are not directly related to problems arising from economic or social risks. I am talking about election records, issues related to access, universal access for Polish Post to protected data of citizens, i.e. data of PESEL. They would be transferred in full to the post office. And here, comparatively, because there were also such suggestions... Some people were just saying, what do you mean? After all, when you collect signatures on the street from people who support one or another policy, you also type in the PESEL number, address, etc., etc. Then why can't you do it here? The other senators pointed out that these are quite different things. Because there everyone individually decides to make their data available, and here the data of all adult citizens will be passed on to one institution, which is not a public administration, local government, but de facto a company, which is Polish Post. And this case raised doubts. Finally, the amendment was not tabled. She's due to be presented in plenary. But this case was very much covered. We've also introduced a lot of... Oh, and one more thing. And I'm gonna conclude the case. The senators also pointed out such a problem. It is possible that this case must be dealt with in the near future, maybe on the occasion of another law related to the coronavirus, that there are entire sectors of the economy which, although it is said to defreeze the sharpenings associated with the coronavirus, that it will occur gradually, say, from April 20th, according to what the Minister of Health said, have no chance this year to rebuild their position. Such an industry is e.g. tourism, because the minister in one of his public speeches said that there is no way that young people and adults can go on holiday in Poland during the summer. This can be a drama for many entrepreneurs, but also for towns, especially those that live mainly from tourism. Here is an example of coastal towns, which live practically only from tourism. Previously they lived additionally from fishing, but this fishing has been completely extinguished in recent months, fishing on the Baltic Sea has been halted for several years. So fishermen have been left without means at all or live only on measures that are aid measures, EU funds. Now another big industry in this area is shut down. This could lead to a serious crisis in those relatively small towns that had such an economy. This case requires an absolutely deeper interest... Here's another thing. A very thorough analysis should be carried out in individual ministries, which are also expected by senators, because there are whole professional groups, which may be scattered, may work in different areas. They were also deprived of their means of life. To a greater extent, not in such a literal sense. I mean, for example. cultural creators. As we know, some creators, actors who play in theatres because there are no theatre performances, have lost a basic part of their income. So there's a lot of problems, they have to be... Unfortunately, whether stetha, otherwise it is impossible to resolve these problems, they must be dealt with. Most of the amendments we tabled at the committee meeting were adopted unanimously. These were amendments agreed also with the government, proposals for amendments prepared by our Senate Legislative Office. Several legislators were involved in this bill at the same time, because it is so extensive and so diverse that one person, as it simply happens, would not be able to analyse all these records. The proposals for amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau today have been agreed with the government so that, let's say, do not destroy the main provisions of this law, they have been accepted and accepted. Some of the amendments, which are substantive and broader in nature, were accepted by various, so to speak, the majority, always above 10 votes, voted 10, 12, 13, 14 senators out of 17 present. So that the support for all these amendments was very strong. One last thing. Before I conclude my speech, I would like to ask on behalf of the joint committees that in the preparation of further laws... Well, there shouldn't be such forms that there's an article, e.g. Article 2 15, and to this article there are several letters: z, z, z. There is, for example. 5 times, later the letter "a' or "u', and then it is added: point 1 or point 1 (1). 2, 13, etc. The design of these rules is so complicated and so unclear that it is simply not possible to work so rationally on the laws that come to us. So that's it. On behalf of the joint committees, please accept the amendments that have been prepared and adopted at today's committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. May I remind you that in room 217, we are reporting questions to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Senator Secretary, please send this letter to Senator Richard Śvilski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I can see that there are reports. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. Are there any questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No questions. There are no questions for the Senators. I would like to inform you that the bill was filed by the government and Members. The Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't think I'm gonna be prolonging your sitting with this speech. I'm ready to answer questions. 'Cause I've already discussed the issues relating to the draft law at the committee's meeting, and I think that would be probably a better practice. Unless it's your senator's wish... If so, of course I'm ready.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Yeah, that's probably what we're gonna do. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr Adam Szejnfeld was the first person to vote, the second person to be allowed to sit remotely. So far, no one's... And Tyszkiewicz? Oh, I'm sorry, my friend, Mr. Senator, he's withdrawn his question. Then we begin with Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A question for the Minister. President Kleina has already mentioned this issue. I asked that question at the committee meeting, but I didn't get an answer. And that answer is more important. not so much for me as for tens or hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in Poland, who still do not know whether to pay ZUS contributions or do not have what will happen if they do not pay, whether they will actually be punished by falling out of the social security system, and if they pay, having the power to exempt them from contributions, whether these funds will be returned to them. There is no answer to that, and it should be, and it should not be today, because already earlier, as today is the last deadline for the deposit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u23	You're welcome. If I had to answer... The question is, Mr. Marshal, would you mind if we... Perhaps the senators would ask questions, and I would try to answer all these questions together. These are important questions... We can group them after three, but after that question. So let's group them up after 3. We'll get started. The Minister will be kind to answer this question, and then we will try to group questions after 3 but, as I say, it is a bit embarrassing in a situation of remote sitting. But we're gonna try to make things right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, all right. To answer the senator's question... Shejnfeld. First of all, of course, we wouldn't have that problem if the Senate could...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u25	The camera doesn't show Minister Schreiber. Change the camera because it's showing someone else, and I want the remote sitters to see the minister. Minister Schreiber is sitting there in a blue suit. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, it's not that one yet. This is Minister Gryglas. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because of the masks... But it's the wrong side of the room. It's the wrong side of the room. This is the press site. If there's no camera, I... But I think the camera covers those places. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I can't see yet... Oh, now you can see Minister Schreiber. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u26	Well, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, of course we wouldn't have this problem if we could consider this bill on Friday. But I understand it's so... No, no... It's like... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please... It will be possible to ask further questions to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to answer your questions and address the problem that has arisen here. We're in an extraordinary situation. I think we're all aware of that. And it wouldn't really be a problem if the bill could be dealt with more quickly. I understand that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I understand you've decided otherwise, and I respect that. I think it's obvious... I can't imagine entrepreneurs being punished in a situation where the bill is now being prosecuted. We're talking about... I understand that Mr. Senator is referring to small companies that are covered by the Act by 50% exemption from the costs of the Social Security Office. This commitment shall be accepted by the State and shall expire on the 15th. I strongly believe that today we will finish working in the Senate and that tomorrow the Sejm will consider this bill. I hope that the President will sign it again this week. That would mean that this bill is about to enter into force. I think that if an entrepreneur lately pays off the Social Security Office, nothing will happen and he will not be prosecuted in any way. That's one thing. Secondly, entrepreneurs who have already done so The time limits were also fifth or tenth. They will be able to ask the Social Security Office for compensation and reimbursement. If the Minister could possibly add something, expand it, please. Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As I explained earlier at the committee meeting, we submit our proposals together with the declarations by 30 June. Nothing changes in this respect. We will also make such a change that those who have paid the insurance premium for various reasons will also be able to benefit from this exemption. If they meet all the conditions, they will be able to apply to the Social Security Office for reimbursement of the contribution paid. This case is clarified and here no entrepreneur will be harmed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u28	It's such a clear, simple message. We can pass this on to the entrepreneurs that we will take over. I hope that the amendment of the Senators of Law and Justice, which extends the provision of exemption from the Social Security Office to persons engaged in a single business activity which is to be abolished the maximum income of PLN 15 000 600, so they will also be able to benefit from it. All you have to do is make this loss 15%. ...it seems that they will all be able to benefit from it and none of them will be punished. They will not be initiated against them, as the senator says here, if there are a few days of delay. Besides, we've had such conversations today, too. This isn't happening. There is some reasonableness in dealing with this problem. That signal, I think, can go. I hope, as I said, that you will complete your work on the bill as soon as possible and that it can be sent back to the Sejm, which I ask warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u29	Thank you very much. I would like to draw the Minister's attention. Maybe you missed two pretty important facts. Namely, I would ask you to refrain from commenting on what we could and when we should. The bill physically reached the Senate on Good Friday around hours. 16.10. On Good Friday, that is, the time to consider the Passion of the Lord. And with all the clubs, including the Law and Justice Club, we agreed it wasn't a day for the Senate. Besides, we had to test the remote voting system. And that's the story of it. I propose not to heat the atmosphere politically, but to focus on the content page. Now you will ask the question of Marshal Borusewicz, and she is preparing to chat with Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. And then Senator Jolanta Hibner. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm interested in what it is, let's say, a gray number in the statistics infected with coronavirus. Well, the Minister of Health last week... No, at the last meeting of the Sejm, he said there were 3,500 cases registered. And according to what should be, there should be 9,000 diseases. Statistics cannot capture everything, e.g. asymptomatic diseases. It is also unable to capture such diseases in a situation where tests have been sparingly managed over the last month. Does the Ministry, the government, analyze this gray number that undoubtedly exists? It's probably between three and a half thousand cases last week and nine thousand cases that didn't happen, which the government considers to be a success. If the Minister of Health could answer, I would be very grateful, and if he is not, I would ask Minister Schreiber for his reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor is now in the chat room. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u32	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's a chat debut. I have a brief question for the Minister about entrepreneurs. Tell me in detail, or under this bill... Does the Act treat businesses equally in the field of civil partnership activities and single-person activities? In particular, it is difficult to accept the interpretation of the provisions on exemption from payment of ZUS contributions in the case of a civil company. Well, when it is a one-man activity, the owner may for 3 months not pay ZUS for himself. In a civil partnership there is no possibility if the income on each of the partners is above PLN 15 thousand. Does the Minister believe that it is fair for those entrepreneurs who carry on such an economic activity to define this in the framework of this law that we are currently debating? Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. And the third question. Senator Jolanta Hibner will ask them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u34	Thank you very much. Today, at the committee meeting, we discussed the issue of this aid, which is primarily needed by the economy and businesses. But what did it turn out to be? It's a flower like that, Art. 97, which provides that all data from PESEL or other registers, personal data, can be transmitted to the Polish Post Office. For what purpose? To give the possibility to organise elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. But, ladies and gentlemen, not only because these data may still be used to perform other duties imposed by government administrations. What other authorities have the right to have my personal data? That's the first question. Two. Ladies and gentlemen, recently personal data was leaked at the National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office in Cracow; it is already in the Lublin Public Prosecutor's Office. I ask who will take responsibility for leaking the number of data at the disposal of the organization, which is, so to speak, not entirely government-owned and does not take responsibility for it. And another flower for that. All these data are to be transmitted immediately, it is to last no more than 2 days. So within 2 days all data of Polish citizens are to be transmitted just like that, to the whistle of the Polish Post. Has anyone thought about what this is all about? I ask the Minister to tell us what the purpose is, why our personal data is to be at the disposal of the Polish Post Office and other bodies that... It doesn't say what they have to do. So, what do you need for surveillance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u35	Thank you very much. I think the question about the number of infected... But we will wait for Minister Kraska. Try calling Minister Kraska or another authorised representative of the Ministry. The other questions, please, will be answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u36	As far as the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, is concerned, we will answer in writing. I don't feel up to answering that question. As far as Senator Hibner's question is concerned, I answered the senator at the committee meeting, as the rapporteur, Mr President, referred to. Nothing's changed since then. Well, I don't see any reason to have a big discussion about this article. This is an opportunity, as it is clear from the specific provisions that may be needed in connection with the election or other important matters related to the pandemic of Coronavirus. It is known that this is not meant to be used for any surveillance. I encourage you not to repeat this kind of panic. Like I said, if it's gonna be some kind of... Well, a lot more data can leak... certainly a lot less tighter than election committees that collect signatures under nominations. PESEL etc. must also be mentioned there. There are many such examples. It is obvious that the leaking of documents has appropriate consequences. That's all there is to it. I'm gonna ask for an answer on a civil partnership case from Minister Mark Nieblużak right away. Well, the company doesn't pay it as such. It's a suitable entrepreneur. But that will be explained by the Minister. I'd just like to point out, not wanting to get angry. It's absolutely not my intention. As far as I'm concerned, your marshal passed the bill to the marshal directly, to his own hands, on Thursday. So I don't know how this information about Friday and the evening hours. Thursday she was handed over, it's Wednesday. That's all I'd notice. Minister, if you could complete this statement...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u37	The essential thing has already fallen, it has been said by Minister Schreiber so briefly. Perhaps the name is a little confusing, but a civil company, please remember, is a contract, not a company, and every partner of a civil partnership must also be an individual entrepreneur registered or mentioned in the CEIDG, in this register. And these partners are the contributors. If they meet the conditions laid down in the rules which apply to all entrepreneurs, they may benefit from the exemption in respect of ZUS contributions and if not, they may not. This company... It's just a deal between them. Yes? For this reason, it is difficult to say here that civil companies are discriminated against. Seems like a little bit of a misunderstanding. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u38	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide that I have a serious problem with the support of this law, because this law introduces numerous restrictions on civil liberties. Really far-reaching changes in restrictions are being made under the cover of aid. Some of them were mentioned by Senator Hibner just now. I will mention others, resulting, for example, from the amendment of environmental legislation, in parts related to portable, freestanding antenna masts. Normally this type of device must obtain an environmental impact report. Every citizen, anyone interested, participates in this process. This device emits an electromagnetic field. The electromagnetic field is a threat to human health, not something that helps. There is no reason in this particular law for a provision abolishing the obligation to draw up environmental impact reports or to continue to abolish the obligation to obtain a building permit. I would like to say that Poland is already well covered with antennas. Even... The Minister will be making eyes in a moment... I know. We had our differences in the Sejm in the previous term of office. The Minister, even on Jesus' head in Świebodzin, set an antenna, making a joke or making a mockery of a serious matter. And this is just one example. Another example is data that... Mr. Senator, question. I'd really like to ask you a question. In a minute. I'll ask, wait, just this second example I want to give. The second example concerns the introduction of an obligation for operators to provide the Minister for Information on the location of end-user equipment at the request of the Minister for Information. You don't have enough surveillance on the Poles? I know. Intuition, it doesn't surprise me here. That you've been monitoring the opposition for a long time. But you want it more? More? What do you really care about? Helping Poles or restricting civil liberties? Because that's what it comes down to. You take away the opportunity of Poles to speak on various matters. And now the question is: why are such records in this law? Is this about 5G, Minister? So you want to get in the back door? Because you know people are rebelling? Do you want to keep an eye on Poles, Minister? Is that what you need? Is that what all this is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u40	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u41	Two short questions for the Minister. First question: what is the amount of State budget commitments contained in this Act? On the one hand, we have a prime minister who talks about PLN 212 billion, not just pointing out this law. On the other hand, we have specific provisions in the Act that this must not exceed PLN 153 billion. I've done the calculations, they've been verified by economists as well. They give you a completely different amount. And for this reason I would like to ask this first question: what is the actual amount of government budget commitments contained in this law? And the second question is about the world of culture. What proposals are addressed to the widely understood world of culture, i.e. those who run artistic institutions, are responsible for them, the artists themselves, but also those who carry out pedagogical activities in these institutions. I am saying this in the context of the amendments we tabled in the Senate for the previous law. There we proposed a very modest package - Very modest. In order to at least compensate institutions for the expenditure already incurred in preparing various pedagogical, artistic, concert and event projects which have been cancelled due to Coronavirus. I feel a certain aversion to this environment. We have the Polish Hunting Union, we have masts, we have various issues completely unrelated to the Koravirus, and the world of culture has been left to itself, although these are specific people, often very young, with families without the possibility to bear the cost of living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u42	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond. And then we will ask Senator Borusewicz, Mr Marshal, to repeat the question to Minister Kraski because the Minister has already appeared. But first, the answer to these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Accusing us of aversion to the artist's environment Maybe I'll start at the end. It's really not fair, Mr. Senator. I think you are well aware, and this is complementary to the answer to the first part of your question, that the project we are discussing today is to extend certain records of this crisis shield. The first law entered into force on 1 April, there was also a whole package of solutions for culture, for the world of culture. If you wish me not to leave out parts now and not to seem that these solutions are not enough, I am ready to commit myself to preparing in writing a summary of all the solutions for the representatives of the world of culture. I will also point out that there are records in this law concerning e.g. people who have civil law contracts, which are often also... Well, we're not talking about some great artists who take giant garbs, but if we're talking about people for whom every penny is important, it's an extension in the case of civil law contracts to make use of one to three times... If we are talking about parking, it certainly includes part of this environment. That's two. As far as all the costs that are here are concerned, I would point out that these costs, from the perspective of the whole public finance sector, as shown in the OSR, are at least 11.5 billion. We're talking about the bill we're talking about today. If you accept the amendments, especially one of them I was talking about, which was tabled by the Senators of Law and Justice, it will be another 4.5 billion. That's the minimum cost, it all depends on how many... I mean, not minimal, but estimated, more or less, but rather at the lower limit, depending on how many entrepreneurs will benefit from the solutions that have been written here. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the first package already adopted, the costs alone amounted to at least 90 billion if I am not mistaken. I would like to point out to the very honourable senator that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has presented in the financial shield a package of these solutions for entrepreneurs of 100 billion. I would also like to point out that this is not our last word, that we are working on further solutions. I'm sure they'll be presented, too, and the bill designs will be sent to you in the Senate. As far as Senator Gawłowski's concern about surveillance is concerned about tightening the rules, I think it's all very coherent... On the one hand, you present such demands, and on the other hand, your club and representatives of the opposition... Looks like you're an independent senator now. Yes? I'm sorry. Minister, I have a request: could you answer the questions directly? I answer, I answer the question... I'd like that very much. I'm answering. I'm just wondering how this goes about calling for an emergency, and I'm just wondering. We're trying not to. I hope the senator sees the government's concern that there should not be so much restrictions and restrictions, we do not want to introduce an emergency state. In addition, tomorrow, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki will present his ideas, such a way of walking away from certain restrictions, spread over at least mid-May. So that's the next step. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u44	Senator Gawłowski would like to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. You don't have to wonder what club you're going to. I do because it's none of your business. Just answer the questions and do it the way a public official is. Don't be arrogant because the government is late with the bill, Minister. You're not gonna be here giving lectures on whether the Senate is supposed to meet on Good Friday or not, because it's like the government sent a bill to Parliament sooner, for example. A month ago, the case would have been settled. That's one thing. I don't want any more comments from you. Secondly, Minister, you do not have a constitutional right to introduce these restrictions, because the constitution says that such restrictions are only possible when exceptional states are introduced. You don't want to bring them in because of the election, so in the back door, breaking the constitution, you're trying to enter those records. Introduce a state of emergency and then you will be able to apply these various restrictions and restrictions on civil liberties. And you know why you don't want to do that? Because there's an election. That's all you've got, that's all. You do not want to take care of the health and life of Poles, this is the whole truth about you. And, Minister, don't bother me anymore. Thank you very much. It's you... Excuse me, can I fill in?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u46	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. And please, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please... Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal... But just a second... Can I complete the answer to the question? Yeah, 'cause there was a question about... Oh, yet? Well, the Minister, it seemed, he's finished.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u47	Yeah, okay, but the senator spoke again. I would ask Minister Wanda Buk to comment on this alleged introduction through the back door of 5G. And the senator will allow me to answer as I see fit. Anyone can compare it, see how you spoke and what my answer was. Minister, but please... But... Is the Minister still answering the question? No, I'm done. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u48	Minister Wanda Buk. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u49	Thank you. I will also allow myself to add two words to the discussion, which is already moving towards the end of the discussion on the rules relating to the transmission of location data by operators. Of course, I understand your concern for freedom and privacy. We share it, but pay attention to the fact that the rules we are discussing are provisions that are, above all, That's what I'm saying right now. It is limited to the duration of the epidemic. This is very important because the European Data Protection regulator stresses that such rules, if they are introduced, must be limited in time. There is a clear objective in the legislation we are talking about, which is also underlined by the regulator, so we are fulfilling another condition. There's also a clearly defined catalogue of people here. This isn't about all of us, this is about people who are infected, and people who are in quarantine. I would also like to draw the attention of the senators to the fact that, also at European Union level, at European Commission level, such a discussion is taking place today. The use of personal data for the purpose of combating the epidemic was addressed by the European Data Protection regulator, indicating that, as far as such activities are concerned, health and life are, however, the overriding values to be protected here. We have constructed these regulations very, very rigorously. They will only be used to combat the epidemic in order to minimise its negative effects. And now I'm going to move on to the next question, which is the first one you asked the senator. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really difficult for me today to put on words for the need to develop communication. Well, we all work remotely today, kids learn remotely. As far as countries that are connected to us outside the Senate are concerned, it seems to me that at least a few people have been uncomfortable with the fact that access to the network is not sufficient. If this does not convince you, then I certainly will not be able to do it further. Please note that... I believe the senator was referring to a rule that is no longer here today. He created a lot of fear, even though he was just a regulation, because we really wanted to improve the investment process as much as possible. We absolutely do not want to eliminate individual stages, but to ensure that they do not cause unnecessary congestion. There are countries where this bureaucratic network building process, this whole decision-making bureaucracy, takes a month. In Poland it lasts for several months. And today we all want it to be faster, because this connection is very, very important. As far as the slow standing masts are concerned, how do you open the building law and find the article? 3 point 5, you will see that there are already indicated free standing antenna masts as temporary objects. We're not bringing it in today. What we're doing today is improving the assembly process. Remember, these are installations that are temporary. They can stand for up to 180 days and must meet all environmental requirements under construction law as much as possible. We're just pointing out that this is about a report. Such installations shall be installed after notification. What are we changing? This is very important and I would like you to be aware of that. To this day, before the change we are talking about, we were faced with such a situation that in order to put up such a mast, we had to make a notification and wait 30 days for the expiry of the deadline by which the authority could question the purpose of placing such mast. We've been having... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And now, as for what we've done, the deadline that the operator has to apply to bet such a mast, we've narrowed it down to three days. But the organ still has... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Let me tell you. The Authority shall have the possibility at all times Within 14 or 30 days, there are 2 procedures to question the purpose of placing such a mast. And now I want you to understand how important this is. Today, there is no situation for a city to be closed down in our country, but in other European countries such situations were. There's a city being cut off because there's a big outbreak out there, there's a lot of infections. Then the level of use of the network increases so much that this network is simply overloaded and falling, and yet there is also a growing panic among people. So what we cared about was giving ourselves the opportunity to be in a situation where... Of course, we are not predicting the possibility of shutting down cities today, we are not talking about it, but if something like this were to happen, we would have to give people access to communications. And that's what the rules are for. Remember, please, that the organ has as much opportunity as possible to question this as it had before. Then the operator will simply be required to destroy immediately. So it seems that these are, however, provisions that are very important. We have recently dealt with such a situation in the case of a material reserves base, which is in the middle of a forest in the Łódź voivodship. Turns out there's no signal, and the importance of this base is growing very strongly. We wanted to use a temporary antenna mast, a temporary installation that could be moved from place to place, but it turned out that we couldn't, because the whole procedure lasts 30 days, and by then it could already be done on 17 other, more reckless, more difficult ways. You can e.g. rewrite from one operator to another, but we don't want to do that to operators. So let me explain again: we are not eliminating any elements of the process, but we are protecting ourselves in case the networks become overloaded. Today is a very large increase in network load. All operators record it, and stationarys, and mobiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u50	Thank you very much. And I would very much ask Marshal Borusewicz to repeat his question to Minister Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u51	I'm interested in what's called a gray number in statistics. Well, the Ministry of Health publishes daily statistics on diseases. These statistics shall be taken into account either by persons who report or by persons whose illness is detected in a different way. At the same time, it is known that this disease, infection with this coronavirus, is also asymptomatic, so some people do not know that it is sick, and do not apply for treatment. The Minister of Health at the time of the previous session of the Sejm stated that there were 3.5 thousand patients, and according to the exponential function there should be about 9 000. And he also said, "This is a success." Of course, it is good that fewer people are sick than expected. But in this situation, I would like to ask: does the Ministry analyze this so-called. The gray number, which is the number of people who are sick and not statistically captured? I repeat: this number certainly is, all the more so that it has been confirmed that this disease is also asymptomatic. Is this number between that number of 3.5,000 and that number of 9,000? Did she fit in about two weeks ago? Because at the moment, of course, she's different. This question is also related to the fact that the ministry was very economical, at least at the beginning of the epidemic... Testing. ...tests. We have repeatedly pointed out that these tests are not enough. My question is: does the Ministry have any estimates of this so-called. A gray number, how many patients could it be? I'm asking because, of course, this creates an additional danger, which I think we need to be aware of.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u52	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, in fact, during the outbreak, a certain part of the population living in the territory is undergoing an infection, whether it's a flu virus or a coronavirus, in a asymptomatic manner at the moment. These are people who are sick, but do not show any signs of disease, i.e. in case of coravirus infection they do not have an elevated body temperature, do not have a cough, do not have symptoms of shortness of breath. That's what they're called. Asymptomatic persons. We just got some new messages about the disease statistics. At the moment, the patients in Poland are 7,000 582 people, i.e. those with positive results. From tomorrow, we introduce an obligation to cover our mouths and noses. This is due to the fact that at this stage of the epidemic there are patients who undergo an infection in a asymptomatic manner, and it is they who may pose a threat, that they may infect people as a result of close contact, without knowing it. The tests we're doing right now are called tests. gene tests. They have a rather high sensitivity. The disadvantage of these tests is that they are quite laborious and quite long time it takes to perform such a test, i.e. Six, eight hours. This reduces the number of tests performed. At the moment, our laboratories have the ability to perform about 20,000 tests a day, which is how many Poles we can now examine. I'm sure it'll work. This week, the first batch of antigen tests will come to us from Korea, i.e. the so-called. rapid tests. In this case, we'll be able to know the score after 15 minutes. Is that gonna be... These tests will be... I'm asking you to calm down. These tests will be performed... And did the plane... Pandemic... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. There you go. These tests will be used mainly for the rapid diagnosis of healthcare professionals, but we will also pass them to hospital emergency services, SORs, where patients with suspected coravirus infection often come, but at the same time with many other diseases and need rapid diagnostics to implement the treatment at the place where it is indicated. The number of tests that we are doing at the moment, we want to significantly increase precisely thanks to these rapid, antigenic tests. I think the number of tests performed is adequate, because compared to other countries... I think if we count the number of these tests into 100,000 people, we're going to be in the middle of the whole stake, which is the countries that are doing the tests. You can always say that these tests can be done more. But, ladies and gentlemen, the basic issue in the course of the coronavirus test is also, I think, the time during which this test is performed. Not always after direct contact with the infected person, if this contact occurs today or tomorrow or was yesterday, the test will be positive, only after 5, 7 days, during the incubation of the virus in the body the test will be positive. It's very important that we do the test. And epidemiological intelligence is very important here too. Sometimes it's because we think we might have been infected with a coravirus, it can give us a little false dose of safety, because the test is going to be negative, and in fact, we're carriers of coronavirus due to infection. So here you have to combine these two things: a lot of tests Yes, but at the same time these tests must be done to those who have positive epidemiological intelligence. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. I have a question too... I have a question... Because the Minister didn't answer my question. So you're still...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u55	Yeah, I want to say it again. Minister, thank you so much for the information you have provided... Now, Mr. Marshal... ...but I'm talking about whether the ministry has any analysis of this so-called one. a gray number of those who have not been captured. Because statistics in my opinion are capable of doing that. Do you have that analysis or don't you have it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Marshal, there's always a group of people during the epidemic who are asymptomatic. Some say it's three times the number of people we've detected infected, some say it's larger numbers. It is difficult for me to determine what the group in Poland is right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u57	Thank you. You said it could be three times more, right? So it would be more or less... That would be consistent with the exponential function that the Minister of Health was talking about, pointing out that so many people should get sick, but they didn't get sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u58	I have another question about the tests, Minister. Last week there was a lot of talk about this Polish test, which was already in production. Has the government contracted this yet? And when are these tests gonna come in, when are they gonna start testing with these tests? And how it will increase, how will it increase the number of people tested daily?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u59	Thank you for that question, Mrs. Marshal, because this is a very important question. So far we have actually only imported tests from abroad; they were Asian markets. I think in a few days we will be able to test using Polish tests. It is necessary to face Polish scientists from the Poznań center. But I also have news today that Polish tests were produced in Lublin. As these centers say, they'll be able to produce about 150,000 tests a week. So I think that in the coming days this number of tests will increase, powered by Polish production, Polish tests.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u60	Thank you very much. You're welcome to ask the question... I'm going to give you the names of three senators now because we're going to listen to different senators. First, the senator from the chat room... Senator Mieczysław Golba will be asking a chat question, then Senator Wojciech Nealny from room 217, and then Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. Senator Mieczysław Golba, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! My question will be addressed to Minister Schreiber of the Prime Minister's Office. Minister, two hours ago I received a call from one of the employers who employs over 20 employees. And he says today he had a deadline to pay a ZUS contribution. It turns out that he was unable to pay due to the loss of liquidity. And he's trying to get credit to pay his employees' salaries and to improve the company's financial situation and liquidity. And he asked me this question because the bank asked him today to provide a certificate of non-payment of taxes, as well as ZUS contributions. He says, "I didn't pay today." If I get my certificate tomorrow, what's the certificate? If I receive a certificate that I am behind with the payment of the ZUS contribution, will I receive this loan in this case? Here's the problem with getting a loan like that, so it's a problem for him. And he's a little worried about it. Hence my question: is there a solution here? Will the ZUS approach these entrepreneurs so that they can maintain their businesses, companies and liquidity? Such a seemingly simple case could cause him not to receive this loan. And that's why my question is. I'd really like an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u62	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question that I asked around 9:00 p.m. during the Health Committee. I think it's been so long that maybe the Minister can answer. I mean, the paradox that occurs in hospitals. I mean, according to the ministry, we can run about 20,000 tests, we've done a few thousand over the holidays, although our labs have a lot more ability to run tests, and patients in hospitals have been waiting for two, three days or even four to perform the test. And so I asked the Minister to see why this was happening. Why do you have to wait so long for tests when we can do a lot more? What's going on? Of course, I can tell you a thing. Some labs don't work on Christmas days, some pick up material at 2:00 p.m., and you can't drive it later, but that still doesn't explain the difference. So I'd like to know if there were any other difficulties. Can the Minister give me information as to why, in such a way as to be able to carry out the research that the Ministry gives, hospitals wait three days to carry out the study? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u64	Thank you very much. The third senator is Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u65	I would like to ask you very specifically about the provision in the article. 72 in point 13, in the part in which it gives the competent IT minister the right to request the transmission of anonymous data on the location of terminal equipment of end-users, i.e. the general authorisation. What is the function of this provision and does the government have a positive opinion of the Chief Data Protection Officer on this provision? By the way, contrary to what we have heard, the European Data Protection Board has not authorized the right to collect data from GPS as necessary, and in today's statement, it has highlighted the need to respect the fundamental principles of privacy protection during the epidemic. But I am asking about the function of this provision, the idea that has been adopted, and whether there is a positive opinion of the Chief Data Protection Officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u66	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer the questions. Good. I would ask that Minister Stanisław Szwed give the answer to the first question. The second, related to the tests, does not apply to the draft law at all. I understand and respect that this is just a voice in the discussion, a little bit next to the subject. As for the third one, I would ask Minister Wanda Buk for an answer. There you go. The answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As far as support for small companies is concerned, because this was the question formulated by Senator Mieczysław Golba, I will give you some information. As far as issues related to the exemption from social security contributions are concerned, this law, which we are now looking at, will provide the possibility for entrepreneurs employing 10 and 49 employees, will provide for the possibility of exemption from contributions of 50%. paid contributions for employees. This is also what small businesses wanted. As far as other forms of support are concerned, it is a question of how to finance the remuneration of employees employed by district labour offices. Here, depending on the decrease in turnover in relation to the previous month or in relation to previous months, 50% support can be granted in relation to the previous year. minimum wage amounts with a 50% decrease in turnover, support of 70% minimum wage, and this is e.g. the amount of PLN 2 000 100 per employee, and with a drop of 80% is PLN 2 000 700. This is another instrument. And you can also use the instruments that are available to voivodship labour offices from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, i.e. it can be both economic interruption and reduction of working time. In one case there is funding at half the minimum wage plus a pension contribution, i.e. PLN 1 thousand 533. In the second case this is the amount of PLN 2 000 500. So that these actions that we take in relation to companies, including small companies, facilitate the transition through this difficult time for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u68	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to answer the second question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, who will answer... But I already told you that the second question isn't about the bill at all, so I think... But do you think anybody could answer that to the senator? But this is, as I understand it, a debate on the bill, not all the topics we're dealing with... Yeah, but it's determined... I don't know, I can't... But that's what the Senate marshal determines... ...answer. But I would ask... Well, not necessarily. And if Minister Kraska could answer... Whether it's a question or not. ...to the Senator Necessary's question? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Does the Minister agree that Minister Kraska should answer this question? I don't have anything to say because this is a discussion... But the Minister is asking. ...whatever you want, you can drive... You're welcome, Minister. ...discussion. Well... You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You run a marshal, not a minister... Oh, come on. ...anything. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the question does not concern this law, and I regret to say that this is the next meeting when we are not discussing the subject matter of the law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But let me answer the senator's question. In fact, the holiday season is a period. and this does not apply only to Poland When these tests are performed less. We have gathered this information from all over Europe and I can say that when there were almost 90,000 new cases in Europe on a pre-Christmas Friday, on the second day of the holiday, there were only 65 000 cases found, which was definitely reduced. This was due to fewer tests performed. There have been cases where samples were actually waiting for testing in some laboratories. That's why we've set up regional coordinators to cause And they're doing it right now. In order for laboratories to have unused capacity, uglylyly speaking, these samples are less, and they can carry out more tests, send samples from these laboratories, where they expected more than a dozen hours. So I don't think there's gonna be a case that's gonna be a lab where the samples are gonna be waiting to be tested. They will simply be examined on an ongoing basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u70	Thank you very much. And the third question. Minister, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u71	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen! Senator, to answer your question, maybe I'll start at the end. I would like to quote here the position of the European regulator on: the protection of personal data, which indicates, I quote: "GDPR is a comprehensive legal act which contains provisions also applicable to the processing of personal data in a context such as that relating to COVID-19. The GDPR shall allow the competent authorities of the Member States. public health and employers for the processing of personal data in the context of an epidemic, in accordance with national law and under the conditions laid down therein. Further in this statement And this is the statement of 19 March, the regulator indicates that specific conditions must be fulfilled. So once again: these must be temporary measures, their objective must be clearly defined, access must be limited So we need to know who's gonna have access to them and what we're gonna do with this data, which is why we're taking it. And here all these conditions are fulfilled. To answer your question, what is this particular recipe for? Maybe I can further reassure you that he's talking about access to the anonymous data. So the minister responsible for computerization will be able to ask the mobile telephone operator if, as part of the provision of his services, he has located some non-standard focus on mobile terminals in some places, such as they had never been before. This will help us, as well as the crisis management team, to decide how to combat epidemics. E.g. We have recently learned that this was not information received from mobile telephone operators, but we have received it from another platform owner who simply aggregates such data. In fact, during the bans not far from here, in Powiśle, there was an assembly of more than 200 or 300 people, we assume that it was for some entertainment purpose. So that's the kind of data we're gonna be able to get through this recipe. This is not an isolated provision when it comes to legislation in Europe. Today other countries are also introducing such solutions. But first of all, remember that on the basis of this provision, we will not be able to determine who was in the place, only that something like this happened, that such a gathering of the population took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u72	Thank you very much. The following questions will be asked: Mr. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski... Mrs. Marshal... Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u73	I also asked if there was a positive opinion of the Chief Data Protection Officer on this text in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u74	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u75	Mr. Senator, we've consulted before, based on... Because there's an additional provision that says that it's not data processing within the meaning of telecommunications law. And the telecoms law still has a regime that says that operators can't process this data for purposes other than the provision of services at all. So let me say this: this particular provision has not been consulted, but this issue has already been addressed in the discussion with PUDODO. Well, we haven't had a negative opinion so far, and the recipe has been widely known for over a week.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski and Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka will then ask questions. There you go, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u77	I am directing this to Minister Schreiber... or to the Deputy Minister of Finance I see in the courtroom. And right away I'm saying I'm just asking, absolutely not accusing you of anything. I just want information on that. You have prepared a package of aid for companies and very well. But is the government preparing to some extent aid for local governments that are beginning to find themselves in a really difficult situation? I'll read about two sentences from one email in a dozen e-mails. This is the information from the mayor of Brzezin, Ilony Skipor: The planned revenue, the revenue of the city is 11 million each year. That's $900,000 a month. 1/3 of the city budget, no impact with 500+ and derivatives and 1/5 of the planned... That's the sum I was talking about. At present, the proceeds for February and March were reduced by nearly 750 thousand. And I'm not talking about a rich city. The point is, on a monthly basis, we have a decline in PIT revenues by almost half. I'm talking, of course, about the money transferred by the Ministry of Finance. In this situation, budgets of this type of local government are Sorry about the colloquialism. It's unstressable. Hence the question: is the government planning any financial support for local governments? If so, what and when are these actions to be initiated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u78	Thank you very much. Here's Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Ministers! I would like to ask you a question, but first I would like to thank you for introducing compensation for quarantine for farmers, because many farmers are affected by quarantine. Well, there's always a question after that: what happens when it's extended? 'Cause it happens anyway. Whether this will be extended because they're still in quarantine or if they're already in some kind of sick pay if they're still... Is this going to be a completely different, second element? And the next thing you know, what the president was picking up. We were very pleased and all the farmers were happy that in some part We will compensate farmers for the so-called. pension insurance. All of us, at least that's how we understood it, not reading that analytically, maybe. Only now that KRUS has announced on its pages that this part is only partial, because in fact the pension fund consists of another element, i.e. The sickness and mother fund... If this one the first one is caught and farmers will be covered, and the latter is not included. And the question is, isn't the government going to make one more change here as soon as possible after this analysis to cover the entire contribution? It turns out that this contribution, which gives relief to farmers, is calculated today I've been checking what the amount is. It's over 300 million, and the other part is over 800 million. So only the smaller one was taken into account, and the larger one wasn't. Therefore, as head of the agricultural committee, also on behalf of the farmers who are calling me, I would like to ask that we take this issue into account in a holistic way. We all understood that this part was decommitted from the whole, and this is just a part of this pension part, and that the morbidly-matrician part is not taken into account. Hence asking the government to take this second part into account and correct it, if possible, now, and if not... You'd have to... ...it's about time that the other part was included, too, because it's promised to farmers. Please support our amendment. Thank you very much... And then there's the other thing, that's the thing. It is said that socio-professional organisations will be taken into account in the context of these amendments. My question is... Because there are many laws about organizations, farmers, trade unions. On the basis of the Act on Individual Farmers, and there are a lot of these organisations, will those regulations that say... define NGOs be taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u80	Thank you very much. And Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u81	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, because the answer you gave to Senator Zdrojewski is, frankly, meaningless and meaningless, I want to deepen this question and ask you to give me a clear, clear answer. In which article, what issue, the creators' community can find information that it is also protected, like other environments, and has a government guarantee that it will have aid? To deepen the matter, I would like to say that the creators' environment are not only actors, directors of theater, film, opera, but also stage designers, dancers, they are also graphic artists, artists, musicians, etc., etc. I can still have a lot of competitions in the slogans of creativity, the creator of the trade. I ask for a concrete answer, not an answer around it, but a concrete answer, so that people in this environment can immediately find an article containing information that will satisfy them by opening a bill that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u83	Thank you very much. As far as questions are concerned, maybe one at a time. Senator Kwiatkowski is asking about local governments. Well, first things first. And for all of us it is absolutely understandable that we wanted to protect jobs, protect employers, protect Polish companies. So that these components, this crisis shield is designed primarily for these people. Well, of course, we monitor and look at the situation of local governments, there are some work and analyses going on, and perhaps there will be further solutions in the following laws. So that's all I can say for now. In this bill, as you probably know, there are no such records. As regards the question of Senator Chróścikowski, I would like to say that concrete changes are made for farmers. They concern farmers in quarantine and concern support for the agri-food sector. However, it is difficult for me to refer now to the conference, to the announcements, to what you are talking about, whether it fills or not... I take it as such a voice in the discussion to possibly think about it and expand the help here. It's the only way I can answer that, well, the time has passed. However, I understand this concern of the head of the agricultural committee. So that's it. As far as the question is concerned about the authors and the precise presentation of the article, I will give the floor to the Minister of Sweden. That was the last question, I didn't find the number myself, but the Minister will be answering here right now, especially as far as civil law agreements are concerned. At the same time, as I said when it comes to the creators' environment, there are records, there are many records, the whole set of entries in the first law, which is already adopted. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to draw the attention of the senator and all the other states that, since you're talking about someone who might get confused, you can't find the right things On the gov page. pl under the "anti-crisis" tab is written in detail for all groups, for those who have a contract for a work that has a contract-order, which have micro companies, small companies, medium-sized companies, large companies... It's written out exactly what kind of help they're entitled to. So any creator can also find the rules he needs, and any entrepreneur can also look at them in this way. It works regardless of the line that was launched at the Ministry of Development, and here the Minister could say a few words. Okay, I'll give you my voice, it's a specific article.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u84	In addition to Minister Schreiber's statement, I would like to say that in the article. 15zr are included in the parking benefits which can be used by persons working on contracts, works contracts, as well as those engaged in business activities. This is the simplest formula that a cultural worker can use as well. It may also exercise the second power referred to in Article. 31zo, i.e. the possibility of exemption from social security contributions. This is a regulation for both those who conduct business activities and for micro-entrepreneurs. These actions can be used... They are important when it comes to the individual activities of the creators. As far as institutions are concerned, they may benefit from other measures that are in the Act. What we're introducing here is the issue of a drop in turnover or the possibility of economic downtime... These entities can also benefit from all these instruments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u85	You're welcome, Senator. The senator will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u86	Minister, I didn't ask that question that someone couldn't read. nor can he find a bill just because he simply cannot find the content that is needed for full clarity. Therefore, I would ask for an extended reply on the creators in writing, and not within 1 month, only if we have a special situation and we do not know what awaits us next month, in the cito mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u88	Well, I'm the one who's committed that such an answer will be given within a period of no longer than the senate's considering this bill. That's one day. What do you mean? I don't understand, Minister. Could the Minister be more specific? Considering it was in the Senate on Thursday... I don't know when the Senate will finish the job. Well, it won't take longer than the Senate's work on this bill, which means it'll be, as I assume, six or seven days. I assume tomorrow at the latest... The bill was in the Senate on Friday, Minister... Thursday. ...therefore, within 5 days, the Minister, I understand, will provide this answer. Yes... Thank you very much. ...at a time no longer than the senate was looking into it. That's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the next senators who will be asking questions are Senator Józef Łyczak, who was in the chat room, Senator Bieniamin Godyla and Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. I ask Senator Józef Łyczak to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! My question is addressed to the Minister of Health. I would like to say that the number of diseases in Poland, calculated on the number of inhabitants and in the collision with the very wealthy countries of Western Europe and the United States, is relatively small. Well, thank God it is. This is due, above all, to the medical world, to which they owe a dozen thanks, but also to the health ministry and the Prime Minister. I and, I think, all Poles are interested, Minister, on what basis is expected It's more and more common to talk about it. That the apogee, or severity of this epidemic, will occur in two or three weeks. Not so long ago it was said that it would be during Easter, but it did not happen. The Poles, I think, expect more optimistic information from the Minister and I would ask for such information. We are all looking forward to unfreeze the various divisions of the national economy. I think it's gonna happen. At least I'm optimistic, and I believe that in two weeks the situation will not get worse, but it will improve. I ask the Minister's opinion on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Benjamin Godyla's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! My question is addressed to the Minister. I say this as an entrepreneur, not as someone sitting behind a desk, but as a practical person. It's been over a month since the pandemic was announced, and we entrepreneurs really don't know what to do. There are sectors such as gastronomy, hotels, confectionery and many others where income is zero. As I hear here... and I'm only going to talk about small and medium-sized companies. Let's leave these micro- because we know they already have some help. What do they have now, Minister, to tell those companies whose income or turnover has fallen to zero? You're only releasing them from 50%. ZUS. And where do they get the other 50%? Take it? People haven't fired yet, people have to get paid. I'm just saying it with simplicity. That's how I understand it, because otherwise it doesn't go. Why are the medium-sized companies that this ZUS has to pay? I didn't read anything else in those shields, it's just a paycheck. This activity is not going to affect those previous turnovers, even if we loosen something here. We can make 30%. turnover, no more, and 30% The turnover won't even let me make 50% ZUS pay because there are still labour costs, electricity, everything. The point is to keep these people from being fired, so let's go over it again and let's fire these ZUS companies, or else there's going to be a tragedy. It will be a tragedy for employers, employees and their families. These people don't know where to go, they're only taught to work in their companies. And the truth is, it's gonna take a long time... Even the Minister of Health himself said today that the holiday isn't really going to happen. Gastronomy, hotels, bakeries, cafes run down. Come to your senses, gentlemen. You guys didn't run a business, I don't know who put you here. You have to look a little more real here, not just from behind the desk. You slow these little ones down so there's a lot of noise, and then you say, "You guys do it, swim." I don't know what to do with it. I still have a question about the loans. Well, there's been a payment embolism. Did you start any loans to set off this blockage, loans on preferential terms, 4-, 5-year-olds, with any possibility of redemption? We as entrepreneurs for the second month are really nothing Without income, we don't even have advances to give these people anything. The tourist season is, as it was in mid-March announced, in critical condition and these revenues, such great, there was not. And they won't be there. That is why I call for more help for these companies, those industries that have really lost 100% revenue. I remember seeing the Minister of the Swede. At the family committee meeting he said: well, now it will be thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth pension. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the pensioners have some money, and I'm not saying that I would give it to them if they were, but let's not borrow it and give it away. And there's nothing about entrepreneurs... Well, you're laughing now, and you said there's gonna be a 14th or 15th pension, and I was at that committee meeting. I just wish I could. Mr Chróścikowski is not here to support this initiative by Mr Chróścikowski concerning farmers. I support this idea. Because today every farmer has been given a code of food ethics under the honorary patronage of the President instead of the money of the agitation and the President. So that every farmer who pays the KRUS today got this kind of electoral agitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u93	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Mrs. Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u94	Thank you very much. My question is addressed to the Minister of Health. I will say that I was provoked to ask this question by some provisions of this law, which I looked closely at. As I said, the law refers to many other laws, some regulations are very detailed. Some people seem to be in great concern here. I don't understand why they're being treated in such a special way. I mean, specifically, art. 43, in which it is stated that, in exceptional circumstances, cases which threaten life or health, the functioning of a scientific corporation may temporarily be suspended. We're talking about the members of the PAS here. I have doubts about this record, but not because I have no great respect for professors and scientists, but it seems to me that the statutory record that says that such people cannot meet and conduct their activities is very detailed in my mind. As someone said here before, students learn remotely, meet at teleconferences, etc. I think a group of professors can handle it very well. How does it happen, this attention to the professorship of the Polish Academy of Sciences, to the question of risking the life of medical workers, to the dislike of what it is that they are well supplied with personal protective equipment and also tested? In conclusion, I would like to ask the question that Internet users are directing. I also asked them this morning at a press conference. I'm asking for an answer. Is it true that about 1,000 tests were passed to Nowogrodzka Street by the Ministry of Health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u95	Thank you very much. I would very much ask for answers to your questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u96	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, I answer questions. Senator Łyczak's question... Well, I understand that's the voice in the discussion. It's hard for me to answer here, because it doesn't really apply to this bill. Senator Małecka-Libera's question isn't really for the Minister of Health, it's for the Minister of Science. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. As for the vote in Senator Godyla's discussion of the company's tragedy, I'll say yes. As I understand it, your question directly concerns small companies, i.e. the SME sector, the situation in which they are in, and the things that they have. Let me point out that this 50% The ZUS is just one element and it doesn't rule out everything else that's been prepared. There's a possibility... If we say that some company doesn't work at all, it's a parking issue, it's a matter of not paying the whole ZUS, it's a matter of 40% subsidies. to the employee's salary. So, as I understand it, this is more about... It's more about a company that still works. We have a number of industries. There is no time to tell everything here, but I will draw the attention of the honourable senators to the fact that the financial shield proposed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... I'm leaving the bill a little bit, but I want to draw attention to it. We are also talking about great support for this sector. Half of the money, 50 billion, is to be allocated to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The conditions for receiving subsidies will indeed be preferential here. It will be a situation in which... the recipient of this amount will receive it for three years. In the case of these companies... If the conditions are met, if the company operated before 31 December ub. r., if he pays taxes in Poland, and if, of course, he legitimizes that he employs employees, then such a subsidy will be. The subsidy for the SME sector will be at a certain percentage of the revenue from last year. If the loss is up to 25%, then it won't apply. If it's 25.50%, you'll be able to apply for a grant by now. Then you'll get 4%. revenue. If it's a loss of 50.75% It's going to be 6%. If the loss is above 75% , this grant will be 8% income from last year. That's the kind of amount you're gonna be looking for. You won't have to pay anything for the first year. After a year 25% If the company exists, it will be terminated. Another 25% it may be decommitted if the number of employees does not decrease, i.e. if there is no reduction if the employment situation is maintained. Another 25% it will be surrendered if the loss cannot be recovered within a year. So it's up to 75%. It could be decommissioned. This will be particularly relevant to those situations which, I understand, the senator is talking about. And you're just gonna have to pay 25%. It'll be interest-free in the next two years. I think it's a solution for these entrepreneurs. I hope they'll use it widely. Detailed solutions... After all, you, as a businessman who is probably active in the SME sector, have an accountant or even an accountant who helps to run all of this... Well, there are a number of different proposals. A lot depends on the industry. There are proposals for the transport industry, which is in a very difficult situation. There are some suggestions. There are also proposals for the tourism industry and others. I don't think it's about talking about every single one of them right now. So much for the answer to that question. Now I'm going to ask the Minister of Science to answer the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u97	Excuse me, Minister, but there's something else the senator would like to ask you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u98	Minister, I just want to ask you something, because we're not gonna bother each other around here anymore. I meant specifically... what if somebody has the second month of zero revenue, I emphasize: zero. And it looks like it's gonna be like this for another two or three months? Just answer me that. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u99	As I said, sir, I think the parking... No revenue... Please? 90% subsidies... Stoppers to reach for, certain layoffs, 40% salary subsidies, as I said, this subsidy that you will be able to apply for I think these are concrete solutions. I don't know, maybe Minister Swed will fill in a few important things.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u100	In that case, which you are referring to, the senator may be entitled to a 90% wage subsidy. This is the amount of PLN 2 000 700, which is 90%. subsidies. Because I understand there's no turnover in this case. The application to the county labour office must be submitted. And the U.S.S.S.? ZUS is at 50% It was what it was.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u101	Thank you very much. And the senator asked for an answer from the Minister of Health. However, I would very much ask that Minister Kraska... Because it was a question addressed to the Minister of Health... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But if the Minister could... Mrs. Senator, Mrs....
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u102	I asked the Minister because I was just following the example of art. 43... I have no objection to such an article being adopted and to protect the health and life of the professors of the Polish Academy of Sciences, if necessary. I was just asking the Minister why the Minister of Health didn't take care of the medical staff. How many tests and whether the tests were actually sent These are questions that I get here by text. People are watching us, listening and asking, and I am a representative of my region, a representative of the medical community, and I have the right to ask that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u103	Thank you. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I do not know on what basis you claim that we do not care about medical staff, because from the beginning of the epidemic we are very careful to ensure that in Poland doctors, nurses, medical rescuers, but also the laboratory staff and pharmacies are equipped with personal protective equipment. No country in the world has been prepared for such a great epidemic, and in all countries there may be shortcomings in terms of personal protective equipment. We meet these needs on an ongoing basis, we complement it, and that's why I'm surprised, Senator, that as a doctor, he puts the case in this way. As for the second question, it's nothing. I don't know that these tests have been passed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u105	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u106	Minister, I accept your answer, but I did not ask about the security measures that are lacking so far and which, as I know, come from different sources. I asked for the will to test medical personnel on a mandatory basis to ensure that there was an obligation to test them. These are two different questions, but I understand that the Minister doesn't want to answer them. Thank you. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u107	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u108	Senator, you're a doctor, and you know perfectly well that periodic testing of people doesn't always have the effect we want. We should be testing people from contact, and we should be testing them at the right time to detect this virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u109	Thank you very much. I'd like to introduce the next three senators who will be asking questions. It will be Senator Krzysztof Brejza from the chat room, Senator Magdalena Kochan and Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Brejza. Are you Senator Krzysztof? Breez can you hear us?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u110	Yes. I have a question for the Minister of Health: what is the result of fewer tests in recent days? What are the reasons why 11,000 tests were carried out on April 11th and 5,000 tests on April 14th? Second question. At the last meeting, the Minister mentioned that you were planning to purchase ventilators. Did you manage to buy such a batch of ventilators? Were they delivered, and if so, how much? The next question is to Minister Schreiber. This is about the matter of the sale by the Material Reserve Agency of 62,000 specialized masks, which were still usable. Did you make a check and do you know why the Material Reserve Agency in February, even though in January the Intelligence Agency reported a threat due to coronavirus, sold these specialized masks? And one more question to the Minister of Health, this time about the PZH case, concerning the testing in the State Hygiene Department of a group of politicians outside the circle of people actually in need of these tests. Have you received such signals that there have been cases of testing politicians outside the order and thus moving people in line after transplants or those waiting for surgery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u111	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Magdalena Loven to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'll tell you this: the record of the shield 2.0 They're supposed to correct shield 1.0 records, we're already hearing about shield 3.0, and in my opinion neither shield 10.0, nor shield 57.0 will help if the answers to questions asked by the senators are as presented by Minister Schreiber. You have no desire to deal with this matter and to deal with social problems arising from what no one really expected on such a scale. I'm thinking of the coronavirus, but I want to push it into the so-called. Shields and lightning through the Sejm and the Senate of all limp records that come to the government's mind. There's a very simple way to say I'm checking. Minister, but I would appreciate it if you'd leave your phone and listen to the questions you're asking, because I feel like you're answering most of them without actually listening to them. I hear you, I assure you. What was the reason for the government's negative opinion on the amendment to secure pensions and social workers? This is a group of the most vulnerable, elderly, ill people. 30% of the deaths were the deaths of the people who were there. I ask: why do you not want to help the nurses and carers there? Why are you against the amendment in which we provide personal anti-epidemic protection to these people? And the second question is: how do you intend to opinion on the amendment in which we ask for forgotten ones? I know the parents of the village children who closed nursery, kindergarten and school. How do you want to support the forgotten children of military servants, police officers, uniforms? That's what we're making, because we're hoping that the 2.0 shield will complement the 1.0 screen even a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u113	Thank you very much. And Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u114	Well, I must admit, a series of arrogant speeches like those presented by Minister Schreiber, I haven't heard in a long time in this room. If you, Minister, are hoping that there is a collective amnesia here, then I must tell you that you are not. We remember, we know what we were doing in the Senate. I remind you, Minister, that it was here, in the Senate, on 13 March, a month ago, that we passed a law that protected health care, workers and employers from the effects of the epidemic, a law that is still frozen in the Seym freezer. I remind you that in the Seym, the Civic Coalition club filed an identical bill on March 20th. Where did she land? Also in the seym freezer. She hasn't been processed until today. And I would also like to remind you that most of the amendments adopted two weeks ago in the Senate, among others. Fundamentally important for health, workers and employers It was on March 30, also rejected in the Sejm by your group. So who, for apologizing, is doing obstruction here in terms of support for health care, for workers and for employers? Now it's a matter of testing, and that's what I'm sending to Minister Kraska. Minister, we are asking in laws, both in previous and in order to conduct regular health testing, because we know what statistics are, and we know that Poland has one of the highest levels in terms of morbidity in health care at the moment. 30% In case you didn't know, check it out. 30% of the virus spread comes from medical facilities, various types of medical facilities. So if we don't regularly test doctors, nurses, paramedics, we're going to have the following effect: the first set of defenses is going to fall, and what's more, it's going to increase the incidence. That is why we are once again making such amendments to the Act. Meanwhile, you are telling us once again that you have tests that Poland has the capacity to test. Let me remind you that on March 18th the Prime Minister said we have enough tests, and perhaps even earlier here in the Senate, he told us I remember, it was about six weeks ago or five weeks ago. That we have 50,000 tests. Yes? You had 50,000 tests six weeks ago. Then why have you done so many tests so far, why have you tested only 156,000 people? I mean, why? What have you been doing in the last six weeks since you had 50,000 tests? Not for nothing, Minister, not for nothing Poles ask and I ask whether this is a deliberate obstruction from the power to lower the statistics of morbidity. ♪ For you ♪ ♪ And that's the last point. In the Czech Republic, which they did, they conducted 12 studies per thousand inhabitants, and thus three times as many, 6,000 were found infected. So you're right, yes, you're right to say that it's very likely that unfortunately the number of people infected with the coronavirus in Poland is three times higher than you say. What's the point of having a basic diagnostic tool? And as a doctor, you know that very well. The basic diagnostic tool, which is the test, the laboratory test, take it out of your hand and act blindly, and not precisely like any good doctor?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u115	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Minister, from the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe. If my statements in any way upset you here, I suggest we change the formula. I'll only speak very briefly at the end of this discussion, that's all. 'Cause I can see there's some kind of... Minister, I would very much ask you to answer Senator Breyza's first question. But I'd ask... I'd ask... okay. I'd ask you not to interrupt me for a reason and not lecture me. That's one thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u117	Minister, now we have questions from the senators and answers from the government representative. The Minister is... So you're gonna... Minister, allow me, I am speaking now. Please. You're the government's representative in this room. The senators are asking questions. Senator Brejza has asked questions and I would very much ask you to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u118	And I would very much ask that you apply an equal measure in your behavior... If you allow the senators to be judged by the majority in the Senate, then I would ask you to allow this kind of statement on my part as well. Because I'm not starting this discussion, and I'm not going to attack any of you personally. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I'd like to explain it to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u119	Minister, you came to the Senate to answer senators' questions... Yeah, answer the questions. Good. Please understand one thing, Minister. The state is preparing draft laws that the Senate will have to process. In the Senate, all senators would like to lean on these regulations. You know that the committee has been sitting since morning and the senators of all the political options because I allow the senators' questions of all the political options, regardless of their length, want to know what security is in this shield for society. Because I remind you, Minister, that you hired the Prime Minister, but the senators would like their constituents to turn themselves in... I know that because hundreds of voters come to me and ask questions. That's why these questions are sometimes emotional. And don't be surprised, because our constituents are also texting us emotionally, calling... I would very much ask that the Minister, as a representative of the government, answer substantively because the State is the author of this law and only the Minister can answer these questions in substance. Senators don't have to because they didn't make that bill. And I'd really like to ask you to hold back your emotions and move on... 'Cause I'm sure we're all tired and we want to finish. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u120	Thank you very much. I don't have... The Minister is right to treat everyone equally. Mr. Senator, everyone in this room is treated equally. No. I don't know how you get such ideas that I'm supposed to be guided by emotions. There's no emotion in me... Minister, please proceed to answer the questions. You're welcome. Okay, so I'm actually going to answer questions, but I'm not going to answer questions that have nothing to do with this bill. The question of the honourable Senator Breyza concerned the masks of the agency and health care issues that are not in this bill. That's why it's hard for me to say anything. I can answer in writing if the senator wishes. That's it. As for Senator Kochan's question, I answer: there is no shield of one, two, three or ten, as you stated, is an addition to the anti-crisis shield that has been presented. As for the amendments that have been tabled, as I understand from your senators, I have not yet had the opportunity to read these amendments, so it is very difficult for me to answer. But as we are familiar with your amendments, when they are available and we can analyse them, then I can certainly say whether we are able to support such an amendment or not. Nevertheless, it is the senators, as you know, who will decide which changes will be supported and which will not. These amendments are hardly presented by anyone, so they do not convince others. But this is, of course, your choice. In fact, the same goes for Senator Klich's statement, who also gave his assessments and asked questions unrelated to this bill. So I regret to say that I will not answer these questions at this point. If any of you wish a written reply, please, as I say, in a free discussion that does not entirely concern this draft law. Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u121	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Senator Lover would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u122	Thank you. I just want to remind the Minister that at today's meeting of the Senate Committee on Health at 8.00, the opinion presented by the representative of the government on the amendment on DPS employees, which was intended to protect them, safeguard them and provide them with adequate personal protection, was: a negative opinion. So don't tell me you don't know these amendments, at least the one about social services houses, because the government representative has said they're negative. Second amendment. Yes, she will be reported during second reading. I spoke in the future. I wonder what opinion you will have on this issue: to provide parental services to parents of officers, parents of farmers with children who cannot walk no nursery, no kindergarten, no educational institution. That's all. I understand that the government does not know what it thinks, that individual ministers do not know what the government thinks of proposals supplementing the offer to protect people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u123	Very briefly. Of course he does. As I say, I will not speak about an amendment I have not yet seen to be tabled. The amendments you discussed at committee meetings, where there were representatives of the government... I was in the second committee meeting, which took place in parallel at the same time. I couldn't have been to all the meetings. The government's position has been presented, as the senator says. It seems natural. As for the amendments that will be made to the bill now, during the second reading... Well, as I say, I'll be able to relate to them the moment I get to know them. From morning till hours. 2:30 p.m. We were all in the O.R. I answered all the questions at the committee meeting and I admit that the discussion was somewhat more substantive in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u124	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Brejza would like to ask an additional question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u125	Dear Minister, My question about the sale of 62,000 masks is related to this bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 46 you're amending the Strategic Reserves Act, you're changing the running of the Material Reserve Agency. It's not. Please don't say that. That this question was related to the functioning of the agency itself. I was just trying to get information on whether you've made a check and if you have any idea why this agency sold out 62,000 specialized masks. Well, no answer is also the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u127	Dear Senator, As I said, I can answer this question in writing. I don't know the details, this agency doesn't belong to me, I don't do it because I have other responsibilities. And I wouldn't want to mislead the Senate or give an incomplete answer. That is why I say that I can only answer such a question in writing. I really think everyone, especially you, because you're a senator who's actually got a lot of legal knowledge... Well, you know perfectly well that this is not connected to this bill in any way. A change made to the bill, so that it doesn't have to be presented every time to the agency's financial plan to speed up certain procedures, and what she allegedly did a few months ago, or what the agency didn't do, what market step it took... Well, it doesn't seem to be connected to this bill in any way. I'm asking you to understand. If you're asking me questions about topics not related to the bill, then I, out of respect, also to you... I'm not able to give them ad hoc answers, because I just don't have full data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. The next round of questions will be asked by senators: Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz through chat and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. You're welcome, Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'll give the minister a moment to breathe. As a humble opposition senator supporting the government's actions in this area, I would like to ask a question to the representative of the Ministry of Justice. You left, didn't you? Yes. Yes, the minister is out. Well, maybe I'll pass now, and when the Minister gets back...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u130	Okay, okay. Because I care about asking the Minister. Okay, good. Thank you very much. Then you're Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz in the chat room. Are you Senator Wadim? Tyszkiewicz can hear us? I'm here. Am I audible? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u131	Hello, Marshal! Hello, ladies and gentlemen! Hello, senator and senator! I have a question for Minister Kraska. Minister, if I'm going to support this bill, I'd like to fully understand it. I'll give you the details of the amendments, because I'm going to make amendments. I'd like to ask you about this case because I like you, I'll be honest with you, you're a minister and a senator who's quite calm, thoughtful, I thought. I'd like to ask you if there's such a concept as a good contagion? Is it fair to infect? I'll be honest with you, your speech knocked me off my feet. It knocked me off my feet when I heard that the celebrations, the famous celebrations related to the Smolensk disaster, were conducted in accordance with the procedures and the representatives of our government behaved dignifiedly, breaking all procedures. We're all supposed to be wearing masks from tomorrow, we're supposed to keep our distance, and you said that's where people behaved decently. I don't get it. So I'd ask you to explain to me if there's any concept of contagion among medical concepts. I would also like to ask you why, with such stubbornness as a doctor, you say not really why you say that health care in Poland is actually well provided, that a wide river flows to our hospitals, health care, clinics. That's not true, Minister. I have a lot of questions here. I'm not gonna read them all. I'm just going to read one question that I just got from my hospital, a big hospital, a really big hospital in New Salt, where they're asking for help, asking for additional support because they need extra protection. We're gonna make a drop, we're gonna collect money again to buy masks, goggles, caps, gloves. They even ask us for cotton masks, construction masks, and they say that suits and aprons would be useful because they're missing it. And you say once again that our health care is well stocked. And the last question I'd like to ask. You often say that we have delivered, we have provided. Minister, how is it, whose responsibility are hospitals, most hospitals in Poland? According to my knowledge, these are self-government hospitals, mainly county or voivodship hospitals. I do not know if you know, but in my small Lubuskie voivodeship it looks like a second transport is arriving, the second plane is coming to Babimost near Zielona Góra and it is the local authorities that buy equipment, buy masks, buy equipment, buy tests and ventilators to support our health care. And I keep hearing that it was the government that assured me that the government had delivered something. Then why do people make masks? Why do hospitals collect suits, whatever, or building masks? That's because they're short of equipment. Could you answer the government's role and what did the government provide, for example, Lubuskie voivodship or a hospital in New Salt? I'm asking because I don't know anything about it. What role does the government play, and what role does the local government play in the fight against the coronavirus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mark's breaking up, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u133	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, at the committee meeting this morning, I tried to persuade the senators to accept an amendment that refers to insolvency proceedings. I failed to justify this amendment convincingly enough to convince the senators of the majority. I will again propose this amendment in the course of the discussion, and I would ask the Minister to justify it, to clarify it. And I would ask you very much to take a favourable view of her by the senate majority. But the minister also had trouble justifying this amendment. The Minister wasn't here. There was no Minister of Justice, but there were other ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u134	The Minister will explain in a moment. Yeah, yeah, so you don't push most senators... Yes, the minister is here. And now we'll ask Senator Czerwinski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to a representative of the Ministry of Finance. Because he's in the O.R., right? There it is. I am referring specifically to the article. 27. Here we have a permanent right to exempt from civil law duties in the case of virtual currencies. It's about selling and swapping currencies like that, cryptocurrencies. The question is... Because this bill is an episode. She's in the middle of a pandemic, an epidemic, something to do with some trouble. Will you then maintain this release when this time of trouble is gone, or is it a change that is broader and results from a certain view of the circulation of these crypto-cryptaluts? This is mostly important for young people who do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'm asking you to answer me, starting with the first question. First you must be Minister Kraska, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal, these questions are really quite emotional. I understand, because that's the situation. But they don't, unfortunately, touch this bill that we're investigating today. I have to say it again with regret. Hospitals are indeed subject to different authorities. Clinics The minister of health, the voivodship hospitals, the provincial marshals, the county hospitals are generally subject to the governorships, i.e. the county authorities. These are lead authorities and indeed they should safeguard the needs of personal protective equipment. But because there is a situation like this, which means we have an epidemic, our government through the Minister of Health... Practically every week we send additional transports not only to single-name hospitals and infectious hospitals, i.e. to hospitals that are on the front line and where people infected with the coronavirus are staying, but also to all hospitals in Poland. There are over 600 hospitals like this. And these measures get to these hospitals, whether they're masks, whether they're HEPA masks, or protective suits, cavities. These measures are reaching. We know that they're being used up because they're disposables, and they're being replenished on an ongoing basis. And what you said to the senator that they didn't get to that hospital... I think that is not true because we are sending funds to all hospitals in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u138	Thank you very much. Please... I think you're the minister now, aren't you? Minister, I ask you to answer Senator Mark's question. I can't hear you... Inside, Minister, inside... Not on the side, not on the right, on the inside. [[Talking in the O.R.]] How about another part of the room? Check it out. Maybe in another part of the room... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the senator's chair, I think... Preferably in the senator's chair, Minister. Here, possibly, is a free government. She'd have to have a card to... There are cards... But there are no cards everywhere. There isn't. Thank you very much. Can you hear it now? Yeah, I can hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the proposed amendment, I would like to point out that the Act of 9 April 2020 introduced a specific solution, according to which, in the event of an epidemiological or epidemiological emergency, a ground for bankruptcy was created... The Act introduces a solution whereby the 30-day period laid down in the Insolvency Law is interrupted and after the outbreak or epidemic threat has ended, that period runs again. Since, in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code, the 30-day time limit, expressed in days, must be calculated in such a way that we count from the next day, this time limit will end for those debtors who were founded as grounds for bankruptcy on 13 April. I'll explain why. The epidemic was declared on 14 March and the deadline for 30 days is 13 April. If the basis for declaring bankruptcy arose between 14 March and 13 April, then that deadline has expired. The amendment has not yet been adopted and the law has not entered into force. In order to ensure the equality of entities vis-à-vis the law, it is therefore necessary to extend the benefit referred to in the Act to those debtors whose deadline has expired and the basis for declaring bankruptcy arose between 14 March and 13 April. Therefore, the amendment that says that Article. Point 44 shall enter into force on 13 April. This is about a solution. The aim is to ensure equality before the law between 13 April and the date when the law enters into force. I think that now everything will be clear for all of you as regards this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to answer Senator Czerwinski's question. A representative of the Ministry of Finance? I'd really like to ask you to... Tomasz Robaczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen! As regards virtual currencies, the regulation of the Minister of Finance of 2018 has been in force for some time as a temporary solution, which generally results in the suspension of the tax. During this period, no particularly increased work is planned on this subject. This is quite difficult when it comes to taxation, especially because there are several hundred transactions a day. Taxation would make the trading of these currencies impossible or not viable at all. Therefore, and also because, in addition, we have the situation that we have, we anticipate that this solution will be a permanent solution. This will increase legal certainty, change the legal situation, which was uncertain, which was only introduced by the Finance Minister's regulation. This will allow later, after the end of the pandemic, some in-depth work on taxing such transactions. For the time being, this is a permanent solution. The work will continue, although the matter is very complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, is that enough for you to answer? Yes. I'm giving you another three senators who will be asking questions one at a time: Senator Barbara Zdrojewska in room 217, Senator Stanisław Ożóg and Senator Janusz Gromek. There you go, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! Dear Ministers! I have a question. In fact, my question would be a question to the representative of the State Election Commission, but I do not know if such a person is in the Chamber at the moment. If there isn't, I'm asking you this question for the Deputy Minister of Justice. It's about art. The 100 that we have in the bill. This is one of the many outcasts. For interested parties: this is the site 143, Art. 100. This is an article that de facto interferes with the electoral code, i.e. We read that in some cases the provisions of the Act "The Code of Election" do not apply. So we have de here. In fact, we are dealing with the non-application of the electoral code in some cases and the replacement of this code with some strange, incomprehensible mode. There are six points here, but I will mention this point, which is the most amazing one, and which says that the Code does not apply to the drafting and management of the ballot card by the State Election Commission. There are also provisions on proxy voting, correspondence voting, issuing certificates of voting rights, etc. This is being removed, which is the de facto amendment of the electoral code, which is really blocking the State Election Commission in its fundamental and important prerogatives. There's no justification here, I don't find any justification for it. Why wouldn't the State Election Commission have, for example, determine the model voting cards and manage the card printing? I would like to ask the Minister whether the State Election Commission has been asked about these solutions and what was the opinion of the State Election Commission on this subject. I would also like to know what was the purpose of such changes, which are de facto code changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanislaw Ożog's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Ministers! Most of the questions asked in this room I'm gonna risk saying that. It doesn't apply to the bill we're investigating. I'm not gonna be original, but all I'm gonna say is, I'm gonna ask you why there are no solutions in this bill that... They're in an anti-crisis shield and should be changed. In particular, I'm talking about matters relating to local government. The anti-crisis shield contains provisions concerning the suspension of proceedings for administrative decisions, namely: the interruption of the development of spatial planning plans; the recommendation to refrain from new studies; the suspension of the procedure for the issuing of WZs, i.e. construction conditions; the suspension of the granting of building permits even in the case of buildings, single-family houses where parties are present in the proceedings. So the investment movement from the local government is practically blocked for this moment. In this room or in the committee room I said that for now the biggest investor was and is the local government. I'm very grateful. Today, this information has been given There's a lot of money to build local, local, municipal or district roads. But in this situation, and we are in the last year of the financial perspective for the period 2013-2020, plus 3 years, we should be concerned not to limit the possibility of local investment, because it is a pro-development measure. I have a specific one-handed question, but I would like to thank the government, specifically the Ministry of Development, earlier. The talks conducted over political divisions, even in this Chamber, are moving in a very good direction. Also on the side of local government corporations, local governments of all kinds, satisfaction is expressed in the process of preparing these specific solutions. It is even said that it will be an initiative, a government project, which can be called a local government. I don't mind, and I'd even be happy with the advice and the local government would be very pleased if this project were called that, it was popularly referred to as that. Only, of course, in this solution, in this next submission one cannot limit itself only to eliminating e.g. those specific records that I have spoken of as one of the few. We need to consider the issue of the financial condition of the local government. We do not know at the moment, we cannot estimate how much PIT will affect the state budget. Self-governments are very interested in this size, because half of the PIT funds that will enter the state budget will feed the local government's money. And to conclude, sir, please, Minister, for a request, well, an approximate deadline, when everyone 'Cause we're all interested. We can expect this government presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask you to ask Senator Janusz Gromek's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to thank the senator for mentioning local governments. 'Cause I'm from local government. But it's gonna be a tough situation, believe me. Looking at what's today and what's gonna happen... But I have a question for a representative of the Ministry of Finance. Have you received such a request from local governments to help local governments to, so to speak, eliminate their public budgets? Because there are sometimes very large amounts assigned, millions for things that are not the most important at the moment. Please, if you could answer, I'd be very happy. And now I'm going back to Minister Schreiber. I already told you at the committee meeting, Minister... If I were looking into your eyes and you were looking in mine, I'd see you listening to me. I already noticed one thing at the committee meeting. It's a good thing you don't blame us for not having a Senate meeting before Christmas. But, well, it was agreed with the club, with the PiS, that what's going on in the Senate is going to happen today. And I think it's like the senator's asking, and you, including you, answer, not the other way around. The senator may comment, but you're not much longer. Don't make a mistake about where you're sitting. Because you're not in the Seym, you're in the Senate. At the committee meeting, I mentioned that the most important thing is health care, economy, local governments, DPS, as the senator said here, exams, people, not elections in May or abortion. What happens if there's no revenue to the state budget? Then we'll all feel it, believe me, all of us. And teachers, and schools, and kindergartens, and self-governments, and police, and army, etc., etc. And you too, officials, because maybe you'll have to cut those salaries and rewards eventually. Now I'd like to talk about the industry that had oxygen cut off at one point. And here I have a question for the Minister, and I have a question for the Minister, too. It is an industry that provides a very large percentage of the impact on the state budget. And in local governments... Mr. Senator said about it that the local governments functioned nicely because we're self-governments. I'm talking about the tourism and spa industry, and all of a sudden, it's basically 100%. Oxygen's been cut off. And people working for tourism and spas are several hundred thousand. That's one thing. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] Secondly, there are several tens of thousands of facilities, including several thousands of facilities, which employ 250-500 people in one hotel. At our place in Kołobrzeg, one company fired 800 people at a time. In Kołobrzeg. And we're standing right now... But there's Piglet, Sopot, Twitter... and I'm not looking at political colors, I'm looking at people. What's it gonna be? It is well known that some other industries have a hard time, but not everyone has been hit so hard at one time. Some industries still have fruit harvests, harvests, etc., etc. Oh, God, they're gonna be okay. Let me remind you that the time to ask questions is one minute. Oh, okay. Your speech has been going on for a long time. I forgot you came, Mr. Marshal. I came, no doubt. Yes. Please tell us if the government is involved in this tourism, spa industry, which at some point stood like a stick in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u148	Thank you very much. This was the last question in this series of questions. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u149	Okay, but I'm gonna let you answer that question, which... It was addressed to the Minister of Justice, but I think it would be more appropriate not to raise that question. As regards these changes in the current Article. 100, which is to exclude certain provisions from the electoral code, these changes are not due to the fact that in our opinion the state committee is not to do anything, but to the Senate there was a bill passed by the Sejm. The point is not to duplicate these processes so as not to create a situation where we would lose money by spending it on an action that would be pointless. I'm talking about printing cards, printing announcements, etc. Well, it's just that it doesn't have to be done. And that's the answer to that question. There's another request for that, too. You ask these questions, and you say very often that you do not want to talk about elections. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'm just answering your questions. I agree that there are a number of more important things to talk about here. Senator Ożog's statement is an important voice in the discussion. As we have said, this work is also ongoing in the case of local governments. And as for the tourism industry... You are already Minister Niebóżak, who could possibly give an answer when it comes to local governments and this work, but it is only at the stage, so to speak, conceptually, so that we should wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u150	Minister, let me... Okay, about... Let me note, Minister, that we have listened to your comment on the Senate debate, not to any questions. No, I gave the answer. As I understand it, you are ceding this part of your competence to answer questions, to ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u151	No, no, I have answered a specific question, which concerned changes to the article. 100. It was a question about the subject. I also referred to the senator's statement, which was also, as the senator himself admitted, a voice in the discussion, and I said here that the work in local governments is ongoing. Yes, but we all heard what you said, Minister. As for the tourism industry and the specific changes that are being made here, it seems to me that the best person to answer will be the minister who has tourism under him. Yes, I'm asking you very much to respond to Minister Lowlyak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u152	Therefore, I am giving the floor to a marshal, not to a minister who is appointed by you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u153	Thank you, too, Mr. Marshal. Maybe there's only one thing I can do about it. There are so many issues here that it is normal that we, individual Undersecretaries or Secretarys of State, also take the floor as a sidekick. Actually, I'm going to repeat what I said earlier, answering Senator Kleina at the committee meeting this morning, because this question is closely related to it. We are of course aware that the situation of the tourism industry is probably the most difficult or one of the most difficult. Nevertheless, we all understand that, too, and I am deeply convinced of that. That economic policy here is subject to a policy designated by the Minister of Health, namely the fight against the epidemic. These restrictions on traveling, contacting people simply necessarily translate into the fact that this industry is the most affected. We, of course, foresee, apart from the law that has already been adopted and the one that is here... we are thinking about the next steps, the different ways of helping this industry. I was talking here this morning about this program that we're working on, about, say, a 1000+ bonus for tourism. However, I think everyone is also aware that as long as we are or are very strongly stuck in this sort of epicentre and there is a peak of disease ahead of us, these sharpenings will apply, and they will necessarily, naturally, affect this industry very much. But this is an objective reality that we all have to face. So much for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. As I understand it, government officials are no longer responding to questions. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, who is in room 217, has received a request to clarify her question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like not so much to clarify my question as to what to ask them again. I asked for an answer from the Deputy Minister of Justice, and in the meantime Mr Schreiber answered my question, or actually answered it at all, but he only discussed it. Minister Schreiber, if you don't want to answer the question... Well, you have the right to say here in the Senate that you don't know or that you don't know or that you don't understand the question. You have every right to do that. You don't have to answer inconvenient questions. But I'd like to hear the answer. I'm talking about art. 100, which is an article the government put into the law on aiding Poles during the epidemic. In the meantime, you're throwing an election thrower in here. It's an art. 100, where you suspend certain items of the electoral code and at the same time deprive the State Election Commission of certain prerogatives. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Justice what was the opinion of the State Election Commission on this subject and why it happened... Why should the model ballot be set not by the State Election Commission, but by... Who is to set the voting card model and who is to manage the card printing? Who's to decide what the ballots are supposed to look like? I ask this because we know very well that changes to the code or the suspension of certain points in the code require a completely different legal path. In fact, it should never be introduced in this mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u156	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 100th Act of 9 April actually excludes the application of certain provisions of the electoral code. To answer the senator's question, I would like to point out that this provision has not been consulted with the State Election Commission because there is no obligation for it to be consulted. The rule itself is a parliamentary project, not a government project, and it is therefore difficult for me to answer the question in so far as it is necessary to provide a justification for the exclusion of certain provisions. However, there is certainly no obligation to consult the State Election Commission on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u158	Thank you very much. I'll be presenting a list of three more senators who signed up to ask questions. These are the senators: Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, who is about to ask the question, then Mr Adam Szejnfeld and Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. I ask Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki to ask a question. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure precisely determine the time of questioning for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will admit that I am very admired for you, for how well you can respond to the draft prepared by Members. Nevertheless, I would like to ask how important the sector represented by 36,500 companies with 300 000 employees is to you, so, given families, on average, this concerns 1 million people in Poland, a sector that brings 7% to the budget. GDP, which is the transport sector, road transport, for which you have not prepared any solutions. I would like to ask what you are proposing to this sector in terms of anti-crisis solutions. I repeat, the road transport sector 36 000 500 companies, 300 000 employed drivers, i.e., on average, 1 million Poles, bringing a year 7% GDP profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. In fact, you're almost perfectly fit in time, and thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question for a minute, Senator Adam Szejnfeld. That's not gonna happen here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u161	Thank you very much. Marku, I can, I'll probably even shorten it below this ceiling because we discussed the subject I want to address an hour and a half ago and I don't want to go back, I'll be honest. I just have a request, within this limit, for a written reply, Minister. Because when I asked how the situation of entrepreneurs would be resolved, who had either failed to submit their applications to this day or paid, and they would be The ZUS contributions were entitled to release, as they will be resolved, you answered, I quote that you have such an opinion, you believe, you hope. And I do not know such legal basis for administrative decisions: I hope or have that opinion. You also said that you didn't think that the proceedings would be stopped. What I'm trying to say is that there are no proceedings going on here, and this is, as I said, an atomic solution, i.e. You didn't pay. You're out of the system. Goodbye. So I want to get a written answer, like these people, how these entrepreneurs will be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u163	Thank you very much. I want to get back to a case that concerns civil liberties. I have a question for Minister Buk. Because, Minister, the nation is watching. I even believed you, but it turns out you can't believe a member of the PiS government. I'm gonna read a text first, and then I'm gonna send you back to the bill. You, because you must have been the author of these records. Minister Buk lied. We'll have to ask for a corrigendum. There is no information in the Act that the transmission of data from operators about end-users applies only to infected persons and in quarantine. The record applies to all of them. Well, Minister, I checked. Indeed, in the article. 72, paragraph 13, here you have a weird numbering in the bill, but that's... we have an article. 11f paragraph. Two and there's a bull standing there, that's exactly what everybody's talking about. In the first part, in the mouth. 1 you only refer to the infected, and then you refer to everyone, without exception, to everyone. So, Minister, I only have one question: why are you lying?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. The next three senators who will be asking questions are Senator Mieczysław Golba in the form of a chat room, Senator Bogdan Klich and Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Senator Mieczysław Golba. Answers to questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Swede. Before I asked the first question that I actually got the answer to, and that is a very good answer, for which I thank you very sincerely, but I have a supplementary question that I want to extend to get the answer. This is about an entrepreneur who pays ZUS contributions for 20 years and who is in a difficult situation because of COVID-19 at the moment. This difficult situation is, above all, that it has lost its liquidity. Why did he lose his liquidity? He provided services to entrepreneurs from Italy, Spain, France, England as well as Germany, and there are now very serious problems and there are congestion payments. Therefore, he has a problem with paying a ZUS contribution. Today he should pay it and he didn't pay it. He's trying to get a loan, he wants to take a loan to pay that contribution. I understand that this aid, which is going to be, i.e. the reduced ZUS contributions, the parking or the 40% wage subsidies... But the point is, he, to get credit, should have a certificate from the Social Security Office. He won't get this certificate because he didn't pay his contribution today, and he asks what to do in such a situation. The point is whether there is an established government position, a speech to the Social Security Office in order to solve this problem, to help such entrepreneurs in a difficult situation. That's what I mean in particular. Is it or will it be like this, say, correspondence on the line: the government of the ZUS? You're welcome, Minister, to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. Since we have been informed of serious technical problems which prevent us from continuing at this stage, I am managing a 15-minute break after which I would like to announce immediately I will ask the representatives of the government to refer to the three questions that have been asked. We'll move on to more questions later. Thank you very much. Fifteen minutes off... Mr. Marshal... Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u167	Mr. Marshal, why don't you let the senators in this room speak up for questions? There are a few willing people... But they can't hear us in the chat room. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u168	Yeah, they just can't hear us. Oh, they can't hear us... All right, I get it. You can't hear the ministers either. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 47 to 20 minutes 03]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the representative of the government to refer to the questions previously asked. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another word for Senator Mieczysław Golby's additional question was about the Zusov issue. We talked about the arrangements for exemption from contributions for micro-enterprises, the exemptions for small enterprises, i.e. entrepreneurs with 10 and 49 employees, introduced in this Act. The contribution of 50% will be remitted here. contributions due. And yet an additional solution, which is currently in operation, gives the possibility of deferring, depreciating payments for the period from January this year. In this respect, it is a matter of the decision of the trader and the Social Insurance Institution concerned. As a last resort, repayment may also, by decision of the President of the Social Security Office, be remitted if the situation of the trader concerned does not improve. As regards the question concerning the transport industry, all the provisions we mentioned earlier concerning support from both the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund... So there's a possibility of support through economic stagnation, then there's a 50% compensation for employees' salaries. the minimum wage, plus the Zusov contribution, and this is the amount of PLN 1 thousand 536, or it is possible to reduce working time, i.e. the possibility of a surcharge of 80% minimum wage, which is PLN 2 000 80, plus a social security contribution, which is PLN 2 000 560. In addition, you can also use those solutions that are proposed in the county labour offices, and other instruments that are designed for small businesses, for single-person business activities. Of course, this also applies to transport companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. Would other government representatives like to answer other questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u171	To answer Senator Gawłowski's question, I'll say yes. I understand that the senator's intention was not to offend me, it was just a frustration connected with the thought that I might have said the wrong thing. I would also like to explain to the person who is texting you that she has not read the rules. I'm not talking here... I don't want you to think I want to manipulate. Art. 11f in the mouth. 1 concerns the question you asked the senator, and Art. 11f in the mouth. 2 concerns the question that you asked Senator Ujazdowski. And now I'm going to explain again. In the case of COVID patients and in the case of quarantined persons, the Minister of Digitization may obtain information from the telecommunications operator on the location of this particular number. That only applies to those people I've told you about now. A mouth. 2 concerns those anonymous data that we discussed with Senator Ujazdowski, i.e. data for analytical purposes, which will be provided by the Minister responsible for computerization, if he so requests. The data that's anonymous is that data... We'll get them if we ask for them if they're useful if they're needed at a given stage if we ask for them. We don't get phone numbers, we don't get names. And because we don't get it, it's hard to even talk about limiting analytical data to some category of people. I think... Is that understood now? Yes? Yes. Well, I'm very happy for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. I understood, too. This is a big achievement when it comes to digitalisation. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u173	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Marek Niebżak, Ministry of Development. I would just like to remind you, by way of a delicate addition to the previous statement by Minister Swede à by way of the transport industry, about the solution that is addressed to this industry and which will be implemented by the Industrial Development Agency within the framework of the ARP Leasing. There will be a very large amount of funding for such leasing refinancing, i.e. helping to pay leasing instalments, to say some simplification, for transport companies. As you know, car or coach fleets are usually leased. We assume that many of these companies may now have a problem with repayment, and they will be able to turn to the ARP, which will simply take over this lease on themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bogdan Klich's question, please. Then he will ask the question of Mr... Senator. Excuse me, of course, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. And now Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u175	Thank you very much. I'm gonna pull this test thread, because of what I was talking about earlier, that is, there's no good prevention, there's no good treatment without a good diagnosis and there's no good diagnosis without precise, really precise laboratory tests, in this case It's a test. The scale of propaganda, which concerns the issue of tests, is gigantic. Personally, it weakens me, I just feel weakened by the rift between what is declared and reality. The Ministry of Health said yesterday that doctors are doing too few tests. But four days earlier, the General Medical Council wrote to the National Health Fund to determine what conditions should be met in order for any doctor to order tests. So? And he doesn't get an answer. I therefore expect an answer to the question now, in this Chamber and if not here, in writing When such guidelines are issued. Because without guidelines, doctors don't know if they can get their own staff or patients to run tests. And again in a few days, they don't order tests because they don't know. And it turns out that the tests ordered are still not enough. That is why I ask Minister Kraska to declare it here in this Chamber. Now that he's said once that we've probably had three times more diseases, which means more than 22,000 people are sick... If so, I ask you to declare that every doctor has the right to order tests for himself, for staff and for patients meeting certain conditions that the NFZ must specify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u176	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u177	I'm here to see Deputy Minister Buk. Dear Deputy Minister, it is a matter of art. 11f paragraph. 1 and 2 of this bill. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 actually covers the issue of determining the whereabouts of COVID patients and quarantined persons by means of telecommunications equipment. A similar solution was introduced in South Korea, but there this type of information is to be encoded on the phone and therefore transmitted with the consent of the user. Here it is a 14-day restriction, concerning the sick and quarantined. Lips, on the other hand. 2, Minister, extends this kind of control to others and the principle is that, at the request of the Minister responsible for IT, the operator is obliged to provide such information in the manner and in the form established by that Minister. So my first question is: what does this mean in the manner and form established by this minister? If the Minister determines that in oral or telephone form, does it comply with this provision? And the general question. Please indicate to me that according to your lips. 2 and possibly also paragraph 2. 3, in a situation where the end user's consent to the processing and sharing of data is not required... Tell me the recipe that says it's anonymous, which means it's just an indication of the location and Let's assume A coded number or an indication of the location of these telecommunication devices at all. I would be grateful to indicate in this provision a security guarantee that such data which may be used for surveillance not related to the epidemic will not be used for such activities. And what's that mouth for anyway? 2. if paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 completes the need to establish contacts between sick people, the whereabouts of sick people and the location of persons in quarantine?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. The next question will be asked by Senator Joanna Sekuła in room 217. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about an article that has already been discussed today, but the Minister has underestimated it. I would like to start by asking if, in your opinion, Minister CBA is an organ of government administration. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal? Senator, I have the impression that the formula of questions is not the formula of dialogue that you seem to initiate here. Good. It's about the question... Therefore, Mr. Marshal... ...even rhetorical, which you have a minute for. If the CBA is an organ of government administration, and it is undeniably, I would like to ask why the CBA is authorised to do so in connection with the article. 97 have access through the Polish Post to the PESEL collection? And in this connection: if such a government administration requests that this data be made available through the Polish Post Office, will this be disclosed in the next step? Will it be known that it was this government administration that applied for this access through the post office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka is still enrolled in the task of the additional question. In addition, there are no more reports. Marcin Bosacki still. Senator Marcin Bosacki. I'd put a list of senators on it. And then, after these last two questions, I would ask government representatives to refer. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am pleased that you have become interested in road transport, but because we have very bad experience in cooperation with you and in cooperation with colleagues from Law and Justice and with the Sejm because of the fact that a month ago we tabled an anti-crisis shield law and, unfortunately, it was frozen. Only after a month do you draw out these amendments and submit them as your project. He's bragging that you're seeing this, but I don't think the transport companies have time to wait another month for you to make any adjustments. So today I say, "I'm checking." And I'm making three amendments. The first concerns the suspension of repayment of loan instalments and leasing instalments. The second concerns the non-payment of advances on taxes or taxes during an epidemic, epidemic or emergency period and concerns compensation from the state budget for local governments which do not receive advances on taxes or taxes and which constitute the basic income of local government units. The third concerns the extension of the deadline by the local authorities of the second instalment of the transport tax until 15 December 2020. I understand that tomorrow or today at the committee meeting, you will accept these amendments. And that will prove that you're actually interested in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Turns out Senator Bosacki signed up for a discussion, not a question. So I would very much ask government representatives to answer your questions. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister Buk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u183	Continuing the thread of the article. 11f paragraph. 2 and referring to the concerns expressed by your senator, I would point out that in the wording of the provision we have the words of the anonymous data about the location of the devices. And the words "anonymised data" are, in fact, the kind of safety valve you seem to be looking for, the senator. Please note that GDPR regulations do not define the concept of anonymity, but they are defined by the Electronic Service Act, which says that anonymity means irreversibly preventing the identification of a particular person. In other words, as a result of the anonymity carried out by the operator, it will not be possible to determine the specific data concerned. It therefore appears that these concerns are not justified. Once again, to be precise, I would stress that these are aggregated data for analytical purposes, and the form you are asking the senator about... Well, it's about the way and the form, for example. about how the operator is going to give us this data, whether by e-mail or by ePUAP, how often, in what form, how it will be encoded. And can he, orally, also by telephone? That's what I'm talking about. If the Minister... So without leaving a trail. If the Minister responsible for IT would have put it that way, of course he could have. But then the minister on the phone would receive this information, write it down and hand it over? I don't think so. However, these are large data collections, which are used for analytical purposes. Well, hypothetically, that's a situation you can imagine, of course. I talk about anonymity and calming all the time, but I also understand the senators' inquisitiveness. But where is this anonymity recorded? It's in the recipe. Where? In the mouth. 2. An operator, within the meaning of the Act, is required to provide the location of end-users during an epidemic, epidemic or natural disaster situation. Good. Thank you. It's in the recipe. That's what you explained. Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u184	Thank you very much. Would other government representatives like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u185	As for the amendments that the senator was talking about, I would stress that if they were in committee, then of course we would refer to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that government representatives have undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Krzysztof Brejza and Senator Adam Szejnfeld. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Senators in room 217, please speak to the Senator, Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Senator Secretary, please send this letter to Senator Richard Śvilski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and the senators of the sitting remotely. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This discussion convinced me that we are dealing with a law of power and power. If all that is most important comes out of the bill, it will turn out that the proposals that would respond to the existing state of Coronavirus, both in the economy and in the healthcare sector, are extremely few. I do not agree with the rapporteur that we have a lot of good records in this project. We have very little good records in this project. And we have a lot of dangerous, unnecessary, unnecessary, even curiosity proposals. Today, the Universal Theatre team calls for reflection and recognition of the importance of the moment. The world of culture is being encouraged to take seriously the current situation and, in particular, to respond adequately to what is happening. Sam is ignored in spite of appeals, including mine, for this world to notice. Here's what I'm gonna say. What amazes us is the way we proceed, the way we build laws. This is a legislative wick, without any doubt. This is a document that violates all the principles of good lawmaking, which makes it uncluttered, incomprehensible and non-transparable for the public. What dominates the project? We were expecting this to be a project that was preparing a health care aid kit. We've got the second law, too. But mostly for people, for individuals and legal entities. However, there is no de facto reference in this document to the State budget and direct State aid. What appears is the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund or the Labour Fund. I must say that my question from the earlier debate relating to the amount from the state budget contained in this document was not accidental. Well, in fact, there is no funding from the state budget. They arise as long-distance or deferred commitments, but generally all the proposals that have been made before and are now falling, which are constantly falling out of the mouth of the representatives of power, are limited by one single provision which appears here, such that these commitments are to be no more than 153 billion. There are de facto only a few dozen of them listed by Minister 11.5 billion plus approx. Three billion. If the Polish state, our economy, the state budget were in such excellent condition as it was described before, then I must say that it is pretending to help. Another thing that's very important is like a thermometer, like a barometer of what state we're in. The most important part of this project is the permissions for remote work of many institutions, taking resolutions online, taking various meetings, during which in online mode you can, in short, make up for lost time. This also shows the state in which our country is in. This shows how many things need to be deregulated to become normal on the occasion of an existing pandemic. It's not normal. Many of the elements that appear here show that the most important things are changes in procedures, time, mode. There are also redundancies of state institutions, government institutions with many responsibilities. Several pages are about this, not about helping people, but about helping the government to exempt the government from carrying out certain statutory, statutory, almost constitutional obligations, including the release of the Social Security Office from the need to send information about the status of the citizen's account. That's what I'm paying attention to. Aid issues, literal help, appear for the first time on page 64. It would seem that such help would later be on pages 65, 66, etc. Nothing more wrong. Then we have a dozen more pages on which there are government records about government, records of different powers, competences and various obligations imposed on citizens. What kind of things are questionable here? Doubtful doesn't immediately mean bad, but things that involve pushing in different election records are unacceptable and outrageous from my point of view. I'm having second thoughts myself. In some cases, the government tries to campaign at all costs and conduct elections, suggesting that it wants to free citizens from the dangers of meeting with the coronavirus. There's too much coherence, or I'm not gonna do it. I'm not I must say that I myself, when reviewing this law, paid attention to something that was crucial in the history of our parliamentarianism. I'm talking about writing a magazine or something. Here we have the state budget or the COVID Fund, qualifications or relation to employee obligations. That's the part about firing employees. They can be fired because they're not qualified, and if they're qualified... There's an orb right there. There is a record or attitude to employee obligations. It's a psychic. Numerous obligations are imposed on legal entities. In this proposal, aid will be admissible if the entities to receive this aid are subject to specific checks and checks when they fulfil certain conditions. They must prove that they bear the costs of the pandemic, even when the government's decision prohibits them from doing business. At least that's what the document says. In some cases I'm paying attention to this. The government finances itself, that is, funding certain tasks, institutes, but not from the state budget, but from those funds that are built to fight the coronavirus. Well, it's building special savings. I've already told you... The Prime Minister speaks of gross costs of 212 billion and Article. 106 We have clearly stated that this amount will not be higher than 153 billion with all other consequences. These consequences will have to be transferred to the state budget along with the amendment, but this is not the case at the moment. I have to say that the most painful thing is to pretend that you're helping, pretending to control the situation, pretending that you're fixing things or saving things. It's completely incomprehensible. I can't accept it. We've got this antonov coming in, and they're talking about him bringing 400 tons of help... In my opinion, it's completely infantile, stupid, irresponsible. All you had to do was tell me what the volume of this help was. We know what this antonov looks like, the largest transport ship in the world. That would be enough, and everyone would be thrilled. Why talk about 400 tons if, as it turns out, there are not 200 tons, there are not even 100 tons, only 96 tons? The masks are light, the aprons are light, but in total they have a large volume. It was easy to build a normal, true message and everyone would be delighted. Why lie? All the time. The same is true of the information that appears, also in this room. From time to time, there is this information: those who died had comorbidities. Most often this occurs in such a formula: most of them had underlying diseases. No one's saying that not all of them died of concomitant diseases... This is a warning, this is a clear signal to citizens that they must be careful, regardless of their health status. And the government makes these messages so as to, generally speaking, disregard... We will now have such an action to reduce the burden on the economy, to release this economy. What will this release of the economy involve? That you could go to the woods or the park or the garden. Please pay attention to the financial assistance and its essential components. This financial assistance described in this document consists of financial guarantees, loans, repayable support, guarantees, deferred leases, temporary exemptions, waivers of statutory interest and other debt instruments, exemptions from payment e.g. for services not carried out. It's not helping. The government, thus building its proposal, says: I will not only take away from you in some cases. And the number of elements that are actually built so that you can help... That's the 50%. the Zusov contribution to entities with up to 49 employees. That's all. What does the government want to achieve by implementing this law, what does it expect? More information, more power, more power, more surveillance in some cases, secure support contracts... So, the government's a pawnshop? Next: discretion in helping and sacrificing. Few of this, the possibility of changing the employment contract, i.e. changes to the labour code, with the conditions I mentioned earlier. That's not enough, in many cases the last of your own decisions... Look at the article. Point 11 (4). In addition, there are only a few forms of assistance: 2-week benefits for disabled carers - A penny? - A penny? Is it 50% or 50%? in the case of the CSOs for small and medium-sized companies, but with these limitations, the provisions that Senator Adam Szejnfeld spoke about about about introducing these meetings online. These are the forms of help. Curia. I'm not gonna name them all because it's too extensive a document, there's too much of it. We have here dentists led by the voivode to determine the deaths of the COVID, here we have the Railway Guard, who, surprisingly, has an added care to protect the health and life of people in railway areas. New: Alimentaries can pay less due to the problems caused by Coronavirus, and telephone masts can be placed without specific sharpenings. I have to say that when you look at this law, it's just that it can scare anyone or convince everyone that the government actually pretends to help, pretends to control the situation, pretends to fight the coronavirus, pretends to care about business entities, pretends to do nothing but pretend. And here's one compliment: he's faking great. And one last thing, from my point of view, is extremely important. I started with culture, I'll finish with culture. We are proud of Chopin, winners of the Nobel Prize, from Miłosz, Wisława Szymborska, recently from Olga Tokarczuk, we now honor the memory of Krzysztof Penderecki, who recently left us. However, so that there are still characters like Kieślowski, such as Wisława Szymborska, like Górecki, Kilar, etc., etc. I'm not gonna change it any further. We must take care of the youngest generation, which is already in theatres and philharmonics, and which, as a result of these decisions, practically lost the opportunity, in short, to live, to be responsible for themselves and for their families, to care for their talent. We must pay attention to them, because they have already very often incurred costs. I'm not saying that they've suffered losses, but that they've incurred costs related to canceled concerts, events, performances, broken festivals. At the previous Senate meeting, I proposed to reimburse at least part of the costs incurred for the artistic projects that actually were carried out and did not result in a pandemic because of the coritotus. But they rejected it. Today, I call once again for solutions to be addressed to people to be understood, prepared as transparent and easy to receive legislative acts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There was just a statement in which a deeper exegesis of the project was carried out, so maybe I will focus less on the project and more on what should be added to this project. Agreeing that today this project of the shield we are dealing with, i.e., contractually or colloquially speaking, the shield 2.0 often gives more hope than real help. Of course, we're waiting for the next part, which is, contractually speaking, for a shield in finance. Speaking on behalf of the independent senators, I declare that we will, of course, support all real measures to facilitate the fight against the spread of Coronavirus, giving real tools to help those affected by the epidemic. That is why, of course, we will support this bill. But we want it to be better so that these tools are even more effective, so we are proposing some amendments to this law, which, in our view, can significantly guarantee more real tools to combat this reality around us. Let me tell you very briefly about only 3 of them, for example, so that it does not happen like it happens often, i.e. that the Senate amendments are not adopted later in the Sejm. Perhaps this vote will be an element that will serve to ensure that they are also accepted in the Lower House. First of all, we are all aware that today we are looking in a special way at health professionals who are making heroic efforts to help sick and infected people. We all keep our fingers crossed so that those sick, especially those with the worst course of illness, are as low as possible. Secondly, we've already got another virus with us, unfortunately. It is a virus that destroys the Polish economy, leads to or can lead to the collapse of companies or the elimination of jobs. Of course, we support all the activities that come with the help of both employees and companies in this extremely difficult situation. There is one extremely important amendment to protect jobs in the public administration, and we often forget about it, although from the point of view of the employee who receives the salary, it is the same employer as small or large companies. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who is well aware of the specifics of an employer such as the public administration, will talk about this important amendment in a moment. Third, we're about to have another virus with us. It's the virus of human fear, the fear of people who, despite our efforts, will lose their jobs, and thus the source of their income. Whether we like it or not, in the coming months we will unfortunately have a situation which for many Poles and many Poles will involve loss of work, loss of income. In this situation, they will have to save themselves with short-term loans or loans. Despite the changes currently called. non-interest costs of these loans in Poland that is 40% , I stress: 40% , except for the interest itself. So much can be given by a person who borrows an additional sum, which is in practice more than half of what he receives from a loan company. We are talking, as I said, about additional costs, independent of interest, which each lender must pay. Senator Lydia Staroń has been dealing with this issue for many years, and the senator has been trying to help people who have fallen into debt spirals and have become victims of dishonest companies using them and their families in a dramatic situation. The Senator has prepared an amendment in this regard, which halves the so-called. non-interest-bearing credit costs. I would stress that this reduction concerns not interest alone, but additional costs. Unfortunately, there is much evidence that in the near future there is a chapter in which the number of people forced to take advantage of their offer will be large and will only grow. Therefore, let us make sure that this is done according to less burdensome rules for citizens, because the future of these companies does not need to be worried about in the near future. Fourthly, any virus can be defeated. This, of course, is served by procedures, rules, and above all by consistent work, which each of us must do, but also by every institution. Our responsibility, the responsibility of the Senate, is to make decisions that will help all institutions in their work. We must help the various institutions to the extent that, for some reason, their responsibilities are hindered. In this context, I cannot understand why the amendment, which seemed to have no financial costs and is absolutely responding to specific needs... Moreover, the government noted these needs earlier, and this is a problem with the functioning of the auxiliary units of city councils and municipalities. Well, we didn't get it done. The Senate has already tabled such an amendment on the occasion of the previous solution, because it was the government's suggestion that city councils and municipalities should work remotely, but that possibility has been deprived of the district council or settlement council. In Warsaw these are e.g. both the resolution bodies of the district council and the executive bodies, i.e. the district boards. Let me remind you that they have their statutory competences that can be paralyzed, e.g. on payment of family benefits or administrative decisions. I do not want to believe that the basis for such decisions, which are completely incomprehensible in substance, can only be the fact that among the presidents of large political cities, representatives of the option that today exercises government, probably there is no, or are, but in a very limited number. I hope that an amendment enabling the district councils and district boards to work remotely, the councils and the management boards of the settlements This is the nomenclature in parts of big cities It will be accepted this time. Let us adopt projects that solve specific problems as effectively as possible, and these amendments that I have been talking about will certainly contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Szejnfeld. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been exactly 12 hours since we've been sitting in the Senate on this bill. Before that, we were sitting in committees, then at the meeting of the High House. Those 12 hours ago I presented my extensive analysis and opinions on what is in this law. Those 12 hours, we talked about what's in this bill. Most of the interlocutors, senators speaking about the bill, not only from the democratic opposition, I also noted a few, perhaps four speeches by the representatives of the Law and Justice... These were critical assessments of this law. With regard to the solutions that would concern the economy, the economy and, above all, entrepreneurship, it must be made clear that the solutions needed are not practically here. So much for evaluation. I will not go back to what I said 12 hours ago, especially since Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski in his speech described this bill very well. I would like to devote a few moments actually only to what is not in this law, and what should be in this law and what Polish entrepreneurs expect. I would therefore like to say that in all these matters which I am about to mention, I will make amendments to help PiS, help the government, help the majority of Parliament to complete this law on these important and necessary Polish entrepreneurs solutions. These amendments will be 15. These will concern, among others, the following: such cases, although not all of which I will say in the absence of time, such as: exemption from the obligation to pay contributions to the Social Security Office needed, and there is no exemption; exemption from the obligation to pay advances on income tax on natural persons and legal persons . Needed and not; establishment of State compensation to traders in the event of the imposition by the authorities of a restriction or a complete ban on the establishment of an economic operator Needed and not; deferred payment of loan instalments and leasing instalments It is necessary, and there is no; an increase in the amount of co-financing for employment in companies at the time of so-called. parking and during reduced working time Needed and not; introduction of an obligation to pay sickness benefit by the Social Security Office from the first day of incapacity of the employee to work and not by the entrepreneur necessary and does not exist; suspension until the end of the year of the trade ban on Sunday The necessary and not necessary; the establishment of an institution of presumption of consent from the administration should be, and there is no; the restoration of the original deadline for issuing an individual interpretation is necessary and there is no exemption; the exclusion from the number of employees employed by an economic operator of apprentices carrying out practical training It is necessary, especially for craftsmen, for Polish small companies, and there is no. These are the solutions that I will make in my amendments. Further amendments will not introduce, but remove the solutions that the government has proposed and which have nothing to do with helping to combat the effects of the epidemic. In my view, they are absolutely political in nature and their main objective is to allow elections and elections to take place during the epidemic on 10 May or at another similar date. I am referring to the amendments to the article. 13, 72, 96 and 97. Art. 13 concerns the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers to establish working days. We know what's going on, why the President of the Council of Ministers wants such powers. And art. 72, 96 and 97 concern the new amazing powers that Poland's Post Office wants. I will propose to you that these articles be deleted from this law. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Please speak in remote form. You're welcome, Senator, to join us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u193	Do we hear each other? Do we hear each other? We can hear you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make an amendment on behalf of our Independent Senators' Circle concerning Article. 72, paragraph 54. It is intended to delete the following Article. 15zzzzo.15zzzx. What is it about? It really applies to all those who work in public administration. I have worked 17 years in the local government and I will honestly say that as I read this law, I have come to the conclusion that we are probably closer to the banana republic than to a democratic state, because the rules that are proposed here are really breaking all the rules, not just those of the Labour Code, and are associated with such a threat that, unfortunately, in the fight against the coronavirus, it will be possible without consequences, in fact without any rules, to release public administration workers at their discretion. Of course, there are criteria, but they are so broad and so general that in fact any public administration worker will be able to release without giving a reason. If an employee tries to protest, it will involve an automatic termination of the employment relationship. So, like I said, for me, this is a banana republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like the principles of social justice invoked by the drafters of this amendment or this law to apply to all. I have the impression that this is a public game, because when it comes to the number of employees who would be covered by this law, it is really small. Note: This law does not apply to persons performing public functions in the rank of ministers, directors of departments, etc. I'm not going to replace all the positions. This applies to civil servants. This government already at the beginning of its operation, i.e. after the takeover of power in 2015, caused people working in the civil service, people who had received excellent education and were previously protected, to be released in principle without any criteria. Well, you can also hire without any criteria. In this difficult situation in which Poland, Europe and the world are in, it is all the more impossible to allow the fight against the coronavirus to be used to make purgatory in public administration. I believe that this should not be allowed, and we therefore request that these entries be deleted, which are referring to dismissal or reduction of employment. If we were talking about a wage reduction, we could still understand that. Since the situation is difficult, a reduction in wages would be a factor, but firing workers, in fact, without any reason, in the situation in which we are in the situation, cannot be the case. This applies to civil servants, people who have acquired knowledge and education for many years, working in administration. The fact that they would be in this situation today, I can't imagine. That's why we're going to ask you to... this amendment is about removing from this bill the whole part that really concerns the freedom to fire workers. This gives rise to the real danger of the best workers being fired and new workers being employed according to the unknown key. Yeah, you can guess. I therefore request that this amendment be accepted. And I will urge my colleagues, both from our democratic coalition and from my colleagues from the PiS, not to allow these changes to be made that pose a really big threat to the freedom to fire and hire workers at their discretion. I will merely refer to the provision that, in the event that the adverse economic effects of COVID-19 will put the state's public finances at risk, in particular higher than the increase in government budget deficit or sovereign debt, etc., etc., the Council of Ministers, at the request of the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, assessed... etc. will be able to make decisions allowing the dismissal of employees. Slowing down really at the discretion, because these criteria are so general that they do not really protect anyone. I would therefore like to ask for an amendment, once again, to be deleted in Article. 72 pcs 54 of the inserted article. 15zzzzo.15zzzx. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u194	Thank you very much, Senator. Then he will speak, also remotely, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u195	Welcome back, gentlemen, for the second time. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been listening for several hours to this discussion about a law that is so important to our fellow countrymen, to our patients, to our health professionals, and I regret to say what has often been said: that the assessment of the preparation of the government, government representatives, ministers No, except maybe Minister Wanda Buk It's not enough. These people would never pass a medical exam in med school. Once again, you show disrespect for patients, health professionals, and above all for ladies and senators who have been debating here for hours. I am very pleased with one of what Minister Kraska said, namely that there will be new ultrafast antigen tests from Korea. I hope they show up quickly and they can diagnose us well. Because now we, health workers, health professionals, not only doctors, but also nurses who, as I stress, work in many places of work, are at risk, above all, to our severely ill patients. And we cannot extrapolate data from other countries here, to Poland, to say that this is done elsewhere, because these are statistics. I stress that statistics are often the enemy of the individual. And it is not the Minister who will look into the eyes of a patient who asks us doctors whether we are healthy or in danger of a patient. What are we supposed to say to our patients today? Does this law introduce regulations, guidelines, how are we supposed to behave at the workplace? What am I, as a specialist doctor, to answer to residents who ask me every day, Doctor, on what basis are we to test ourselves? I mean, it's 80%. patients are asymptomatic. And Mr. Virus Gut says it's not true when a national infectious disease consultant gives it to the public. A lie, a lie, a lie. It's not the government that protects us, it's the people, the benefactors, the local governments. Even retired people want to put 13 and 14 pensions in hospital accounts. So don't take credit for it. I'd like a little more... Because there have been many words that I also wanted to make in my speech, but I will not repeat myself, respecting your time. But I would like to thank Minister Szumowski for the applause, for the applause and for two masks for one medic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u196	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to topics that we do not talk about on the occasion of laws, so-called. shields, which I think are extremely important. Senator Zdrojewski mentioned this a little bit, but, in general, there is little talk about issues related to the state budget and the sources of funding for these various activities that are designed to prevent the economic crisis in relation to the coronavirus. On February 27 or 28 in the Senate, we adopted the state budget. There was no rush on the part of the government coalition that our amendments to this budget should be adopted by the Sejm and that the budget should be signed by the President. The President of the Budget Act only signed on 30 March this year, so more than a month after it was passed. Today, I'm talking about PiS. You're rushing us to move faster, to pass laws on the fight against the coronavirus. At the time, you didn't think it was necessary. We are here, working on the 2020 budget here in the Senate, paying attention, asking questions as to whether we should put in the budget law a special reserve needed to finance the protection measures related to the koravirus. At that time, you mocked us, you said, "There's no corodine, there's no need." And on March 23rd, a week before the President signed the budget law, the epidemic was declared throughout Poland, restrictions related to the functioning of the de facto Polish economy were introduced. We were also paying attention to those problems that relate to the 2020 budget, to the fact that there is inflation... She was huge already in January, and in February she confirmed herself. You haven't responded to any of this at all. And today, when we talk about these koravirus-related tasks, when we ask about the sources of funding for these activities... they're still out of the budget. I think it's a basic, elementary mistake that the country started fighting the coronavirus from the wrong side. The first thing that should be done... Of course, the budget should be signed quickly as soon as it has been adopted, but then you should come to the Sejm and to the Senate. I'm talking about the government. And to say this: we think about fighting the coronavirus, we think it's going to cost us so much and that's it, and we urgently need to update the budget bill. And then the public say how much really according to the rulers at this stage it is necessary to finance this very problem, which is the fight against the coronavirus. This should be the starting point. Then many things would be simpler. I'm not saying that this would solve all the problems, but it would be easier because the public would know that we agree to such a deficit in the state budget, i.e. We say that it or future generations will have to pay back this debt to society. And what did you say to that? That we have enough money that's enough for everything. Today it turns out it looks a little different. But all these declarations led to the fact that the claims are bigger, and at the same time thinking about it... well, for the state budget, the budget bill, it's still a fiction that doesn't need to be observed. Because if you say you're going to finance one or another task and it costs so many billions, so many billions and so many billions, it should be shown in the budget, it should be shown in the deficit, not in the various myths that say that this deficit will be financed differently, strangely. I think it's also worth paying attention to a few problems here. We already realize today that the result of these freezings that are related to the coronavirus will be a decline in production, a decrease in consumption, investment, exports, imports, and as a result a collapse of the tax base and, more broadly, a profitable one. Only in the second half of March And I think it's late. The government has started to work on protective measures with a specific declared financial dimension affecting the situation of public finances in general. It can therefore be firmly stated that the state budget signed two weeks ago today is an obsolete, useless piece of legislation which is not in any way compatible with the current economic and social situation. There has been no public consultation on these anti-crisis laws. This may be understandable, because time is short, but at that time it was necessary to explain to citizens the urgency of these laws which will be taken in connection with the fight against the coronavirus. At the same time, it was necessary to present how the main indicators that are included in the Budget Act, i.e. current macroeconomic estimates, revenue revenues, impact of the measures taken on the state budget and the whole public finance sector, would change. At the same time, which is also a very big threat, anti-crisis laws exclude in many cases the provisions of the Public Finance Act, liability for violation of public finance discipline, public procurement regulations. It's all very dangerous in the long run. In addition to the expected recession, the budget assumed that this year it would be 3,7% Its impact on the state budget is expected to have a direct and indirect impact on the situation of the proposed actions. According to today's state budget in 2020 we know only that this balanced budget had PLN 3.3 billion of deficit already after February this year. We don't know the results from March yet. The case is very, very serious. And February was still a month without Coronavirus on such a scale and without all these limitations. In this context, it is important that we find out as soon as possible what the state budget is like after March of this year, how it is planned to finance the measures taken under the current law, the budget law, including the stabilisation of the expenditure rule. This rule has not yet been turned off. Are there any ongoing changes in the stabilisation of the expenditure rule and the prudential threshold of this 55%? What are they... This is very important. Even in such a situation as we have today, we need to talk about macroeconomic projections for 2020 and 2021. According to the Minister of Finance, work is underway on updating the convergence programme. The government must move them to Brussels by the end of April. But we should also be informed about the situation. What is the expected impact of these actions, the expected economic situation on the deficit and public debt, of course according to the Polish and European methodology. Is this 55% threshold expected to be exceeded when it comes to debt to GDP? Does the government expect Poland to be subject to excessive macroeconomic imbalances, excessive deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective and excessive deficit procedure? What will the consequences of these procedures be for Poland? You know that we have already been in such a procedure and there have been great problems with this. The Prime Minister in the Senate said that the risk of exchange rate crisis, financial crisis, is large in Poland and therefore, as a limitation, this first shield is what we can afford. He said that not so long ago, a few days ago. A few days later, however, he mentioned the second shield, the second shield already worth PLN 18 billion. And then the financial shield is 100 billion zlotys. Well, you can't put that kind of money up your sleeve like that. We need to show you where they come from. This is showing that this from NBP, and this from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, and this from the Development Fund, is not the way to solve the financial crisis. Basically, I'm saying it again. It should be the state budget, the budget law. She is a document that binds all officials at every level. Today, the fact that there's some money coming up, strange, incomprehensible even for economists, and they can be anywhere in the world... It's a policy that leads nowhere. This is a mistake. So once again, I would like to say what I said at the very beginning: the key to all these actions should be the amendment of the budget law, the amendment of the budget law, in which the State, i.e. the government, in agreement with the opposition, with all, including the social partners, would say that we, Poland, Poles, citizens of the Republic can afford such debt, such a financial problem. Today you don't talk about it at all, and that's a problem that's really, really serious. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Sejm was in charge of abortion today. Marshal Witek spoke about the need for an election in May. We in the Senate are fortunately dealing with the only two issues that politicians in Poland should deal with today, how to reduce the number of victims of this epidemic and how to reduce the number of epidemic victims, I would say, economic. We're not just talking about a specific bill. We are also talking about state strategies in the biggest crisis since 1989. The very fact that the government is sending the so-called parliament. The 2.0 shield only 2 weeks after the adoption of the 1.0 target indicates that there is a lack of state strategy in this crisis that the government of the Republic of Poland, the PiS government, still improvises that there is no clear plan. I will start with the obvious, but in today's Poland one must repeat the obvious. To make a smooth transition through this global crisis, each country needs two things that are efficient and prepared for this crisis of health care to help the sick, and a lot of money to help workers and employers. Both of these things the Polish state today has no fault of the rulers. I do not mean to be rude, but I will remind you that for two months, in January and February, when the epidemic was coming and it was necessary to prepare for it, Mr Szumowski and Mr Pinkas repeated, also in this House, that the flu is more dangerous, that China is far away and that those who, as the Senate warned against the catastrophe, should put ice in their panties. When you had to buy masks, suits, ventilators and tests, the government sold masks in tens of thousands and bought coal. The same is true of economic preparation. When during the 4 greasy years for the global economy, the PiS government spent billions on harmful dreams, such as the digging of gauges, the lies on Mr. Kurski's television, the bonuses for itself and electoral bribery. We can see the effect. Heroic doctors, nurses, rescuers and salons work without the necessary equipment, and if they have it, it is mainly thanks to the collections of society and local governments. The real help for employees and employers is dramatically lacking in money, as granted in the Senate two weeks ago by Prime Minister Morawiecki himself. Sito 2.0 That's what you have to call it, because it's not a shield. It's a little better than almost useless screen 1.0. Sito 3.0 will probably be even better. But it's all too late and not enough. And it has nothing to do with helping companies and people to work in other European countries, such as those who managed well over the course of 4 years. Ladies and gentlemen, what must we do? In short, it is necessary to ensure that the period of closure of the country is as short as possible while avoiding the outbreak on a large scale, i.e. following the path of South Koreans, Germans and Czechs. Three things are needed for this. First of all, quick help, including massive financial assistance, medical care. It takes a lot of things here, for example. for the dignified financing of the on-calls of those who take a lot of them because I lack hands to work in health care. But first of all, we need resources for more tests, about 50,000 a day, for example, to catch up with Germany. That's why we need them. That's what Minister Kraska said today. That we have at least a dozen thousand people who walk, who have no symptoms and spread viruses. With the mass number of tests in Germany, Korea and the Czech Republic, also from cars that come up, tests are done, and in a few hours the result is... Then those who infect will have much less. Secondly, you need much more money to keep jobs, so that millions of Poles would not lose their jobs and companies would lose their jobs. Let us remember that countries that are generously supporting companies and employees today will be ready to expand again as soon as the crisis is over. Our companies, which the state almost does not help, and this is the truth, will lose so difficult markets over the last 30 years. Of course, the members of this authority say: there is no money. But the truth is brutal money for short, but huge support for employers and employees must be found. Prime Minister Morawiecki, leading for 4 and a half years the lost economic policy, today wants to reach even deeper into the pockets of Poles and Poles and Polish companies. He also wants to print money without covering, which will cause inflation, which will hit the poorest ones in particular. This isn't the way. It is necessary to withdraw from utopian projects such as CPKs or excavations to eliminate the writing byzantium on TVP and government agencies, and finally look for funding in international institutions, including the International Monetary Fund, and especially in the European Union. And that's where we get to point three. This crisis shows that Poland needs more cooperation with the European Union, on better terms and not less. The feeling on the Union grown in recent days throughout the whole camp of power from Prime Minister Morawiecki, through President Duda, to President Kaczynski's President, is not only lying, but deadly for the long-term strategic interests of the Republic of Poland. The Union has already launched more than PLN 30 billion of aid for Poland to combat the crisis, only you, I am talking to the government, must show the plan of this fight in Poland. And today we would have access to hundreds of billions of euros if we were in the euro area. This, in my opinion, should be the goal of Polish politics when the nation finally gets rid of the governments of populist autocrats. Only through wider European cooperation can we ensure that Poles and Poles come out of this crisis, save jobs and then effective economic and strategic competition with other great players in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles today must have a choice between inability with the elements of this government's madness and a clear plan to get out of the biggest crisis for 30 years. The PiS authority, which has not prepared the country for this crisis and is leading it badly during the crisis, offers only such a choice: either the long-term closure of the whole of Poland and the inevitable economic catastrophe of the country and the drama of life of millions of citizens, or the chaotic loosening of rigors and death of thousands of citizens, because health care is too weak to cope with this relaxation. In the meantime, this power goes brutally to prolong its reign through the crazy May elections. Our plan, our strategic plan for Poland, should be different. I repeat: investing in health care, aggressive testing to finally reduce the number of infections, and at that time strong, but time-limited aid to companies. Only then will we be able to start really out of this collapse in 1 month or 2 months and return to normal life. I am glad that with my work and amendments, which my predecessors spoke about, e.g. Senator Szejnfeld is now bringing this second scenario closer to the failed government laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u200	Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we might be able to sum it up a little bit. what's happened since the beginning of the year. It's been a few months. Of course, it's too early to summarize everything to have in-depth analysis, but these few months can be summarized. January. In January, there was a complete disregard for the problem. It was known that there were reports of a serious illness, about a highly infectious, dangerous disease, while our services, people responsible for the epidemiological safety of Poland ignored it. We had peace, it seemed like nothing was going on here. I would like to remind you that there were already serious outbreaks of disease in Europe. On January 15th, the dictator of North Korea closed its borders, stopped the movement, and so on, even then such decisions were made. We know that the U.S. service report was handed over to the President of the United States, who also ignored it. In any case, nothing happened in Poland in January, which could help us fight this disease today. February. February, sleep time. You knew something was going on. He was known to be a threat. On 4 February, the Senate Health Committee met, and at the end of January there was also a discussion in the Sejm, but nothing happened in February. What's supposed to happen? Well, these hospitals should be established by now, so they should be formed. transitional units should be equipped with ambulances as mazobuses. Well, everything that happens in April could have been quiet by then. In February, the country could already be prepared. I'm not talking about equipment anymore, providing hospitals with the right equipment, equipment, etc. Well, that time is lost, and it won't turn around. Then March. Well, in March there was a sudden awareness of the horror of the situation, quick decisions. For these quick decisions Closed borders, closing schools, national quarantine A positive assessment can be made. All the more so because the government certainly realized how well health care was prepared for the coming of this disease, so that the greater quarantine, the greater the limitations... Well, it made sense and meaning. And of course the work of doctors, nurses, rescuers, all those involved, self-government, administration. Well, it was serious, under difficult conditions, facing the situation. April. Well, in April... Oh, I'd like to go back to February for a while. Back then, I remind you, we dealt with things like money for television and so on, so that there were just other things that cover it up like it's a danger. It's April. Well, in April we can assess the development of the disease. We know it's growing slower than it was supposed to. We're happy for you. You can see that this national quarantine is having some effect. Of course, we are still struggling with a shortage of tests and, of course, it is very bad. That's why our statistics aren't quite real, because if we're running a few tests, we don't know exactly how many people are sick. Yeah, but if you look at what happened in other countries and compare it, you can say that we have a slower epidemic. This is an achievement. And now, unfortunately, this achievement is being imposed on politics. All these people's efforts Both those who are fighting this epidemic and those who are subject to all restrictions It may be destroyed because we have an election deadline in May. I suspect that if there were no such choices, if they were somewhere in the fall, there would be a completely different conversation, other problems, other decisions. I mean, at least the ones announced, because nothing's happened yet. We do not yet know what will be the decisions, what will happen in May, whether there will be elections, whether there will be no elections, and how it will be done. But I would like to point out here that it would be a shame to throw away, and even a crime would be to throw away this great effort that has been made, made. Of course it's some kind of policy, but... there's no way out of it, because elections are a political party and unfortunately they can overlap on our way of fighting this epidemic. That would be very bad, because it would bring an alien element to medical thinking, to epidemiological thinking. It would just be some foreign element that would spoil an equation that would corrupt thinking, create a shadow for thinking, paralyze certain decisions. And I would very much appeal to the rulers to try not to do that and to make decisions they just left in the hands of specialists. Until now it can be summarized this way, but as we will sum it up in June or July, we can already imagine. I hope that our speeches today will be effective. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make an amendment to this law on behalf of the Left. One amendment is the amendment that I tabled at the previous meeting, it concerns a law on medicinal activities, a point that allows for the commercialisation of hospitals. There was also a second point that postponed the compensation of hospital losses through local governments by 12 months. I can't change that, it's gone, let's just say it's not that important anymore. But the commercialization of hospitals as a way out of the crisis, as a way of fighting the coronavirus us as a Left simply surprises us. If one of your Senators PiS or someone from the government could make some argument that the commercialisation that has been adopted today would allow us to fight this epidemic or any other epidemic better, I would like to listen and withdraw this amendment. Global solutions generally go in a completely opposite direction, i.e. it is stated that the fight against epidemics, the epidemiological risks must be managed by the State, it must be supervised by the State, including, of course, hospitalisation, which lies largely on the shoulders of public hospitals. Private hospitals do not get involved at this time, although if they are involved, they must of course be honored and praised. And two more amendments, they're the same as the ones that were made before. Why am I putting them together? First of all, I was inspired by art. 1 the law that we are adopting today, which is: the law sets out the conditions and the manner in which we offer the support necessary for the maintenance and continuation of the business. So hospitals should also be supported. Let us remember that they also operate, have costs, suffer, and have faced many difficulties before, and now they are growing. Therefore, I repeat these amendments, the more that the 3.0 shield is probably preparing, maybe it will be 4.0, and at some point this provision will probably be introduced, the records that we are applying for, and this aid will be increased for hospitals. I just want to speed up this process and I propose that we accept the amendments now: one that says that we increase the lump sum by not less than 15% for hospitals on the network that are covered by lump sums and the second, to appreciate the employees who work in hospitals and to increase the allowance for work under these difficult conditions by 50%. I think it's time to do this, but the 1.0 shield doesn't have these solutions, but now they're necessary. I ask that these amendments be approved. They serve both hospitals and employees, as well as protect hospitals from privatisation, which, if it were a few years ago, could now make it much harder for us to fight the coronavirus. That's the reality, and I don't think you can argue with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's another time when the government puts the Senate under public opinion. It is such a way of forcing decisions that cover actions that, under the pretext of saving the economy, introduce a fatal threat to society. Let me give you a few examples. It is actually not possible to conduct an election campaign under conditions of continuous increase of infection with the coronavirus, and it is completely inhumane to encourage citizens to participate in these elections, including, you might say, the plebiscite. That is why it is outrageous that President Duda is campaigning, and it is in such a way that he reaches farmers through a kind of back door using the Minister of Agriculture. The basic question is: who paid for the printing of leaflets with a beautiful name - food ethics code? The action was launched by the Minister of Agriculture under the honorary patronage of President Andrzej Duda. You can't finance an election campaign with public money. That's the question we're looking for answers to. The second example. The granting of the right to apply for access to PESEL data during the outbreak is understandable. It's about protecting the mailmen. It is important that they know which citizens are quarantined. But the attempt on citizens' freedom is to grant government authorities, and that's what they are. CBA or ABW, the right to submit an application to the Polish Post to download data not only from the PESEL register, but also from any other collection, and then transfer them to the special services. What's the point of such an intermediary in monitoring citizens? I think it's just so we don't know that it's CBA or ABW collecting data. This is a public coup against constitutionally protected civil liberties. And the third example I want to quote. In the draft law on specific support instruments, due to COVID-19, there is a provision which allows for a reduction of posts or even dismissal in the government administration. Lawyers of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, offices serving members of the Council of Ministers and serving government administrations in the voivodship, as well as entities subordinate to and supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers, minister in charge of government administration or voivodeship, i.e. in all those bodies which are controlled by the rulers. The Council of Ministers will therefore be able to freely determine who it wants to get rid of from office. Perhaps they mean officials who disagree with them on various matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The list of speakers was therefore exhausted. For the record, Senator Józef Łyczak, Senator Alexander Szwed and Senator Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the minutes. I also inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by Senators Józef Zając, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Lidia Staroń, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Ryszard Świalski, Marek Borowski, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Marek Pęk, Marek Martynowski, Magdalena Kochan, Wojciech Klażyny, Kazimierz Kleina, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Ryszard Bober, Bogdan Zdrojewski, Artur Dunin, Stanisław Gawłowski, Kazimierz Kleina, Adam Szejnfeld. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I declare a 10-minute break and please verify that all requests and submissions submitted have been submitted by the senators. Dismissed until 9:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 34 to 21 minutes 45]] High Izbo, resume. I would like to ask everyone to take their place, as well as the representatives of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform you that all requests and submissions submitted have already been submitted. I repeat that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by the senators: Zając, Tyszkiewicz, Staroń, Kwiatkowski, Światkowski, Borowski, Zdrojewski, Jazłowiecka, Pęk, Martynowski, Kochan, Kleina, Morawska-Stanecka, Bober, Dunin, Gawłowski, Chróścikowski, Szejnfeld. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, I ask the government if they want to respond to the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u205	Mr. Marshal, we have not received these requests. We need to get to know them and then we will respond in detail to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and the Committee on Health to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I inform you senators that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I inform the senators participating in the sitting remotely that it will be possible to join the sitting session tomorrow from 9 a.m. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u207	The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Health on the consideration of the requests submitted at the ninth Senate meeting to the Act on Specific Support Instruments for the Spread of the Virus, Senate Printing No 101, will be held tomorrow, 16 April, at 8.30 p.m. in the Senate Meeting Room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-senat-09-1.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. Thank you very much, and I wish you all a good night. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 47]]
