ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u1	God bless you! Good day! God bless you. I have a request for an adjournment order to convene the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda for the consideration of a citizens' bill called popularly: stop 447. Weeks pass, the time to count the signatures attached to the bill was certainly enough. Proceed with this, and if not, please inform the Senior Convention at which stage we are with this project. From this tribune you will surely offer this project perfectly and convincingly President of the Association of Independence March Robert Bąkiewicz. The Rots of the Independence March deserved Polish independence and financial sovereignty of the Polish nation. When collecting these signatures, don't underestimate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u2	Thank you, sir. The proposal is primarily irregular. That's what we talked about at the Senior Convention. It should be submitted by the hour. 21 the previous day. Therefore, I will not put him to the vote. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition, formal proposal. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for a break in the sitting and the convening of the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda for the item: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the date of the introduction of the increases in the so-called. budget, with particular emphasis on nurses - there is no Prime Minister - teachers and officials. Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki allowed himself to comment on the nurse's salary: Nurses' salaries are significantly lower, but are compensated for the lower cost of living. Since Prime Minister Morawiecki has completely derealized himself and separated himself from reality, it is high time we heard when the increases for the budget will be presented, with particular emphasis on the nurses he was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u4	Thank you, sir. I would like to point out that there was no mention of this at the Senior Convention. Your club rep didn't say anything. The proposal is non-regular, not timely, and I cannot put it to a vote. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to interrupt and convene the Senior Convention, and to include on the agenda the information of the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, on the changes that are being implemented in the judiciary. Law and Justice have been promising over the past years that queues in Polish courts will shorten, that things will be dealt with less, fees will be lower, and the justice system will be closer to the citizen. Unfortunately, over the last few weeks, we have the impression that judges have become as close to citizens as Judge Nawatsky in Olsztyn, who at all costs tries to reduce his colleagues and his fellow judges who are trying to start a fire in the judge's chambers in Olsztyn and, above all, is trying to humiliate people who claim a constitution. Today, such a response by the Minister is necessary and the Left Club asks that the agenda be completed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u6	Thank you, sir. We discussed this at the Bureau meeting and at the Convention meeting. There is no such decision, and therefore I will not put this to the vote either. But there's a conclusion. But at the Convention meeting and at the Bureau meeting it was decided, Mr President, that this would not be the case, so thank you very much. There's a request for a recess. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance... How? I still had a formal motion. Me too. I did. Formal conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, one formal request on behalf of the club. Therefore, there was a request from the Civic Coalition, there was a request from the Left, and that's why... Yeah, I did. ...I do not allow other formal applications. One from the club. But I did. Member, one from the club. But, Marshal, I'm on a very important matter... No, I'm sorry, one of the clubs. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Your Marshal, and what point in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure says there could be one motion from the club? A formal conclusion is a formal conclusion. It doesn't have to be. Don't block the speaker. Relax, don't be nervous, the marshal is common, not just yours. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft budget law for 2020 (prints No 112, 112-A and 204). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u7	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Prime Minister! I present a report by the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget law for 2020, seym prints 112, 112-A and 204. The government... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u8	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important point. If any of you are not interested, please move your conversations to the cockroaches and allow the Member to speak in peace. You're welcome, half a minute to leave. Please, sir, we will wait a moment for the Members to leave. In the meantime, maybe I should ask you to present the messages to me by your secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Health-- hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17. Communication on the constitution of bilateral groups on 12 February. Today there will be meetings of the following bilateral groups: - Polish-Czech - hour 13, - Polish-Slovak - hour 13.20, - Polish-Romanian - hour. 13.40, - Polish-Hungarian - hour 14, - Polish-British - hour 14.20, - Polish-Italian - hour 14.40, - Polish-Singapore - hour 15, - Polish-Swiss - hour 15.20, - Polish-Moldova - hour 15.40. Last message, Minister, Marshal. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Villains - hour 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Diabetes - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Public Health - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Cascadeization of the Lower Vistula - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Children's and Youth's Mental Health - hour 15, - Parliamentary Children's Rights Team - at 10 p.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Silesian Language and Silesian Culture - hour 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Rare Diseases - Hourly 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Third Signal for Valuable Vehicles - hour 5:15 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Metropolitan Unions - hour 18, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u10	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Henryk Kowalczyk and present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u11	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget law for 2020. The Government passed to the Sejm a draft budget law on 24 December 2019. On 8 January he sent Self-correction to this project. The essence of the self-correction was to increase the educational part of the general subsidy by PLN 100 million. The first reading of this project took place on 9 January this year. After the Sejm's failure to accept the motion to reject the draft law at first reading, the draft was addressed to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit the positions and opinions of the committee, any proposals for amendments with justification. The draft was examined by the Committee on Public Finance in accordance with the timetable adopted by the Sejm Bureau. The work of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget took place from 21 to 30 January this year. The Committee on Public Finances at its meetings considered its own budgetary parts and also considered the opinion of the other Sejm committees to the extent specified by the Marshal of the Sejm of 8 January. During the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, opinions were presented on the sections of the budget discussed by representatives of other committees and correspondents on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance. Discussions were held, questions were asked and answers were given by a representative of the government and by the directors of the various budget sections. Members also received opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office. During committee meetings, Members presented the most important information from discussions at meetings of other committees, asked a number of specific questions concerning, among others. planned budgets of certain units, which enjoy great budgetary autonomy, including in particular the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, the Sejm Chancellery, the Senate Chancellery, the Ombudsman, the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Institute of National Remembrance and others. The themes in the discussion were different, but Members interested in specific issues mostly asked for a written reply. As regards the work of the other committees to which the draft budget law was intended to be examined, it should be pointed out that the Sejm committees have submitted a total of 25 opinions to the Committee on Public Finance, with the vast majority of which do not raise any objections to the draft budget law, fully accepting government proposals. A total of 537 amendments were tabled to the draft budget law, of which 139 amendments concerned an increase in budget revenue, 393 amendments related to State budget expenditure. These were mainly amendments reducing certain expenditure to finance the others identified by the applicants. Five amendments related to other annexes, there were no financial changes. The MEPs tabled 528 amendments. The other amendments were amendments to the committee. On the day of the votes, one amendment was withdrawn which concerned a reduction in the expenditure of the regional financial chambers. During the voting process, the committee received 27 amendments and the rest was not accepted by the committee. The total number of amendments not accepted by the committee was 509. The vast majority concerned regional issues, the financing of individual investments in the regions. The Commission did not accept these amendments for various reasons. In general, the committee also relied on the opinion of the government representative, the finance minister, who had either positive or negative opinions on the amendments. The amendments that have been accepted concern, inter alia, reduce the expenditure of the President of the Republic of Poland by 251 thousand. PLN, reducing the expenditure of the Supreme Audit Chamber by 5749 thousand. and the allocation of a total of PLN 6 million to increase expenditure in the special-purpose reserve item on equalisation of educational opportunities for children. The Commission also accepted an amendment reducing the expenditure of the Sejm Chancellery by a total amount of PLN 15 million to be allocated to increase the expenditure of special services. I would like to add that the amendment prepared by the Commission for Special Services on increasing the level of funding for special services has not been accepted by the committee to a large extent. Only two amendments concerning the special services were accepted. The Commission has also reduced expenditure consecutively: the Sejm Registry by 3084 thousand. zł, Chancellery of the Senate by PLN 5 million, National Radio and Television Council by 416 thousand. zł. The amount of PLN 8.5 million collected is intended to increase the expenditure of the Internal Security Agency. The Commission accepted the amendment concerning the transfer of funds of 114 320 000. PLN from the budget of the Senate Chancellery to the budgets of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This amendment was mainly linked to a change of tasks - the financing of activities in favour of Polonia has so far been the task of the Senate Chancellery. Since this year, this task has been carried out by the mentioned ministries and the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Commission adopted amendments reducing, inter alia. expenditure of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Tribunal, the Ombudsman, the National Radiophony and Television Council, the Office for Personal Data Protection, the State Labour Inspection, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the National Judicial Council. Total expenditure was reduced by 41 744 thousand. zł. This resulted in an increase in expenditure in part: the General Reserve of the Council of Ministers. The committee was also accepted by an amendment reducing expenditure in several parts of the budget: Supreme Court, Supreme Administrative Court, National Radio and Television Council, Institute of National Remembrance. Total expenditure on these institutions was reduced by PLN 50 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the increase in the educational part of the general subsidy for municipalities. The Commission also adopted three amendments reducing the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 12 million for the Environment, to increase the funding of the Regional Environment Directorates and the General Environment Directorate, by an increase of PLN 500,000. PLN was also received by the Government Legislative Center. The Commission also accepted an amendment reducing the expenditure of the National Radio and Television Council by PLN 5 million for the purpose of creating a special reserve for the Polish presidency of the Visegrad Group in the years 2020 to 2021 and the anniversary of the 30th anniversary. Visegrad cooperation. Another amendment adopted by the committee concerns a reduction of 1300 000 in the expenses of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. zł, intended for the economy of fossil deposits, including fees charged by the National Securities Deposit. The committee was also accepted by an amendment reducing expenditure in part: Higher Education and Science by PLN 100 million for the activities of the National Centre for Research and Development, intended to increase expenditure in other chapters in part: Higher Education and Science by a total amount of PLN 92 million and increase expenditure in part: The Polish Academy of Sciences by an amount of PLN 7740 thousand. zł. Annexes 11 and 14 have also been amended accordingly. The Committee on Public Finance also adopted an amendment making transfers in part: Higher Education and Science for the amount of 34 848 000. zł. The Commission also accepted an amendment reducing expenditure in Part 33: Rural development by PLN 15 million to finance wage increases in agricultural advisory centres. The Commission also accepted an amendment reducing by 1680 000. expenditure in part: Internal affairs intended to increase expenditure in part: Religious confessions and national and ethnic minorities. The committee was also accepted by an amendment reducing expenditure on the implementation of the Polish Charter Act by PLN 4.5 million, due to the lack of use of the entire amount and at the same time increasing expenditure by PLN 4.5 million in part: Aid to repatriates. The Committee on Public Finance also adopted two amendments on the reduction of expenditure on tasks to be continued, including measures to rebuild the revenue of the State budget, the Centre for Government Administration. The Committee on Public Finance also adopted an amendment by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development reducing expenditure on the fund's contribution to the financing of social support payments and rent subsidies for the Main Office of Measures, that was PLN 5 million. The acceptance of the committee was also granted an amendment which shifts property expenditure of PLN 5 million to health tasks and to the Central Integrated Clinical Hospital. Another amendment concerns voivodships. Lublin Voivodeship - shift within the total agricultural part, i.e. to veterinary medicine, to border veterinary inspections. Another accepted amendment amends Annex 6 on remuneration in public budget units. The next amendment - also an amendment to the Annex, concerning grants to the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy. It's an amendment inside the agricultural budget. The Commission also accepted the amendment to Annex 11 with regard to the financial plan of the Material Reserve Agency. It is also about the financial plans for the Solidarity Fund. To conclude by discussing the amendments adopted, it should be pointed out that these amendments did not have a significant impact on the overall size of the State budget, as the amount of State budget revenue and expenditure remained unchanged, but it should be noted that the expenditure of certain entities with budgetary autonomy has been reduced, as I mentioned. At the same time, I would like to inform you that in the committee's report, in the compilation of minority proposals... The amendments tabled, which were not accepted, were mostly tabled as minority proposals, on which we will vote when considering the budget law in the plenary room. In this compilation of minority proposals, the report (the bell) revealed a typographical error by skipping the number 188 in the continuous numbering of minority applications. All the applications submitted were included in this compilation, only one numbering error. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the draft budget law for 2020, together with the positions forwarded by the relevant committees and having received an opinion on the compatibility of the project with European Union law, requests the adoption of the attached draft budget law for 2020, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u12	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 117 and 9 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ministers, It's not long now. The draft state budget, which was submitted to the Sejm, is - as I have repeatedly stressed - a historical project because it is balanced. Revenue and expenditure of PLN 435 340 million were accepted. Of course, this means achieving a balanced state budget. State budget revenue will increase by 8.3% compared to expected implementation in 2019, including tax revenue by 6%, while expenditure will increase by 4.6% and their share of GDP will decrease by 0.3 percentage points and reach 18.3%. Of course, this increase in revenue is another effect - this is another year in which you can see this effect - sealing the tax system. The increase in budget revenue will also be influenced by favourable macroeconomic factors and by the continuation and introduction of new measures to further seal the tax system as well as by measures to reduce the burden on PIT. As we have repeatedly stressed, basing GDP growth mainly on domestic consumption caused by significant transfers to the community, the growth of gross domestic product in Poland is stable and very resistant to foreign fluctuations. As you can see, there is a significant decline in GDP growth in different countries. In Poland we do not notice such a process. This is precisely because GDP growth is based on internal consumption, and this internal consumption was possible and the increase in domestic consumption is possible thanks to huge social transfers such as 500+, a significant increase in pensions and many others. This is why Polish families are much richer, so they spend much more. This growth in GDP is very stable in this respect. As in previous years, the 2020 budget also provides resources, inter alia. for the 500+ programme, which from 1 July 2019 already covers all children up to 18 years of age without income criterion. There are also funds to finance a supplementary benefit from the Solidarity Fund for persons unable to live on their own. This is extremely important and this is the implementation of a declaration towards a group of people with disabilities. There are also additional cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners, so-called. 13, although these are not 13 for those who have large pensions, but are 13 for those who have the lowest pensions. So this is the help addressed to the poorest groups, which is important here for the part of pensioners who have the lowest pension. There are also guarantees for family benefits, which are expected to increase the amount of the care allowance from 1 November 2019, i.e. expenditure going back to 2020, and there is also an increase in the income criterion that is entitled to benefit from the maintenance fund from 1 October 2019. In addition, a one-off payment of 4 000 benefits is also envisaged. zł together with service costs for the implementation of the Act on support for pregnant women under the There are also funds for the payment of supplementary parental benefits for persons who have raised at least four children and who have had no chance of earning a pension corresponding to at least the lowest pension for long-term care of their offspring. There are also funds for the implementation of the government's "Good start" programme, for the valorisation of pension benefits with an index of 3.24% Whereas - I stress this - the minimum increase in pension benefits will be at the level of 70 PLN, so once again very clearly you can see how the government cares especially about those groups that have the lowest income, because 70 PLN is of course much more for these retirement groups than 3,24%. But also in a very important way... I have heard here in formal cases a request for information on the increase in salaries in the budgetary sphere. It is this budget that provides for a general 6% increase in salaries in the budgetary area. We remember a time when these wage increases were frozen, so for many, many years the budgetary sphere did not receive any funding, no increases. 6% , so much more than GDP growth than inflation. This is extremely important and I think that this question and this formal conclusion was completely unnecessary. Just look at the 2020 budget to find an answer to that. There are also financial resources for subsidies for free medicines, special purpose foodstuffs and medical devices and under the Senior+ programme. We are also very consistently implementing an increase in national defence spending limit, which is extremely important because of our security. It is because of the increase in this limit that we are a very reliable partner for the United States and a very reliable ally within NATO. But there are also funds to finance the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire and State Protection Service, and the Prison Service, i.e. those programmes that have continued since 2017. It is also important to increase spending on higher education, science or housing or transport infrastructure. I would like to mention, for example, the programmes concerning the Roads Fund, local roads or the announced investment plans for road investments, the 100 bypasses, as well as railway programmes announced last Friday... For 10 years. ...which have accelerated a lot over the last few years. This is a feature of the Law and Justice government that has not forgotten the development of the railways, has resumed new connections, eliminated in previous years. To sum up, it is worth stressing that the draft budget for 2020 reflects government priorities, electoral commitments. It will provide funding for the basic functions of the State while maintaining the sustainability of public finances. Of course, the Law and Justice Club will make a few more detailed amendments, I would even say that on the scale of the budget small, but ordering this budget in individual individuals. These will not be important amendments, rather amendments covering the amount of several million zlotys, ordering and detailing the different solutions. It's cosmic. So a few of these amendments will still be tabled during the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u14	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mrs Izabela Leszczyna to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Vice Minister! To begin with, I will quote a few sentences from the interview given by the director who worked 23 years in the Department of Macroeconomic Policy at the Ministry of Finance, which is the department that provides all the necessary data and without which it is impossible to simply draw up the state budget. What's important, this director wasn't fired, he left alone, because the other PiS ministers stopped believing the data, the economic facts, the numbers, believed in the propaganda of Prime Minister Morawiecki and floated in the fumes of absurdity that you promote at the election parties' rallies of the PiS. Director Dudek says this: I believe that the sustainability of public finances is at stake. If the deficit in the financial sector without one-off income is to be 2,2% this year And the economy is still on a cyclical mountain, I think it's a very dangerous phenomenon. The director further notes: VAT gap in 2019 was reduced by just PLN 300 million, although the government assumed an amount of 7.5 billion. That means it's been made by 4%. The plan. The improvement of VAT collection in 2019 was de facto not the case. Is this some kind of classified data, or has someone committed a treasonous state secret here? No. It was enough, Mr Kowalczyk, to read the budget with understanding, preferably with justification, and then you would know what I was talking about here in the first debate, that there is no 52 billion PLN in this budget to cover all expenses. Do you know why the VAT sealing is over? There are several reasons. The ideas and recommendations of the Civic Platform, which Minister Szalamach received in 2015 ended... Good jokes. ...because the only idea you had was 25 years in prison for tax frauds. You just forgot to add: we don't put our own, because so far, all the big tax fraud is going your way. [[Applause]] Banasi. Banasi. A clear example is the VAT-owska Mafia in the Ministry of Finance. Second reason. You threw all the best people out of the finance department and out of the IRS, or you completely pushed them away from making decisions. Others left alone when they saw what you were doing with public finances and with the Polish state. As a result, there is chaos in the National Tax Administration as described in the true report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was cleared by Marian Banasia of the toughest charges. And at the beginning, Banas wrote himself a laurel that has nothing to do with the real content of the NIK report. As the director said in the interview, the tax bill's over. The fear is, of course, that under the pretense of fighting global companies you will start pressing entrepreneurs, especially medium-sized ones, and this would be a nail to the coffin of the Polish economy. But if I know you, you'll really do it because you don't really care about what's really important to Poles and Poles. This budget is proof that those who said there was no money for your promises were right. You have fulfilled two of the many promises. At what cost? There is a shortage of money for health care, education, public investment, decent pay for resident doctors, teachers, court workers and officials. In order to pay for this budget somehow, you even had to rob people with disabilities. You have destroyed the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. [[Applause]] Lie! You have demolished the fund, which consists of wealthy Poles just for the disabled, not for your apanasia, not for Minister Wosia's salary, which they fired from the minister's position with a salary of 10,000. And in three days they accepted with a salary of 20,000. to the post of attorney. That's your country. And in NBP, 50,000. for an assistant. And the state is here to provide people with treatment, prevention, education, clean air, a friendly environment. It guarantees us a constitution. That's what you're here for. 500 PLN is not enough for private school, for private doctor. Good school and good health care are a duty of the state and are to be paid with public money, because that's why Poles pay taxes. [[Applause]] You wanted privatisation. $1,000. zł once a year will not solve the problems of pensioners and pensioners, because the situation of seniors requires a systemic solution, which has not been in place for 4 years. And there's not a dime in this budget either. Then why did you want the privatisation? This budget is proof of what Prime Minister Morawiecki told you four years ago at the party meeting that there is no money for 500+. You guys were the ones talking. Moravian spoke. Today there is still no money, because this budget is simply lacking for everything. You know what that means? This means that the chaos in hospitals, schools, courts, only there for another reason, will simply deepen in 2020. Word Armageddon. After all, four ministerial heads worked on this budget, and we do not really know who to accuse and who should be responsible for this economic bullshit that you dared to bring to the Sejm of the Republic. The minister Czerwińska started working on it, who ran to the National Bank of Poland, continued Marian Banaś and ran to the Supreme Chamber of Control, then he was, at the same budget all the time, Minister Kwieciński. Where did he go? PGNiG. Scandal! Finally, the minister - I must remember his name, after all, once in our life we saw him - Kościński. This one runs to London, to the bank. Do you even have a finance minister? Where is the anti-inflationary, countercyclical package in this budget? How could you leave poor Poles behind in such a difficult economic situation, about which, I do not know, or you do not know, but it means that you are ignorant, or on which you close your eyes and simply pretend that nothing is happening in the Polish economy and in Polish public finances? The cheating of this budget is not only bringing tens of billions out of the budget, it is still different, probably worse for Poles who will feel it very strongly in 2020. This further serious fraud is the tax that you have imposed on every dollar that Poles will spend in 2020. For every penny. Do you know what tax this is? Inflationary tax, which is your cost plus. And here's the only real plus you've got. Minus the wallet. It was enough to plan revenue and inflation-indexed expenditure at 2,5% , at least in December Ub. R. Food has travelled. Do you know how much? 7%. The most expensive in all of Europe was in Poland. In Turkey a little more, but Turkey has been having problems with this for decades. 7% , not 70. What's the effect? For the government, it's pure profit, but for Poles it's drama. The government's gonna pay for anything less than it should, and it's gonna raise more than he planned. Who's gonna pay for this? Us. As in this commercial: you pay, you pay, and you, Mr. Cymanski, will pay, too. But Mr. Cymanski has a European pension, no tax. The PiS government deceived Poles in the 2020 budget in a scandalous and unprecedented way. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, you are, above all, interfering with your clubmate. In December, the finance minister, even the one-legged man in London, knew what inflation was like. He knew what the inflation forecast was. That's why he's got the macroeconomic department. They came and told him. Everyone changed their predictions, from Washington to London to Brussels. Only the PiS hasn't changed. Because PiS is okay with it: fooling Poles, cheating, because you have this genetic fraud. [[Applause]] Again. What's the effect? Even less money: for treatment, for education, for prevention, and raising the salary that President Kowalczyk boasted about will be eaten by inflation. You're not gonna give anything to these officials, really. They're gonna eat all that inflation. That's not true. You know... Do you know how much pork she used last year, sir? Twenty-30%. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And don't talk about ASF, even though it's your fault, because in other European countries it didn't. [[Applause]] Sure... Then why can't they and you can't? And do you know how much butter it's made? 40%. By 40% Spent the butter. You know what that means? That the value of 500+ measured by the purchasing power of this product is just, today is 353 zł, not 500 zł. PLN 353. Don't be provocative. In order to mitigate these fatal consequences, especially for the poorest Poles, we will, of course, make amendments that will be discussed in detail by Mrs Zofia Czernow. Finally, the question is: You know what is a great cause, the source of all the problems you have caused to the Polish economy, which the government of PiS and the majority of the Seym PiS brought about the Polish economy? The source is the lack of respect for the PiS for work. You don't respect work. [[Applause]] You pumped demand and discouraged people from working. This is a serious sin. The Polish economy, every Pole and every Polish woman will pay a very salty punishment for this. And they wanted more. Under unfavorable circumstances, the government of PiS Poland will be responsible for stagflation, the worst possible... Scenarios. ...scenarios. You know what that means? The economy is down and inflation is rising. And Glapiński promised that he would not move his feet until the end of his reign at the National Bank of Poland. And he's right. He's probably just gonna raise his pay to two principals. She's got a look at Gryka. The first symptoms were in the fourth quarter of 2019. We had a real decline in GDP by the quarter. We're on the verge of a technical recession, which is when two quarters in a row, a quarter to a quarter of GDP is negative. The script we've been talking about from the beginning, unfortunately, is starting to work. The summer of the grasshopper is over. You know what the only hope is? That in May Poles will understand what you are doing to them, what you are doing to our country, and will stop it from your madness, which is dangerous for our homeland, for every Pole and for every Pole. [[Applause]] And they'll choose the liberals...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u16	Thank you very much, Member. Now I ask Mr Tomasz Trela to speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u17	Dear Marshal, The absent Prime Minister of Morawiecki! Mr Kaczyński, absent! Finally, Mr Kościński, absent! I'm sure you're familiar with the story of Pinocchio - a wooden boy whose nose grew when he wasn't telling the truth. It's the same with you guys. When I look at what you're doing with the budget, the more you make it up... What are you doing? ...the more you grow - the better the budgetary situation is on paper, the higher the results are in the tables. There is only one major problem - you will not pay people to work on tables, and you will not build or extend on the paper of a working hospital. Exactly a month ago, we talked in this room about the draft budget. The Left then made it very clear to you and showed you what the problem is. Marshal Vladimir Czarzasty calculated your mistakes - what is missing, where the holes are. You had a month to make it better -- a month. And you haven't done anything at all. We still don't know where you're going to finance the construction of the apartments -- you promised them 200,000, and you built 900 for four years. Only 900 apartments within the framework of this great program of building cheap apartments for rent to Poles and Poles. Tough beginnings. Very difficult, sir. Recently, as you know, I have the pleasure of running Mr. Robert Biedron's electoral staff. Robert Biedron as president of the city of Słupska for only 4 years, for one term, renovated and put into service nearly 500 apartments, and you for 5 years, having all the apparatus of power, money, officials, these visions and concepts, built 900. 4 years - 500 apartments in which the citizens of Słupska live and the state - 900. At this rate, you'll have your own plan in 220 years. 220 years is needed... Well, that's all they have to do... ...to realize this idea of 200,000. Apartments, although most of them won't. But that's mean, I think. Polish society is getting old, people don't want to have children. But can young people be surprised? You like to wipe your mouth with the word "family," but how can young people start families if they can't afford their own apartment? Since over 200,000 are missing in Poland. places in daycare, and most of them can't afford private care for children? You know, not everyone's lucky enough to become Vice Minister of Law and Justice, although I'm looking at the size of your government, I think there's probably not a lot of people left. The truth, however, is that if you could, you would simply legally order the Polish to have children. But maybe for once, instead of forcing everyone to do everything, you'd try to encourage someone to do something, for example. By offering state support? You still didn't lift a finger in spite of our appeals and warnings to save indebted hospitals. There are dozens of them all over the country. Last year most people died in Poland since World War II. They were dying in line at the S.R., in line with a specialist. And you don't care. 14 billion zlotys of debt, 50,000. missing doctors and over 400,000. death last year - this is the Polish reality today. But you're absolutely not interested. Another thing - eliminated rail and bus connections in small cities. Where's the transportation money? 14 million people have no way of getting to school, work or doctor every day because you don't want to do anything about it. Where are those PKS you promised yourself? Prime Minister Morawiecki symbolically took pictures on the bus. Where are those PKS? Where are they taking our citizens? The legacy of the Left's rule. Where are the PKS, sir? They will return in the next campaign to the Sejm - you promise them again, as usual in the next election. What about environmental protection and energy transformation? You like to talk about it lately because you've learned to repeat after the Left. But now that you're talking, let's make it a minimum of action. Where's the money to counter the drought that everyone has to overpay for their food and the farmers fail? Where is the money for real air purification that poisons Poles and Poles, most in Europe? Only one man benefits from your environmental policy. He doesn't even live in Poland. Who? This is Vladimir Putin, from whom you buy tons of coal. And how much. These are the real beneficiaries of your budget bill. Scandal! Vladimir Putin and his coal companies, priests and bishops, colleagues of the President in companies of the Treasury, their relatives and acquaintances. Your propagandists are earning money on TVP and the Polish National Foundation. He's making some I.P.N. and some of your C.B.A. friends who are wearing illegal wiretaps. The same CBA, from which 15 million zlotys recovered by Mrs. Kasia in the commercial disappeared. Yeah, where are the millions? Money is on them, on people without competence and experience, but on them with party cards, legitimacy of Law and Justice. This is the new elite of your time. Spicy. It's gonna be rough. Everything's true. Out of line. We know who's profiting from it. The question is who's throwing themselves into this budget. Who will pay for this so-called. The balanced budget you're bragging about? Retired people who worked hard their whole lives before 1989 and after this year, retirees who have been denied benefits by one repressive law. A whole bunch of pensioners, pensioners, who today, instead of enjoying the fall of life, have to look at every coming day that is barely ending today. Hundreds of thousands of Polish pensioners, our parents and grandparents live for less than 1 000. PLN per month. For less than $1,000. PLN per month. Do you even know what $1,000 is? A month's worth of zloty? 30 PLN a day. You spend more a day in a Parliamentary restaurant, ladies and gentlemen of Law and Justice. We've lowered our parliamentary salaries. What law and justice? It's an insult. People with disabilities who reach into their pockets to patch up the Solidarity Fund are thrown away. As if it weren't enough for you to try to humiliate them and force them during the protests during the previous term. The face of this protest was your messenger, Mrs Krynick. We all remember her disdainful face when she ran away from the parents of children with disabilities. Notabene shows your M.O. well. Mrs. Krynicka, the symbol of your contempt for people with disabilities, has been verified by the voters. She didn't get into the Polish Sejm. What did you do? You gave her a position in the Voivodeship Hospital in Łomża without a competition. It's a little weak. This isn't a guy anymore, it's just a normal human, piss-faced impudence. Retired people and people with disabilities are not the end of your list of disgraces. Teachers and all budget workers, resident doctors, court officials, officials who live for a scandalously small amount of money for your grandfather's governments are also paying your budget. And they're the ones who save our country with their daily hard work. They're the ones carrying it on their shoulders. Clearly, you've got something wrong - the budget isn't from budgeting. We all drop off, paying more and more for shopping, because prices have been rising fastest in almost a decade. Bills are growing, too. Poles will pay a dozen more this year for electricity. In some cases, they will pay several times. more for garbage exports, and at that time extreme poverty is growing in Poland. Now people living in extreme poverty have almost 0.5 million more than in 2017, 90,000. The extremely poor are children, 90,000. living in extreme poverty. And in your day? So-called. Left? That's what it looks like today. You're doing well, the rest of you, not really. You take the poor to give more to the rich. You create prosperity, but only for the chosen, for which we all pay. Who wrote this to you? Ladies and gentlemen! We've been telling you all this for months, talking about the budget debate a month ago, but to you it's like a wall, blood in the sand, quoting a classic. We on the left believe that certain things, such as. the welfare of citizens, are a value above the party divisions. That's why we did this job for you. The Left has tabled 149 amendments on many areas to the State budget for 2020. And as she ruled, she didn't do anything. To finally rebuild the state you've been destroying since the beginning of your reign. Return to the Poles and Poles the dignity that you take away from them every day. Nobody's done anything, everything's piss. What did you do? You rejected all the amendments, no discussion, no debate on one. You threw it in the trash without a moment's thought, because you're guided by the interests of your own party, not the interests of the people you were supposed to serve. You rejected Marcelina Zawisza's proposal to increase funding for healthcare. So you rejected people - they'll still die in line. They will continue to look at closed hospitals and travel several dozen kilometers to another city for surgery or surgery. We've been traveling around the country a lot lately, talking, visiting. We were in Częstochowa, where we visited the hospital where you closed down the key troops. We were in Grudziądz, where the city has no investment and development for years, because it must constantly resuscitate the debt of PLN 0.5 billion Regional Specialist Hospital. We were in Nova Ruda on Sunday, where the residents protested the suspension of the internal disease squad because there was no doctor left to serve it. Now the sick will drive 20 km to Kłocko. The crown wouldn't have fallen off anyone's head, not a representative of the Ministry of Justice, if he had come to New Rudy to help solve these problems. Since we were there, you could be there, too, but none of you are interested. You preferred to sit in comfortable offices in Warsaw. It's your choice, but if it is, then why are you here? Why are you in charge? Why are you taking responsibility for Poland? You rejected the proposal to increase funding for child psychiatry. Today there are only 300 specialists in this field in Poland, and you have not changed much in this area. A few days ago, the media wrote about a 14-year-old Victor who committed suicide because there was no one to help him on time. A legacy of decades. At present, suicide is one of the most common causes of death of Polish teenagers. And these are your consciences. That's your problem. That's your problem. It wasn't before. Let's move on. You rejected the amendment by Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bard to fund the teacher's raises, although you publicly started a spiral of contempt against them. You promised to raise their salaries, but you didn't secure the right money in the budget. Who? A well - paid and rested teacher is better care for young people. You rejected the amendment by Mr Krzysztof Śmishek on the raises for the judges' assistants, to whom you pay your hunger salaries today. It is up to these people to work, and not to fight in the justice system, that it is up to them how long the Poles will wait for the judgments of the courts. Like the PiS, like the real law and justice. You do not want to restore police stations, as requested by Monika Pawłowska and Andrzej Rozenek. You do not want to spend more money on the exchange of cinderellas, although Mr Przemysław Koperski has presented you with an appropriate plan. You are talking about the fight against communication exclusion, but you are deepening the communication exclusion by rejecting the Left's amendments when it comes to buses and repair of railway lines in Silesia, Lubusek, Wielkopolska. Today President Andrzej Duda drives around Poland and wants to win elections, promising huge infrastructure investments. Here we go. Let's check it out. You rejected the amendment by Mr Robert Kwiatkowski because you did not want a new bridge in Toruń, which the inhabitants have been seeking for years. Andrzej Duda promises 100 bypasses across the country that the PiS government is about to build. You remember the slogan: 100 bypasses per 100 days of the government, and yet you rejected 65 opposition amendments concerning the 65 city bypasses. And today is the 87th day of your reign in this term of office. But of course these are not the only examples. You rejected the amendments regarding investment in my beloved Łódź. You don't want to renovate schools, you don't want to renovate Poznań Palace. Hundreds of cities and towns, millions of Poles and Poles who live in them, are waiting for your support, but all you do is put more and more burdens on them. You like power. President Kaczyński loves to pull strings. You want to decide everything, but you are afraid of responsibility for these decisions and simply throw them on others, on Polish local governments. This is why they add PLN 24 billion each year to your cost-free deformity of city education. That's why local governments are keeping hospitals that you can't hold. They are the ones who now have to deal with the chaos of the new waste disposal regulations. During that time, you took five billion from their PIT. How much did they get? Today you should all thank the whole government warmly, kindly to all local governments in Poland, because only thanks to them is our country still holding on. It is thanks to them that we do not have complete chaos, collapse in health care and education. Thank them. I thank them from this point of view for saving us from the rule of law and justice. You're manipulating. The best way to thank them is to grant them the funds they deserve. Art. 167 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland says: local government units are provided with public income according to their respective tasks. Since you are pushing all responsibility towards local governments, since they are saving Poland from your incompetence, raise the revenue from taxes that go to local governments instead of taking it for yourself. The Left signed such an agreement with local government officials last year. More tax revenue for Polish local government, for Polish local government. It won't be that easy with the Left. We have tabled these amendments as minority proposals and are making further proposals on behalf of the whole parliamentary club. They concern air protection, road and rail repairs, investment in culture, increased financing of GOPR and TOPR, the State Labour Inspection. This will be a test for you. The left throws you the escape wheel again. Will your hand shake when you have to choose: your own comforts or kindergarten, your pension. Hungry or keeping your beds in hospitals, IPN or fighting cancer? You've been talking about a sustainable budget for a long time. You're bragging about him everywhere. What is balancing in this budget of yours is the greed of your activists with the number of unsolved problems of Poles and Poles. When 90,000. children more live in extreme poverty, you talk about a balanced budget. When people die in the S.R.s, you have the nerve to talk about a balanced budget bill. When hundreds of thousands of pensioners live for less than 1,000. A month, you say you agree. That's right in your tables, except people aren't tables. Someone who's worked hard all his life, can't afford drugs, and you're crashing, literally, in a government limo. That doesn't mean it turned out to be zero. People's well-being isn't the statistics or the balance in the register. Or propaganda. Prime Minister! Minister! What you've proposed isn't even creative accounting or party buffalo. It's just a disgrace. All these amendments, which the Left tabled, were intended to solve the specific, burning problems that Poles and Poles face daily. All these amendments proposed by the Left were intended to finance an area in which the State under your rule did not demand. Health care, education, housing, public transport, poisonous air - in all these areas your country has either withdrawn or is in reverse. You're rerouting. You're supposed to get off your knees, and you're running off with your tail between your legs. You have neither the idea nor the political will to fix everything that's not working right now. You probably realized that health care or education are more difficult areas than staff exchanges in ministries or Treasury companies. There you have to have knowledge, competence and experience, and here all you need to do is be a pharmacist's assistant and a minister's assistant. You have a tendency to forget, too. Do you know what a country is called that can't provide efficient public services that can't take care of people's well-being, efficient courts, hospitals and schools? PRL. The country in ruins. This is a country in ruins that you spoke so loudly about five years ago. That's why I congratulate you. After five years, you have succeeded in fulfilling this one promise. You haven't solved the issue of franc credits, reprivatizations or tax-free amounts. You haven't improved health care, justice. Your budget is exactly like this. The only beneficiaries of this budget are you, your relatives and friends, and they all have them. That is why the Left will not support this budget, but at second reading he will make further amendments and then, I hope, Mr President, who listens so much to my speech, nods, gets along - Mr Cymanski - although he will get acquainted with them... I'm Vice, Vice... ...he'll stick to them and maybe he'll back them up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But he can't do anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u18	Thank you very much, sir. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Czesław Siekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! President Kowalczyk spoke about how to work on the budget. Indeed, we have heard reports and information on the opinions of the various committees, but their comments were largely not taken into consideration. With regard to today's budget presented by your Member, it is basically no different from the original proposal - only a few amendments which had the approval of the government majority have been accepted. Among these maybe more serious amendments is taking money from the Senate to Polonia and Poles abroad and moving them to various resorts, so at the disposal of the government. The budget does not take account of the current economic situation and, above all, the economic slowdown that is taking place. The budget is balanced, but how? There's been a deficit beyond the budget. The budget deficit is cleverly decentralised, resulting in increased spending of local governments. They are required to additionally finance tasks for which there is no government subsidy. The balance of the budget has also been achieved through one-off receipts, this year's receipts. So the key question is: What will be the budget balanced in the years to come? This is the first year of the term of office, and it would be necessary to look in the long term. It is a pity that this perspective was lacking in the presentation. There will be no 17 billion from OFE or 7 billion from NBP next year. This last income is actually a paper income, as a result of exchange rate conversion, so if there's a situation that the course will be unfavorable, what are we gonna do, return that money to the NBP? There are additional revenues from free emissions - these measures were intended to modernise the energy sector in order to improve the situation of this sector in terms of its impact on the climate - or 5G auction funds. There are more examples of how to balance the budget. Of course, lower PIT works for the benefit of citizens, but it hits local governments. This loss of resources for local governments should be balanced. As far as 500+ is concerned, this 500+ is actually 350 PLN, because we know what inflation is, we know what the cost increase is. There is also no certain promotion, some support for entrepreneurship, for investment. The investment is extremely low, so the budget is not of a developmental nature. The budget is consumer - I understand that, because then VAT is not to be refunded, it goes to the budget, but you have to think about the future. The problems of the franchise were also not solved. There is a problem with ensuring, as I will say in a moment, stability in the agricultural sector. Colleges are financed by bonds, which increase the debt of the budget. Also Polish Waters are financed by credit, which must also be returned later. So this budget does not guarantee financial stability, it does not guarantee the sustainability of public finances. The cost was said to increase the costs in terms of garbage, the increase in energy. Food prices were mentioned. We do not know why the possibility of introducing a digital tax, which has been introduced by some countries such as Italy, Spain, Austria, has not been taken advantage of. You know, we were somehow under the influence of some important politicians from the United States. Services are expensive: from hairdresser to doctor, ZUS contributions are increasing, so these social benefits, so needed, so expected, 500+, 13th pension, are actually being significantly reduced. We maintain too much subsidies for coal energy, actually an average of 6 and 7 billion a year. As far as RES funding is concerned, in 2016 it was about 3 billion subsidies, in 2018 it was only 1 billion. So you have to compare how much was given, how much was taken. We have actually forgotten about housing, and we know how important it is to stabilise young people, to stay in the country. So that these social actions, which are supposed to serve demography, but are not active actions to improve demography, which is related to the future, financing in terms of financing future pensions. Also missed... The teachers were treated after their stepmother, they were ignored. The cost of the increase is borne by local governments. It's the local governments that have to give up building roads, various investment expenses, to finance teachers' wages. So it's not a secure budget, it's not a development budget. This is an artificial one-off balance, and you have to think about the future. Finally, if you look at expenditure in national defence, it is cleverly put in many civilian expenditures. Of course, it's good, because we'll explain ourselves to NATO, but at the same time there's no... These investments, which we carry out, raise many concerns, because they do not give priority to the transfer of know-how to the Polish economy when it comes to purchased equipment related to our defence. Finally, when it comes to the most important problem at the moment, which is extremely important, there is a climate problem, a drought problem. This has an important impact on the situation of farmers. So here we need more investment in water management to conduct a rational policy, a policy that would give us a chance to develop agriculture, but also civilizational development, because water is the factor that affects it. If I'm talking about agriculture, there's too little spending on veterinary medicine, which determines the quality, the ASF. There's too little money for counseling, for science. So the lack of these developmental elements, i.e. transfer of know-how, of this transfer related to innovation, with this modern development of the country's economy. So it can be seen if you look at what is happening in the whole educational system, as example are the teachers mentioned by me when it comes to educational reform. Self-governments carry out the obligations imposed in relation to the whole infrastructure for education, but there is no implementation of these wage obligations. Hospitals have been forgotten. After all, the debt of hospitals is for more than PLN 15 billion, and all this determines the safety of the society, about this health safety, about the safety which is extremely important for Poles. Therefore, in these amendments which Mr Protasiewicz will present in a moment, we are about to increase the educational subsidy to improve the situation of teachers, to remove the burden from local governments. We are also talking about an anti-smog program or a national programme to combat cancer, but also about funding when it comes to the salaries of nurses, doctors or the entire budget. It is also worth mentioning that too little money goes to internal roads, which are often linked to the functioning, with the development of these small local communities in the countryside. So the budget doesn't take into account development needs. It is a budget that prefers consumption, looks at one year's perspective, it is not a forward-looking, developmental budget. I think it's worth it to realize that. I know that there are elections this year, that it is necessary to allocate some financial flows in some way to the voters, but this is not thinking about the future of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Janusz Korwin-Mikke, on behalf of the Confederate Circle, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago someone told me, "Why are you speaking in this Seym, throwing pearls here in front of pigs?" I say: No, these are not pearls, they are information from the first year of economic studies, of course prewar, elementary truth, and not from pigs, but from unhappy people, people trapped in democracy. I remember when I was an MEP 30 years ago, you had to go through the dining room tonight, people at the tables said, "Sir, come and have a drink with us." You speak so beautifully, we would like that too, but we can't, because they won't choose us. And you're all saying the stupid things you're saying, because if you don't talk to them, they won't pick you. You're unhappy people. You have socialism, which is a system in which the budget is total. In a normal country, the money from the roads goes on the roads, and they can't go to the railroads because they have to go on the roads. If the budget is total and it is allowed to shift from one department to another, then the whole of Poland becomes a cluster of people who are arguing about money. Let's take the pensioners, let's give them the invalids or the other way around. Let's get the railroads, let's get the roadcars. Let's get the pensioners out of here. Let's get the invalids out of here. The whole of Poland is arguing because there is a large budget. Then the money goes to the big budget, and then everyone struggles to choose as much as possible from this budget. Unfortunately, it's an irreparable defect. As long as it is, tfu, democracy, or totalitarian system, that's what it is. You're talking nonsense, for example. Your highly venerable Isabella Leszczyn says it's very bad that these benefits corrupt people, but in a moment she resents that these 500 have turned into 350. Well, now that the benefits are corrupting, how did they get smaller, it's probably good, not bad, isn't it? Yeah, well... But it's about sixes. You can't cheat. Yeah, of course, we have to fight like that, right? You also said, and it is true, that this fight against tax collection from large companies will end with the fact that they will collect from small companies. That's the truth. But it was 150 years ago that the Count Alexander Fredro said: Socialism to Everyone Equal He's gonna rub his nose. He'll strangle the rich tomorrow and the poor the day after tomorrow. And that, of course, must be the case. Honourable Mr Henryk Kowalczyk believes that if more is spent, less will go to investment and more will eat, then GDP will increase. This is obviously not true, it is an element of economics. But that's what you have to say, you have to bribe the voters, you have to bribe these groups of voters, those groups of voters, and you're bribing them. It's a flaw that's irresistible until we change the system, there's nothing you unhappy people can do. And now to conclude, I have one brief remark. Namely, it is scandalous that the main budget could not be discussed - expenditure on the military budget, i.e. expenditure on F-35, at the meeting of the National Defence Committee. The money was spent without discussion. No discussion. I will not discuss it in detail, I think other colleagues will say it, but it is indeed scandalous that we spent money on equipment that is not particularly needed in Poland and which may be blocked by Americans at all if it is used not as Americans want. This is not a sovereign state policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Janczyk will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We treat the Polish state as a long-term project. As a big, stable, long-term project. And this budget is an illustration and proof of such an approach to the Polish community and to the values that we present. We have presented a budget, which is a very responsible document in which the rules of responsibility for the subsequent years of the state's operation have been laid down. And bringing a balanced budget to the hall here, for the first time, we take even greater responsibility for future generations of Poles, because the deficit means even more sovereign debt, and any further gold spent on the payment of interest on the over-billion-dollar debt of the Polish state would hinder development in the coming years. We do not want to indebt the Polish state. We come with such a budget and this is only possible because we have improved the tax system. When we took over in 2015, VAT revenues amounted to 123 billion. There are 196 billion in this project, i.e. 73.5 billion more than it was when we took over the government. The income from CIT increased by 16 billion, at the same time from PIT - by 21.5 billion, the income from excise duty increased. Thanks to this, it is possible today that we are talking about a sustainable budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the whole debate and at the first reading of this draft budget and during the work of the Committee on Public Finance. There have been many proposals on how to improve the situation of cities, people, how to spend money, only that each time the source of these funds was indicated in an enigmatic way. And the claim that some of the amendments have been rejected is at source one big question that has almost never been answered: how to secure the new revenue of the state budget in order to achieve such, often justified, legitimate, necessary objectives. And the Government of Law and Justice of those goals, which it ambitiously adopted, had had a great deal and all of them, in terms of electoral commitments, in the previous term of the Sejm. And today we move on and we want to generate more promises to which we will keep our word. Ladies and gentlemen, responsibility for governance also reflects amounts such as the increased debt of public finances. In the years 2005-2007, during our governments, it increased by only 60 billion, and now it increased by 105 billion after 4 years of government, from PLN 95.9 billion to PLN 1064.3 billion. If we counted these amounts, it would appear that this increase is less than the amount of interest that we had to pay on liabilities that had been incurred much, much earlier in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the fact that, in fact, the amendments which are addressed to the budget law, as well as the opinions on the state budget, including the President of the National Bank of Poland or the Monetary Policy Council, do not make any significant proposals for changes to the basic assumptions regarding inflation rates, unemployment, GDP growth. Both the National Bank of Poland and the Monetary Policy Council in their last opinion emphasize the fact that these assumptions are rational and can be maintained, according to current knowledge, in the current market situation, which is quite complex and difficult, as we know. There's a health crisis, a coronar virus in Wuhan, China. And this is the second largest economy in the world. Its slowing down, possibly disabling, as we find out today, from the production of more than 500 factories, such as those that supply parts to Bosch, Honda, Nissan, may result in slowing down other leading world economies. Forecasts for slowing the growth of this economy are already known today. JP Morgan expects this economy to grow by 0.8% , of 5.7% up to 4.9% and S&P estimates that if this health crisis in China continues for a few more weeks, this growth in the Chinese economy will fall to 4.4%. And this can undoubtedly also have an effect on the economy of the European Union countries. Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore a question to be answered as to whether these macroeconomic policy assumptions included in the 2020 budget can be maintained. First of all, as I said, the Monetary Policy Council and the President of the National Bank of Poland claim that these assumptions are to be maintained. And that's good news. But I would also like to say that if we are watching the market closely and what the Ministry of Finance is doing, we also see good reasons here. Namely, there is a very stable rate of gold to the euro. We remember that at the turn of the year always the zloty is very strong - many people return to the country, currency transfers are carried out for shopping in Poland. I've been watching this course and since then it's dropped to 4,24 and then slightly weakened to 4,31, but now the gold is being strengthened again to match other strong currencies. When we look at the offer to sell tax vouchers of the Ministry of Finance, we can see that in January the issue of EUR 200 million was recently placed there with the return of negative annual papers, -0.31%. That means, ladies and gentlemen, we'll pay you back less than three euros a year per thousand. the euro borrowed in this way. The next issue was recorded, 1.5 EUR billion, with profitability -0,002% for five-year paper, and the demand was not 1.5 billion, but 6.5 billion. What does that mean in practice? After those years, when we came down to finance public debt in foreign currency from 34.9% up to 27%, i.e. by 8 percentage points, we could calmly, also going back to the previous position, reduce the cost of financing public debt. So there are some provisions for improving the situation of public finances and reducing the cost of service, which is up to PLN 30 billion, we have. I would like to say that this responsible policy of the Government of Law and Justice also led to the fact that the share of non-residents as debt holders of the Polish State fell from 58.1% Up to 41.4%. Therefore, this budget has reliable parameters, it can be seen that we have large reserves in terms of stimulating various types of costs that can actually stabilise these parameters for revenue and expenditure. And there is a deficit in the budget with which the Government of Law and Justice came to the Sejm. I would also like to say that the next reading is the reading of GDP growth for 2019. He's developed at a level of 4%. Germany for comparison have here 0.6%. This shows that the German economy is growing seven times slower than ours. We are learning that by the end of 2020 we will be able to enjoy the fact that debt has fallen from 54%. - at the moment we took over - to 47%. The deficit is falling, public debt is falling against gross domestic product. At the same time, there is a horrendous rise in social spending, social transfers from 18 billion in 2014 to 66 billion in 2020. It's three times as much as when we took over. During this time, defense spending increased greatly from 32 billion to 50 billion. I would like to say here that there have been criticisms about the situation in health care. In my opinion, they are absolutely unauthorised, because there we have increased expenditure from 71 billion to over 100 billion zlotys per year. Scandal! It's all success. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to one thing: a balanced budget is a new, very serious challenge for the responsibilities of the responsibilities, because such a balanced budget can easily turn into a budget with a surplus. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's it, Minister. Because they simply have to spend the money, it will be a great responsibility for the budget managers. We know that in previous years it has not always been possible to complete all public contracts, to carry out all procedures relating to the proper disposal of public funds, which is why I am asking the budgetary managers to prepare themselves well for this. Of course, many times from this tribune there were assurances that the corset had to be maintained. Expenditure rules. Yes, indeed, this corset has been maintained. Many people might wonder why the rigor law has not been amended as regards the provisions of the spending rule. To be honest, I am impressed by the fact that a budget has been formed that fills these restrictions. Of course, we know that the expenditure rule is so constructed that only the additional sealing of the tax system, the additional source of tax revenue and the rapid growth of GDP allow to maintain a good pace of expenditure. Otherwise, you can't do it. In my view, we really need to take into account the slowdown in the growth in VAT revenue growth, which is a fact for 2019. Indeed, these easy-to-break benefits concerning the revenue of the State budget for tax increases have been collected. Today it takes really good expert knowledge, good practical knowledge to continue to reform public finances in Poland, and this is a great task that we all face. I regret that the opposition did not present any idea during the debate on the Budget Law. I'm very worried about that. I have heard a lot of populism, a lot of verbal graphics in my fellow Members' statements, which I respect for the preparation of evaluations, opinions, analyses, for careful analysis of the budget - sometimes with the exemplification of some helplessness when reading this comprehensive document, sometimes only with the intention of using a populist argument - but I could not read it, and I think that I was not alone here, any ideas that could significantly affect the position of the revenue of the state budget as regards the tax system, its sealing and the reduction of the VAT gap. What I'm trying to say is that what he can propose today, to promise the opposition, is really just a flush of what we've done in the last four years, 4.5 years. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of our eyes there is also a great attempt to depersonalize, marginalize, ignore the achievements, to step into the mud of those people who have done this great work of repairing the public finances of the Polish state. Banana! Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That's it. When are you gonna call him off? Yes, sir. The VAT-owska Mafia in the Ministry of Finance under Banana was covered. Yes, a great attempt to dehumanize this effort, this work that I will quote. Mr. Marshal, here for a moment, please restore your colleague to balance, because this is my time, I have the right to say what I think about it, and I'm about to quote the numbers that don't lie. In eight years of government, your group's income to the state budget increased by 53 billion, and in four years' time, the rule of law and justice increased by 146 billion. [[Applause]] And this is a great work that you want to compromise, embarrass. How? These are real, gigantic amounts, which we converted into transfers directly to Polish families, directly to the wallets of Polish citizens. And that's a question that's hard to deny. We are implementing an ambitious programme on the payment of 13 pensions, a 500+ programme for 40 billion PLN at a reduced retirement age for ladies and gentlemen, which also cost, with zero PIT for twenty-six-year-olds, with a tax reduction of 1 percentage point, where benefits... What about local governments? ...flowing directly to those who achieve income is PLN 10 billion, with the provision of funding for medicines. I want to ask you about local governments. Here such a curiosity that the use of artificial intelligence, which was developed in the Ministry of Finance, was also implemented to analyze prescriptions written by doctors. Today, this technology will help to reduce the use of large resources from the state budget for drugs that have actually been exported. PCK. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that, in parallel, we have supported small family businesses, small businesses, reducing income tax from 19% to 9%. Finally, I would like to say that this reform, which was implemented by means of the laws that introduced the SENT1, SENT2, SENT3, introduced STIR, introduced split payment, introduced the use of artificial intelligence after analysis of uniform control files, gave really good results. This is continued. We have a stable, good budget, which is pro-development, responsible for spending, will give people a lot of satisfaction... What nonsense! ...from being Polish citizens and will be a testimony of a strong state that respects the needs of its citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It's sad not only to look at your emptiness in the courtroom... The left is a lot. ...for these arrogance shows, but also for this entire budget, because despite the declarations, you have forgotten these beautiful slogans, what is the budget for, why are you and where in all this, in your supposedly tight tables there is a man, hard-working Polish, hard-working Pole, child, retired. It's not in your budget. The budget isn't for you. These aren't your designs. These are people. This is their life and their future. This is our money, ours, Poles and Poles. And this money is intended with the help of the governing party to support the development of Poland. You say, "Let's go." No, we give, we, Poles and Poles, and we also have the right to decide what Polish money will go for. Same goes for us. And we're telling you that they're not supposed to go to your 120 ministers, to the NBP principals, to the Byzantium you're building, to the continuous SOP accidents, just to get to the people. And today we all feel that we are approaching a certain social disaster. Not yet, you may be able to hold out by May, but in a moment the European Union's budget will run out of funding, and the money will run out in the Polish budget. And you close your eyes to the biggest problems of Poles and Poles today: for the cost, for poverty and exclusion, for the problems of everyday life. Are you aware that officials working much harder than you Members... You're talking about yourself, aren't you? ...those working in public offices and institutions, in courts, in hospitals, are you aware that these people are pauperizing so that they are slowly starting to live on the edge of poverty that they live for a minimum wage, that for this salary, not much higher than the minimum, they are supposed to live teachers and teachers, nurses, midwives, that for this money - very weak, which are barely enough for bills, for electricity that is expensive in space, for which they can barely buy things - live policemen, live the army, live people who are supposed to care for our safety, post office officials? They can't afford a vacation that your crazy ministers and employees of Treasury companies can afford. Self-governments are in crisis because you manipulate the budget so that you take money from local governments. Accommodation+. That's a great name. That's a great name. Only there are no apartments, nor do young people see a real solution to one of their biggest problems, the problem that they can't afford to live in. In this wonderful, thriving Poland tables of Prime Minister Morawiecki, young people say: We have nothing to live for. And you don't care. They don't really have much to learn for either. Your 300+ to start right now is much less. And that's enough for what? For two pairs of pants, for a few notebooks? Money isn't yours, and it needs to be valued. Education. A poorly paid teacher won't be willing to teach well. Your budget is a budget for the rich. You despise hardworking people and people in crisis. Poverty, including child poverty, is growing, and you have to face it. People with disabilities, their carers and carers cry poverty and tremble every day, and you play the Solidarity Fund, their security guarantee. Hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, delivery rooms are being closed. The drugs are getting expensive. You don't invest in culture. You invest bonds in science, but already in employees, especially administrations, you don't invest in science at all. It's just that the budget doesn't go up again, and it's barely gonna be a minimum raise that the institution has to provide. With the money of the Justice Fund, which was supposed to support victims of violence, women and children being beaten, you are financed by foundations, organizations and maybe even bought yourself a Pegasus surveillance system. Scandal. This is not helping the victims of domestic violence. This is not helping men and women in crisis. And apparently you care so much about women, the Prime Minister said so much about women - yes, those women who earn much less because the pay gap affects women, those women who don't have access to a doctor's gynecologist because you close hospitals because there are no doctors, those women who, as pensioners, suffer the greatest poverty and exclusion, those women who, as pensioners, cannot buy medicine because they have nothing to pay for. Money flows to you in a fast stream, and you can see it in these tables, to your people in companies, in boards, institutions. TVP, the Polish National Foundation is one of the greatest examples of your waste. But there are others: the President's law firm, the gigantic growth of the Church Fund, millions on the Territorial Defense Army, money on TVP, which deals exclusively with lying. Who? People in crisis. We all saw what TVP was doing to people with disabilities, what she was doing with teachers, what she was doing with doctors, what she was doing with everyone she knew... ...shame, shame... Shame, holy words. It is a shame, Commissioner, that instead of helping people with disabilities, you mock them on public television. [[Applause]] It is a shame that instead of helping women - victims of violence, you wipe your face with their name. For less than 100 zlotys, which you claim to raise monthly pensions, there is no way to buy basic foods because they have so expensive. There's balance in the papers, the tables are really pretty, but in fact what you're doing is slowing down the state, pulling out of its fundamental duty to take care of the weakest, to keep them safe. I thought it was the other way around. You're all like your Lower Silesian PiS. You say so many good things, you preach so many wonderful slogans, slogans, and then, like this asset of yours, you steal from the poorest, you strip them not only from money, but also from a sense of stability, security and dignity. We, the Civic Coalition, have prepared amendments that give you a chance to save face, save the budget and help people. It will be submitted by Mrs Czernow. Have a moment of reflection, don't waste the future on young generations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u26	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the first reading of the draft budget, the opposition tabled almost 600 amendments. At the first reading of the draft budget, not one of these amendments was heard before the vote. The PiS-owska majority in the budget committee voted without hearing the proposals, the content of the amendments, which in most cases, in more than 90%, concerned the things that PiS promised in the election campaign, which Prime Minister Morawiecki promised in the exposé delivered in this Chamber. The opposition, without seeing these promises in the budget, made proposals so that the promises could be fulfilled. The PiS-owska majority at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance rejected these amendments without even listening to what they were about, just as it was going on. What were the amendments about? They were about care and childhood. Great and real problems according to the PiS are problems of Polish families and Polish couples who can't wait to have a child. This applies to 2.5 million couples - young Poles and Poles. There is a program - it should still apply - to finance in vitro treatments. This national programme has been suspended by the PiS and is not implemented. Several Members and several Members from the club Lewis applied for its reactivation - the programme is formally written, but not implemented. The motion was rejected. The problem is also the lack of daycare. 200,000. My parents are looking forward to a place in the public nursery. 4 years ago, the Sejm adopted a law on child care under the age of 3 which allows for the subsidization of private daycare. Private crèches are on average a pocket too expensive, but it is possible to subsidize - whether by the local government or by appropriate provision in the act - by the state places in these crèches so that parents do not pay for any more than for places in non-existent public crèches. You rejected the Left's motion. You want to solve the problem of the lack of 200,000 in a cheaper way. places in public nursery facilities. The number of older people is increasing - we do not need to repeat it. Poland is getting old. There are no guardians for dependants, elderly people, aged. Geriatric care is missing. The Levite's request to pay for Geriatric care was rejected. Mr Tomasz Trela has already talked about a number of Left proposals on green energy and the fight against smog today. You have also rejected - and I am talking to the Members of the PiS - at first reading a proposal to make extra payments to those who are unable to go green, to the cost of using this energy - sometimes they are higher. You turned him down. Finally, the big loser of this budget, if it is not changed during the second or third reading, are Polish local governments. The underestimation of educational subsidies - this is a delicate term - is dramatic this year and in this budget. The educational subsidy, which amounts to about PLN 50 billion, should be at least 1/3 more. The right motion of the Left to add to the missing educational subsidy of at least PLN 15 billion was even ridiculed and rejected by the state. The lack of education subsidies is not only the lack of funding for educational expenditure and the gigantic sums to finance wages in education, but also a cut in all areas of society, culture in local governments, because it is not as much as it seems to the Members and Members of the PiS - because I have heard such voices, to my surprise, in the finance committee - that you will not make any investments, but it is a cut in current expenditure, because education subsidy is a current expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u28	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u29	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My previous speaker from my club Mr Czesław Siekierski already spoke about various tricks that were used to construct this budget, such as saving part of de facto civilian expenditure in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. This is indeed the budget of tricks, the budget of small fraud. But what has not been hidden in this budget is the scandalously low level of spending on what is today the primary concern of Poles, i.e. the functioning of an area called health care, and in particular the part of it that involves fighting cancer, the biggest killer of the 20th and 21st century. Therefore, we, the club PSL - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland, make, among others. a few requests to improve this situation, even on a small scale. Let's start with what's most important: PLN 2 billion more for the National Cancer Programme. 2 billion, i.e. what you intend to allocate to public media funding, probably in particular information programs of the Polish Television. Really Poles who are fighting for their lives with cancer need this money more, and now, for now, in this budget. Today, tomorrow or Friday, it should be voted out. We want to improve the situation not only in general but also in particular, so we ask for only 40 million to equip the Lublin Land Oncology Centre for them. St. Jan of Dukla. The proposal made by Mr Jan Łopa is trying to remedy the situation that is already taking place in other parts of Poland, for example in Zgorzelec, where excellently built, well prepared, to receive and treat patients effectively, the object is not used. It's empty, it's full of wind. This may be the case in Lublin, it is today in Zgorzelec and it will be a great shame if you do not take this amendment into account. We also have amendments to finance the infrastructure and equipment of the radiology units in Oborniki, in Sędziszów Małopolski, and we ask for assistance in the construction of the SOR in the county hospital in Środa Wielkopolska. And finally - the author of this amendment is Jacek Tomczak - only 5 million to make the necessary expansion of the Hospital of the Memorial of Polish Baptism in Gniezno. You talk so much about tradition, about attachment to Polish history, including the Christian part of our culture, you should take out only PLN 5 million from the budget for the Hospital of the Memorial of Poland Baptism. If you treat people with disabilities, we already know. The PiS government's approach to the needs of people with disabilities and their families and carers is symbolized by Mrs Krynicka's behaviour in the last term. In this term of office, you again want to reach out to the Solidarity Fund, which was intended for people and families supporting people with disabilities, for other purposes, for other expenses. That is why we propose that we find in this budget at least small amounts for the establishment of the Centre for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and their families in Krzeszów. Finally, not only to think about the thirteenth retirement pension, which, in fact, was to be paid in April as another element of the presidential election campaign, but for example. 250 million PLN is allocated to the energy supplement for pensioners, so much expected by them. Finally, education. Another problem, another great concern of Poles. What are the consequences of the deformity introduced by your government and the absence of Minister Zalewska today, we know. We know that 10 cities associated with the Polish Metropolis Union have already asked for a refund of more than PLN 100 million exclusively uncompensated costs of this deformity, which were incurred only in 2017. But these amounts are much, much bigger. That's why we're proposing... This is a serious amount, but education, i.e. the future of our children and young people in Poland, should be one of the priorities of this government. Not public television. Not lying propaganda, just fighting for a healthy society, helping people with cancer, helping those in need, people with disabilities and their carers, and helping pensioners. Finally, what is the future of our nation, i.e. concern for the quality of Polish education. So we are asking for an increase in education subsidies for local governments by PLN 5 billion. Yeah, it's a lot of money, but it's only a little more than twice the amount you're spending, once again, on public television. In this, perhaps at the very end, just a little promo sua, I would like to propose that 250 million compensate for the expenses on the checks for the redundancies due to the deformity of teachers in my home town of Wroclaw. But these needs are much more, including. including the extension of the music school in Zielona Góra. At the end of the day, it's about culture. We propose two very important amendments: related to the construction of the museum of Eastern Kresów, also such a proposal falls from Wrocław, and the museum of martyrdom of the Polish village (Dzwonek), which we owe to all those who suffered and even suffered death during those difficult years at that time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. Before I ask another Member, I would like to welcome a group of students at the gallery from the First High School of Lomza. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u31	Dear Marshal, Dear Members and Members, Students are listening to this debate, and the state, i.e. Platform, PiS, PSL and SLD, means the four parties that have ruled Poland for decades, are arguing among yourselves, who to take, who to give within this budget. Meanwhile, all this budget has been constructed - like all previous budgets over the last few decades - on the basis of a misconception. And that assumption is that the bigger the budget, the better. The more you can spend and help people, the better. In the meantime, it's exactly the opposite. The smaller the budget, the better, and the less money you can spend, the better. Why? There are several reasons. I already spoke at the previous meeting about four ways of spending money, one of which is the least effective - spending money for other people's needs. So the more we spend on the budget, the more we waste. But there's another reason. The bigger the budget, the less Poles have in their wallets. Just so we're clear, the money in the budget comes from taxes. The state doesn't make any money. And the less Poles have in their wallets, the less power they have over the economy. Because who rules the economy under normal conditions in a normal country? The economy is run by consumers. They, having money and deciding who they pay and who they don't, rule the economy. And companies, businessmen, they jump, they serve as best as they can to convince them that they deserve their money, not their competition. Then everyone serves each other and the economy works well. And who rules the economy when the state budget is huge? At this point, more than half of the money is collected from taxes. The economy is ruled by large, generally foreign corporations. Why? Because big corporations can afford to hire sneakers of lawyers, great lobbyists, in extreme cases pay a bribe to lure out such a right, such a way of spending money, such a tax system that will favour them, and domestic, small competition, consumers will cut them out and use them. An example is the great foreign hypermarkets, which do not pay those taxes that must be paid by domestic entrepreneurs. An ordinary entrepreneur or a consumer has no chance of colliding with the State's bureaucratic apparatus, with a fiscal apparatus, and large corporations are doing very well. The bigger the budget, the smaller the power of Poles over the Polish economy, the bigger the corporate dictatorship. Finally, it is necessary to understand this, to give power to Polish consumers, to give their money back to them, and to limit the budget to the minimum necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u32	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Zbigniew Girzyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u33	Thank you very much. My dear Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The most important feature of the budget debate in particular is concern for the state and responsibility for the state. And in order to show how important this trait is, I will present a story which should be an introduction to the present times, from the rich and colorful parliamentary life of the Second Republic, which is my great passion, which I like to share with you. Well, when on 27 March 1928 this plenary session was given to ladies and gentlemen, and this was personally done by the then President of the Council of Ministers, Józef Piłsudski, who opened on behalf of the President of the Republic, because this was the custom at the time, the second term of the Sejm, so that at that time a small, 5-person but very noisy group of Members of the Communist Party of Poland who disturbed the Prime Minister's speech, the speech of Marshal Piłsudski entered the Sejm. They disturbed them rudely enough that the police called by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Sławoja Składkowski intervened. And those few delinquents in the room were taken out, arresting them literally for an hour. After an hour they returned to the hall, took their vows in their role, but the Seym began to sit. Those persecuted by the then Polish communist system, when they were able to leave Poland, were all murdered by Stalin around 1937. But why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because immediately after this vow, the new Sejm, like us, had to adopt a budget commission for the next budgetary period. As I read the short-term report on the proceedings, which lasted a few days in total, on the draft of that budget, what struck me, in comparison with our debate today, is the great concern and responsibility of all, except for this small, few-member group, about the budget, about budgetary balance, about public spending. Even representatives of national minorities, who at the time rightly stressed their needs, such as the German minority member August Utta or the Jewish Member Isaac Grünbaum, supported the work on this budget, knowing that these are stable expenditures in the country. There have been few examples of populist corrections and various kinds of things that seemingly sound beautiful, but unfortunately they are actually extremely shabby. Listening to the debate at first reading and working in the Committee on Public Finance, I have really tried to pay great attention, including today, to listen to the arguments of the opposition state. It is also because I respect all Members, even those with whom I am very different. Many, including opposition, appreciate their achievements, contributions and concern. I also like a large group personally as very nice people. And I thought to myself, "Maybe I could take a little closer look at these amendments, maybe, as you call it, it would be worth supporting them because they're good. I realized, and these amendments were in total more than 500, that if we were lucky coincidences, perhaps in your opinion, they all accepted during the Friday vote, then, ladies and gentlemen, you do not realize that we would no longer have a job for the coming years. We'd build all the roads, roundabouts, railway lines, footbridges over the crossings, schools, swimming pools - everything if we'd just accepted these over 500 amendments. You were wondering, ladies and gentlemen... and I say, God, why can't I vote for this? And then I looked at this column that no one was looking at. What's the money supposed to go for? Because the source of funding needs to be identified. Well, 469 of these amendments will be voted on as minority proposals. Imagine that of those 469 minority requests 107, part 79 is the source of funding, i.e. The reserve for the service of the Treasury debt - because no one will notice it, it can be pointed out with impunity, no one will notice that we are taking something from someone - 281 points to the reserve for European investment, and 114 says that VAT revenues will be increased. These are such magical names, formulas that don't say much, but unfortunately they say something very sad. And they also make these amendments, who are perfectly aware of what they are doing because of their rich experience, including parliamentary experience. Because I am aware that Mr Trela, who is a parliamentarian relatively soon working in the House, maybe not yet fully introduced into the work of the Committee on Public Finance, but Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, who has been working in this committee for years, who was once vice-minister of finance, knows that well, has signed such minority proposals 17. In the case of four raises VAT revenues, in the case of four take money from the President's Registry, in the case of one of the IPN, but in the case of six take money from the provision for public debt service, and in the case of two of the provision for investment of European Union funds. If only these six amendments, only six out of almost 500, had adopted the amendments which consume the public debt reserve and under which Mrs Izabela Leszczyn signed, we would have consummated these measures in 1/3. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir - I think someone at the gallery is debating so loudly that it certainly bothers you. He's right. Thank you very much, Marshal. And another example, highly venerable, highly valued by me and well-liked Mr Piotr Boris signed six minority proposals. All truly glorious, for everyone I would even like to vote for, but they would also consume 1/3 of the reserve for the service of public debt. Only these two Members in just a few amendments In fact, it has already spent the entire amount and there are still more than 100 amendments that consume this reserve. Honourable Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, invaluable, very substantively working in the finance committee, quite cautiously signing the amendments, which I very much respectfully state - but also Mrs Skowrońska has suffered a slight breach, although not in such quantities, these reserves or funds for European investment. After all, you know very well, and all of you in this House know that this is really a mess. It's actually a little bogging up these amendments, this budget. If we had all voted in favour of what you are proposing, we would have devastated public finances. About the letter. Ladies and gentlemen! The responsibility I've been talking about since the beginning of this speech is payment of debts. This government is doing it. As the first not to indebt our country to the future, because the budget deficit has finally been eliminated and the budget is balanced. It's finally a responsibility for what's being proposed. I pre-estimated your amendments, i.e. Almost 500 minority proposals. Well, if all of them were accepted, ladies and gentlemen, we would have consumed the public debt reserve 30 times. 30 times. Do you realize what you've done by signing your name and what you want to do by voting and yet demanding us to vote like this? It's extremely irresponsible. If we voted in favour of your amendments, often coming out of noble motives, I ask you, it is a reserve for EU investments - so important and valuable, in each of our local authorities often implemented there - we would also spend many times. If we had such a good feeling about the collection of VAT and plans... Because many of you have also proposed to increase VAT revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, in these amendments alone, you have increased this revenue by more than yourself, when you ruled for eight years, you have levied this tax. I warmly congratulate you on having such a wonderful image of the Polish state's fiscal equipment and the Law and Justice: that it would be able to generate such a gigantic collection of VAT, only I must disappoint you. I think we'd have to raise VAT to ninety-seven percent. Maybe then it would lead to such a real system. I am talking about this because it is important to behave responsibly when ruling the state. It's a word to learn. Fortunately, we are such a safe and prosperous country - thanks to generations of Poles' work for the last 30 years, since we have regained sovereignty - that we can afford to have an irresponsible opposition. There are countries like our eastern borders that try to function in difficult geopolitical conditions that can't even afford irresponsible opposition, but we are so safe that we can afford irresponsible opposition. We can afford it because we have a responsible parliamentary majority. We can afford it because we have a responsible government. That is why we are talking today and I am saying this on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice: Stop for inflation of irresponsible corrections, stop for deficit and lack of caution. So for budgetary sustainability, so for development, so for the future of future generations of Poles, which this budget stabilizes, and hopefully stabilises for the years to come. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you to the marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u34	Thank you very much. We hear that the Member seems to be on radio links. I now ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to speak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u35	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki, which, of course, shows a total lack of interest in the way the budget debate is going. And the subject is important and, among other things, concerns the wealth of the state, which can work for the benefit of citizens. Unfortunately, the Treasury companies became a cash cow for the PiS asset. And I have to say that I'm not just talking about it because the Misiewicz groups go there, and I'm not just talking about it because there's a constant merry-go-round. One person comes in, works for 2 months, deletes the nipple briefing, leaves and another Misiewicz appears in her place. And this carousel lasts and lasts in these companies of the Treasury for 5 years. But I am also talking about this, and maybe above all because this pathological ability to install people who are not suitable in the companies of the Treasury, leads to the fact that the companies are poorly managed, leads to the fact that the companies cease to work for citizens, for the state, and work exclusively for the selected group of PiS nominates. And, ladies and gentlemen, this scale of losses that Poland suffered in the companies of the State Treasury, and therefore, in terms of both value and tax revenue, is simply unimaginable. Let's look at the dividends - they're falling. In 2019 this was supposed to be PLN 3.5 billion, in 2020 - PLN 1.5 billion, i.e. we have PLN 2 billion less revenue from dividends from Treasury companies. You have just asked how to get funds for the opposition's amendments. Mr President, it is enough to manage these companies better. But it's not just about dividends. If we look at the value, the capitalization of companies, it turns out that in the case of the largest companies that are listed on the stock exchange, the value of these companies with the participation of the State Treasury decreased, ladies and gentlemen, attention, by PLN 55 billion only in the last year. 55 billion PLN is more than Poland spends on education than it spends on defence. This is the scale of waste. But this means that this share of the State Treasury, the Treasury itself, has only decreased by PLN 28 billion over the last year. And that's the scale of incompetence that the government represents. But that's nothing, because ordinary citizens lost PLN 27 billion as a result of this poor management in companies. So much has evaporated from the wallets of Poles, because in companies you install Misiewiczów, who cannot manage them. Of course, this has consequences, because if it does not have influence from the companies of the Treasury, from the wealth of the State, then taxes must be raised. We've got 40 new taxes, we've got another one in store. It's expensive. This is an assessment of the government's activities. Let's see how this goes into the market. Let's see: WIG20 - the return rate of companies without the participation of the State Treasury in 2019 is almost 13%, 13% on the plus have developed these companies, where there is good management; companies of the State Treasury - 18% Down. It's a 30% spread. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to build on this basis some indicator of competence of the Moravian Government and its ministers, it would be 30 points lower than the average level of management in other companies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a disaster, this is a degrengolada, and it shows that it's not really about companies, it's about having stools for your own. Another thing to say is the Ministry of State Assets. Of course, it's more like a retirement establishment, or maybe a staff facility, for Law and Justice. Since the establishment of this ministry, although it is the largest among others, companies are systematically falling, therefore it is difficult to estimate that this is positive. I could still talk a long time about investments, roads, railroads. There it looks exactly the same as in the companies of the State Treasury. There is ill-skilled management, inadequate decisions, inadequate people and generally degrengolada in the state budget. Last sentence. The Civic Coalition Club has tabled several hundred amendments, which can improve this budget, can make it conducive to the development of Poland and will encourage Poles, and only accept them will make it possible to say something positive about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u36	Thank you very much. I would like us to welcome young people from High School 26 in Łódź just as hot as we did a few minutes ago. [[Applause]] I ask the floor of Mr Maciej Necessary, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For almost five years now, the rule of law and justice has been constant: the fact that these governments are coming to an end for a period of time, but still an unprecedented economic situation, and that, despite this, these governments are accompanied by a public service crisis, a public crisis, an education crisis, a health crisis and a public transport crisis. At first I thought this: Okay, social transfers gone, let's give them a minute, maybe they'll get over it. Then, when it didn't work all the time, when there was a deformity of education, I thought maybe you guys just couldn't do it, that it was too complicated for you. Today, as I look at this budget, I think it's even worse that there's no case here that this budget we're discussing today is a budget crawling with privatisation, that it's exactly the way it's supposed to be, that health services aren't supposed to work to make money out of it. Because what's going on? If Poles cannot wait for the necessary procedure, if health care is poorly paid, even out of these last pennies they will spend money to take care of their health, about their loved ones. And somebody's gonna make some money out of it. And I think it's about someone making a living at our expense. If we have underfunded education, if we have this deformity of education that has caused such great chaos, then a lot of good teachers are going from public schools to non-public schools in order to be able to make decent money. The students follow them because their parents want to make sure that their children have a decent education, but only those who can afford it. The reduction in PIT caused a lack of influence, less influence to the local government. The increase in electricity prices means that there is not enough money for public transport. What's causing this? That people are moving from public transport back to cars. That's why we have bad air. That's why we're stuck in cities. And this budget, which intentionally causes underfunding of public services, this is the budget of crawling privatisation, this is the budget of growing class divisions, this is the budget of an increasing gap between those kids whose parents can afford private schools and those whose parents can't afford, the growing gap between those who can afford private health care and those who can't afford it. And this is the greatest sin of law and justice. I have less and less doubts that this was the plan, that these are neoliberal governments that serve business rather than people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u38	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to speak next to the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I'd like neoliberal governments, really. Very long ago, there was no such thing in Poland, if ever there were. What we are currently dealing with, as we can see in the budget, is not a neoliberal invention. It is an old, proven school of European social democracy, a school of increasing public spending, social expenditure. Unfortunately, the simple reserves are running out, the distribution time is running out, as you can see from this budget. The cutting time begins, as you can see from the government's latest plans to raise taxes. It is about tax on sugar, excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol, further announcements of tax on hypermarkets, which will further increase inflation. I would like to remind you that, contrary to the forecasts, inflation is increasing. January average annual inflation is already over 3%. Ladies and gentlemen! What you are saying about this budget, that it is finally sustainable, is not true either. You used a one-time shot. Moreover, in the case of many of your promises, you have used something that you should not use - the Disabled Fund, the Demographic Reserve Fund. Rather, we, true liberals, conservatives, right-wings, stand in the position that such funds should be supported. Today we have announced that, like Norway, all the proceeds from extraction of natural resources, concessions, etc. they used the Demographic Reserve Fund in a time of demographic crisis, which is coming not to use it for the current overeating. So that the country with economic liberalism, with common sense, contrary to what the Members of the Left say, has nothing to do with it. The reality of the state is verified. As I said at the outset, the time for handing out is over, and the time for haircuts begins, and this is the time for shearing the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear statements about this year's budget, which we are dealing with, there are various kinds of doubts, I would call it even a scare that there is no money for anything, there is no money for everything, the situation is tragic, hospitals are closed. It's like Cassandra's predicting it. I'm very happy because the sphere that we've been predicting, including our previous victory... We said that we would work in the areas of external and internal security and the functioning of services so that citizens, Poles, could feel that these services were working. It seems that in this area... From the very beginning, I am a member of the Committee on Public Finance, I am listening to exactly what you say, especially the opposition, and I do not hear the words of criticism. Is that the answer that you think is good in this area? I guess that's the way to take it. And here's what I'm gonna say: I think you've heard something. Member, this is the time when... Here you go, Mrs... Then tell me the truth when you haven't heard. Madame, please do not discuss the Parliamentary benches. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget, which was proposed by the government, in the amount of PLN 435 340 million, through proposals which mostly submitted opposition, because dozens of applications were submitted and accepted by the Public Finance Commission... They are moving towards a decisive increase or removal, among others, as Mr Girzyński said, of reserves. On the other hand, the budget proposed in these headings, which is important for you: internal security, external security, the functioning of public administration, is a very stable budget, for the staff of the budgetary sphere of the budget, which specifically refers to the increase in the wage fund, and it is quite significant, because 6 percent, I will remind you, after many years of total blockade of increases. Now you're talking about raises, it's been blocked for many years by a political decision not to raise wages in the public domain. And so, ladies and gentlemen, the national defence budget is increasing by more than 5 billion compared to last year, which is 12%. higher year to year is 9.23% budget and 2,1% GDP. This, ladies and gentlemen, is above the average that EU countries have declared with regard to their budgets that they will adopt such budgets. Poland has already exceeded this standard. This is a very good course of action. I think that these elements are noticeable not only in Poland, but also by our allies. He's lying. The budget for property expenditure amounts to almost 30%. That's 17 billion with pennies for property expenses. In this respect, there are also officers' wages, the salaries of state defence staff. A very important element that needs to be addressed is that we have 12 alliance structures within our country, which is a very symbolic and concrete signal that speaks of the seriousness of the Polish state, that our allies place such important institutions within our country. As for the other sphere, the very important internal sphere, I ask you, the actions are multifaceted and this budget secures the operation of the state services, such as the police, such as the fire department, as well as crisis action. Here, action is going all the time in this direction to secure citizens, speed up the intervention process. Let me remind you: the development of the emergency notification system, the 112 system, but also the medical emergency and flood prevention system. The specific resources that go for this, amounting to several billion zlotys, are also a guarantee of rapid action and security in the budget of the State for unforeseen actions related to it. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent times that it is almost certain that these moments are coming and such measures should be secured by the state. Finally, this foundation, which concerns state services - as I said - police, fire department, also cooperating through the cooperation of municipalities, local authorities, TSOs, the operation of the entire security system, directly connected with the safety of citizens, but also with fire and rescue. These funds, ladies and gentlemen, are fully secured - as of today, our budgetary capacity. Here I would like to highlight the consistent work of all internal affairs and administration ministers: Minister Błaszczak, Minister Brudziński, Minister Witek and now Minister Kamiński. Besides, we have witnessed - those who are members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - a good, very good speech by Minister Kaminski about the future. I think the opposition has already noticed that these are the specifics that the Minister presents. This is the result of hard, long-term work and the proposals we are making. I think that citizens also see that these changes are happening because the recognition of citizens about how their safety is ensured is also very clear. These indicators are really specifically shown in numbers - high, high above 70%. These elements, ladies and gentlemen, allow us to make a clear declaration that Law and Justice in these aspects did not spare money and will not spare money. We can also see perfectly well that adequate resources are transferred to the activities of all services, which are often not spoken about so much, widely. Well, there's one thing you talk about all the time, because the conclusions are, for example. The opposition's talking about liquidation... Otherwise, you don't talk directly about liquidation, you just say where to give the money. E.g. from services such as the Central Bureau of Corruption... It's characteristic that even though it causes and eliminates often pathological situations hidden over the years, it's... Fifteen million dead. Once again, she has some knowledge that we, Members, do not yet know, and you know that this is all there is to it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Well, everybody knows, of course. Let's just leave it at that. Everybody knows. It is important to operate these services, please, because they stabilise the situation in the Polish country and give a guarantee that there is no significant political timbre, a different timbre, only it is important to observe the letter of law. Because the signal, which many people give outside, that an essential element is compliance with the law, must have not only a declarative dimension, but also a real dimension - in the operation of state services. We guarantee: yes, they work. I hope they work in the future. The role of the voivodships' budgets is very important, I will say. The budgets of the voivodships in Poland will go through almost PLN 70 billion in this year's budget. It's giant money. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous reality: the Platform and PSL coalition was folding voivodship offices, because they were thought to be a relic and no longer need to be raised to a higher level. We have several voivodeships in the Seym - we saw ourselves during the time when we took over the office, in which state we took over the office. At the moment, they can be compared and can be compared to 4 years ago. The issue of state reserves, a very important aspect of the functioning of the Polish state. This is an important, functioning super programme, well assessed by all state authorities: and by the NIK, and at the meeting of the administration committee where we worked on the report, the programme of modernization of the police, the Border Service, the State Fire Department and the State Security Service in the years 2017-2020. This year this fund has over PLN 400 million. Very good, specific expenditures, which serve to modernise this sphere. Tackling natural disasters - 1320 million. The reserves for the modernisation of the Armed Forces are 433 million. Reserve digital Polish. There's progress here, ladies and gentlemen. They may not be so visible every day, but they are. Faster operation, faster possibilities so-called. Digital Poland, citizens already see it slowly. This comes into play gradually, and this year there will also be further activities in this area. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of issues that affect these spheres, but the one that is wreaking up is such a basic element, is the service in the public administration, that is, the department that deals with the whole issues of the functioning of the Polish state. I'll tell you what. These spheres, which concern this year's budget, will cost PLN 42 billion. We're talking about salary expenses in the state. In this respect, the biggest expenditure relates to national defence - PLN 11.5 billion. Internal affairs - almost PLN 11 billion. In voivodship offices - over PLN 3 billion. These are fundamental activities carried out by officials who sanction the functioning of the State. As I said, the increases are measurable, concrete and not symbolic, and that is also what the officials who work in this area see. Increasing the civilian corps - this year we have 490 new pledges who will be able to join this service. This corps consumes almost PLN 10 billion. This also applies to people who also work in important Polish services, such as staff members of the SKO, such as Customs and Treasury staff, such as RIO employees. or the Public Procurement Office. It all works within this budget, as I said, almost 42 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, as I said at the beginning, there were not many critical words. It is possible that they will, as you have noticed, maybe I have heard wrong, but I am trying to listen carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, how someone creates a budget and has an idea of what this budget is made up of, on the income and expense side... Once, there was a rule in local governments that the council could adopt a resolution forcing e.g. The mayor's uncle, in the old days, was still the board of directors, or an old lady, to increase certain expenses. And where do you get the money for that? That, of course, was the problem of the hydrator who was supposed to find them for himself. The State as an opposition in connection with these proposals you are making, you are acting similarly. You're making applications that are uncoverable, but mostly you know what the railroad is. The Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, as well as the parliamentary majority, cannot allow the destruction of the Polish state. Therefore, by securing the functioning of the Polish state, by allocating tangible resources and signing them to the most important places in Poland, which these funds should have, we guarantee that Poland will develop steadily. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have heard Mrs Barbara Nowacka speaking in recent years - and I am trying to listen closely - that local governments are in crisis and, on the other hand, the opposition person says that the Polish state is only functioning through local governments, otherwise it would no longer work, something does not agree here. If I hear that there is growing poverty among Poles, including among young people, and the data we have is different... Where did you get this data? ...and they show that poverty is decreasing, and I'm curious about what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. There's a lot to say. But there's also data... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, someone who worked in this area and knows what it looks like had access to the data. Everyone's been working. As I also hear the views that the state is being wound up, and we present this budget to you as proof that the state is not being wound up, but sanctioning a serious country... You represent, and reality is different. ...which works and works, it seems to me that we are either living in two different realities, or we are talking about two different spheres. We're alive, we're alive. Therefore, please, at this moment, when presenting this budget, speaking of the 2020 budget, Law and Justice, especially as regards the departments most relevant to the Polish state, is convinced that the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, has prepared - and I hope that, as a result, we will be able to say that we have adopted a good budget which will be of great importance to Poland in the near future. In conclusion, I will say this: over the four years - please, countries, this is also data that can be checked - GDP is rising significantly, by more than 20%, public debt is falling by almost 5%, the deficit is decreasing from 2.3% to 0.6% , average wage increases by almost 25% and unemployment falls by almost half. Are these fairy tales or are these facts? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the period in which law and justice rule. And that's the tangible effect. Scaring is an easy thing to do. Of course, it is much harder how someone managed anything - school, nursery, kindergarten or, I don't know, voivodship - it knows very well that it is much harder to rule and take responsibility than not to rule or be in opposition and criticize. We're trying to do what we said and announced in the election campaign, offering our program, implementing it. And it seems that in these spheres, which I was talking about today, in the spheres of external and internal security, such a guarantee of the Law and Justice of Poland gives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u42	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u43	To sum up, Mr President, when someone doesn't want to hear, they just don't listen. [[Applause]] I will tell you, summing up all the speeches made by Members of the Civic Coalition today: Budget of manipulation, drawing money to finance their promises from the pockets of others, playing the future of Poles and Poles. That's the budget. And I'm going to show you this on an example of one of the most important areas of action in the state, that is, education. As far as education is concerned, as far as the budget is concerned, it occurred to me to say: For their profitable jobs, millions of wages and salaries, and for their teachers, charity. Unfortunately, it's the true face of the PiS. That's your attitude towards the state, to the budget. It is true how you treat one of the most important social groups, how you treat Poles and Poles who are responsible for education and education of children and young people, are responsible for the future. And when you're pinned to the wall at the last minute, you put this charity in the budget, you only do it on paper, without real money. You want proof of that? Do you want to hear how this budget is being manipulated? It was your minister, Minister Piontkowski, who explained that 835 million PLN was needed for the increase since September. And how much did he put in the budget? 100 million PLN. That's 1/8 of the amount you need to finance that charity you've been trying to give teachers since September. [[Applause]] This has been PLN 42.70 for one teaching job since September. That's respect for the teacher's dignity? That's saying it's the most important profession in the world? This is how you value your teacher's work - PLN 42.70 since September? Why not from January, as is the case with other budget groups? Why hasn't it been since September? Why only 100 million? Why don't you treat the teacher's work the way she deserves? PiS Members are silent and unresponsive when the Minister explains that actually the missing 700 million teachers will finance themselves out of their own pocket, that the 700 million are savings on teachers' salaries, because 7 000 have disappeared from the budget. employment. How was it supposed to be? It was supposed to be a teacher's job, and it was supposed to be worth paying the teachers. You are silent, Members of the PiS when it turns out that in many schools teachers earn less than a janitor and a cleaning lady. And just so we're clear, the janitor and the cleaning lady are supposed to make a decent living. But today many Poles and Poles ask themselves: Why is the work of those responsible for youth hiding not valued according to its rank and can we, our country, afford that teachers in whom education has invested huge money, go to work in the market, because there they will simply earn more? It is your government, it is Minister Zalewska, it is Minister Piontkowski who promised the school milk and honey flowing. But promising, you forgot to say that milk and honey, yes, will be, but for your own, and for teachers, students and their parents, you have only chaos and propaganda of success. You can rehabilitate yourselves. The Civic Coalition proposes an amendment: PLN 5 billion for raises for teachers since September... Since January. ...not since September, but since January and not 6%, but 15% . You can rehabilitate yourselves and vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u45	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Ministers! Mr. Chairman of the Public Finance Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to discuss the part of the budget that concerns a very important area of the Polish economy, namely agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say one very important thing that I think will calm and satisfy farmers: the state budget in this area, agriculture, will for the first time exceed PLN 50 billion. [[Applause]] This is very good information for Polish agriculture. This government and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki know how important Polish agriculture is, and they know that in this balanced budget it is necessary to finance Polish agriculture in order to develop it. It is therefore an increase compared to the planned 2019 budget. This budget, in total, when we add drought and income from the management of agricultural property of the Treasury, will exceed, as I said, 50 billion. The percentage will be an increase of more than 5.5%. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the most important information in terms of budget. As I said, we need to be a good host, so that a balanced budget, when a deficit is decreasing in the country, can be used to increase resources in this most important area of agriculture. That is why I want to thank the Prime Minister on behalf of Polish farmers for being so well-managed in order to finance this area of agriculture. What are we going to finance first? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the most important thing? The most important thing is education, because if we want Polish agriculture to grow, we need to invest in education, we need to invest in young people, we need to invest in what is the future of Polish agriculture: in science and youth. That's why the Ministry has more schools under its patronage, and it has money to do so. So far, the previous governments have rejected agricultural schools, eliminated agricultural schools. Local government had to finance these schools, local government had to run these schools. We have reversed the logic of governance, the logic of thinking, and the schools return to the Ministry of Agriculture. 54 schools are already under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. State everything. It's the local government... If you could understand agriculture a little bit, you would know that agriculture is a completely different area and that agricultural schools are to be under the Ministry of Agriculture so that they can develop, not under the local government, because under the local government agricultural schools have completely died. You treat them... Don't bother him. Thank you, Marshal, for the fact that the marshal has noticed that the Member is trying to disturb me. The next issue is counseling. We spend very much money on agricultural advice. Here I would like to communicate to all the workers of agricultural advisory centres, to inform them that today there has been an amendment which concerns agricultural advisory centres. Another 15 million PLN will be increased funding for agricultural advice, because we know how important it is that the science we will work out in our scientific centers will go under the roof, just go to the Polish farmer. That's why we finance agricultural advisory centers very strongly. Ladies and gentlemen! You're the ones who gave the farm advisory centers to the marshals' offices, you're the ones who made every farm advisory center work for your account, and we're restoring... We finance them and find funds because we know how important it is to bring this knowledge to the Polish farmer. Ladies and gentlemen! There are two very fashionable but not only fashionable, very important directions in the European Union at the moment. One is the green order, the climate. Ladies and gentlemen, our agriculture, our family agriculture, is what we call it. fragmented, which many have criticized so far after entering the European Union, agriculture has a great chance in the European Union at the moment, because it is agriculture that focuses on quality and we have our Polish high-quality products, which already have a developed brand. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that, for our products, the slogan that is in the European Union, apart from the green order, shorten the way from the field to the table. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the inspections that control quality are in one place so that there is good control. And this is not about controlling our Polish agriculture, but above all, dear country, it is about controlling these fraudsters, because they are also those who want to deceive the consumer, and to control the products that come to us from abroad. Because we know, ladies and gentlemen, that often these products, which are in various supermarkets, are of dubious quality. That is why we have joined, ladies and gentlemen, inspections and at the moment the inspection of commercial quality will be able to control products from field to table, to be sure, because it is for the good of our consumer, it is for the good of Poland, it is for the good of Poles. The next thing I want to say to you, this is what I've been saying, that it's very important to cut this road from field to table. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years previous governments, and not just some governments, not only the latter, but before that, have been telling us that we cannot slaughter on farms, and this has been telling us that it is the Union that forbids us to do so. No, ladies and gentlemen, we have created a law, there is a law that allows every host on his farm to carry out economic slaughter for his own purposes, but not for his own sake, because we have introduced another law, which is a very important law - retail trade. Dear country, this has not been in Poland and we have been told so far - Mr Siekierski is here, I think he will confirm this - for many years that the European Union prohibits it, and we have introduced a law saying that every farmer will not only be able to sell his products directly, but will also be able to drive to shops, restaurants, cafeterias, to sell to the intermediary up to 40 thousand. PLN without tax and over 40,000. only 2% tax. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the shortening of this road from field to table, so that it does not earn an intermediary on a Polish farmer, but that the Polish farmer is firmly established throughout the food chain. All the changes that have been made over the years lead to strengthening the Polish farmer in this whole food chain, which is so important that it is not just a small piece of the entire chain, but that the Polish farmer is an actor in the entire food chain. That's what these changes are for. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other cases, because, in addition to the budget I have already mentioned, there is an increase of 5.5%. Although the budget is balanced, we still have other things outside the budget, i.e. outside of this agricultural budget, which also needs to be mentioned. Indeed, there are also measures that are largely targeted at rural areas, because if we are talking about agriculture, we are talking about rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many such programmes that direct funds towards rural areas. It's about bus lines that have been closed for many years. We're the ones who gave the money to make those lines work. After all, ladies and gentlemen, we know this is about villages. It's about these small towns, these towns where your governments have led to social exclusion, where many people who live there, there's no way to get to the clinic, there's no way to get to the church... I wrote about three, and I didn't... ...there's no way to even come to your county towns. We're restoring those bus lines you've been closing. Where? Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to safety. We also care about the food safety that I am talking about, because this is a very important thing. It was very often forgotten in Poland about this thing, food safety. But we also care about the safety of all residents. After all, it was the previous governments who led to the fact that the stations in small towns were being closed down, and that they were massively closed down. There were two police stations locked up in my district. We've restored these precincts. More than 100 stations have been restored to make the residents feel safer. And, ladies and gentlemen, these are the next measures that are directed to Polish villages, to rural areas. The programme, which is a flagship program, our program, which we can boast and praise not only in Poland, but also in Europe and the world - 500+. Over 64% of the funding from the 500+ programme goes to small towns in the countryside. And these are the next funds from outside the agricultural budget that go to rural areas. And let's take, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of environmental protection and measures, which come from the Ministry of Environmental Protection also to the Polish village, also to this Polish village, which was greatly forgotten by you, and to the inhabitants of the Polish village. It's a matter of liming. For many years in free Poland we have this for the first time. No one's ever thought of that in a government to finance lime. And yet this is important, my dear country, also because of drought. Because when we're talking about the drought and the drugs that I'm going to talk about, let's remember that if we don't restore hummus in the soil, this drought is always going to bother us, and it's going to be very hard. That's why liming is fighting drought, fighting what's very important right now. This is a topic that we must all think about - the issue of water, lack of water and in Poland, and in Europe, and in the world. But right now, I'm talking about agriculture. Waste disposal case. For many years, no one thought of financing the disposal of agricultural waste, which was a big problem for the Polish farmer. And there are other programmes, as I said, funded from outside the agricultural budget. It's clean air. First of all, people living in small municipalities, in small towns, will benefit from the Clean Air programme. "Agroenergia," "My current." Look, ladies and gentlemen, how many of these programs are there, these programs that go to the Polish farmer. And there are two more programs I want to tell you about. Volunteer firefighters. After all, there are parties in our Seym, whose members have pinned their badges to the fire brigade, but, ladies and gentlemen, has it ever been as good in the volunteer fire brigades as it is at this moment? Have volunteer firefighters ever been so well-financed as they are being co-financed at the moment? This is almost PLN 300 million of all resources if we take them together, from the state budget to voluntary firefighters. And the next amendment, which has already been introduced thanks to President Henryk Kowalczyk - another 40 million for voluntary firefighters. And that's what I want all the firefighters to know. And the housewife's wheels? Tell your firefighters that the law and justice government is giving more money, another 40 million to volunteer firefighters. [[Applause]] And he doesn't look at politics, and he doesn't look at what firefighters think... He's watching. He's watching. ...because we know how important safety is, and we know how important voluntary firefighters are in this whole security system. Ladies and gentlemen! Another piece of information I'll tell you about. We are working on another thing that is very important for the Polish village. At the moment, a law is being prepared that will allow us to continue to finance the rural hostels' circles. 40 million PLN! 40 million PLN, sir, will be. Here you go. Let's hear it. Come on, sir. [[Applause]] Of course, give it up, sir. There is a bill and further funds for the Polish village - 40 million PLN for the groups of rural hostels. These are programs, ladies and gentlemen, which we are introducing because we know... That's enough. ...like a Polish village is important in our entire economic system. Poland's village isn't old-fashioned. I want to emphasize it very strongly, because it's often said that you have to help, because there's crap in there because there's poverty. Poland is proud. You talk so ugly. Why would you say that? The Polish village is proud, dear country, and the Polish village is strong. Poland's village counts more and more in the European Union and Polish products, good quality Polish products are already a brand in the European Union. And the case... Thanks for reminding me of the ASF case. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be literal, I would like to say that we are opening... That's right, success, that's right. Mr President, allow the Member to speak in detail about the ASF. ASF. In 2014, the State allocated 16 million to the fight against ASF. Three fires. In 2015, 200 million were allocated. How many more fires? I hear screams: how many fires. I'll answer right away, ladies and gentlemen. There were three fires. Now. How much is it now? Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to act then, it really worked and cut this cancer out of your body, just like the Czech Republic did, we wouldn't have a problem today. And now it's 300. Cut it out. That's 300 fires. The state didn't work back then. Not much, my dear country, the minister - it's in his head - forbids shooting wild boars. For six months, no wild boars were shot in Poland at all. It was supposed to be salvageable when it came to ASF, and it made it spread so much. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be literal... I think you are. It's so quiet out there. ...I would like to say that 16 million, ladies and gentlemen, were allocated in 2014, and this year we are going to spend more than 200 million. That's the difference. And then... And 300 bonfires. Bravo! Sir, wait a minute, wait a minute. Tell the whole truth, don't regret it. There you go. Thank you very much, Marshal. We can really scream, and I'm talking about the numbers that are written and that are real. Don't disturb me. About the numbers. About the numbers, thank you very much, which are written down. Ladies and gentlemen, next thing you know, I looked at Minister Babalski - the water company case. On your side. For many years we have fought for water companies - we are talking about drought - to be co-financed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many water companies were allocated annually under the Platform and PSL? 35 million. 16 million PLN. 16 million. Do you know how much it is now? 40 million PLN. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not saying... Don't talk. I'm gonna ask you to calm down one more time. I looked at Minister Babalski just because... I did it myself. ...that I know that he was behind this, and I know that he led us to spend 40 million PLN on water companies, not 16 million PLN, as it was under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. 40 million, exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about drought, I would like to mention drought aid and how much you are shouting about it, how much opposition is saying that the state is not helping. Dear country, such state aid - from this state is - as at the time of the drought which took place in 2018, was not in the history of Poland. This is about over PLN 2 billion - PLN 2 billion 200. This was the aid in 2018. In 2019 this aid was valued at 2 billion 300. This year it will be paid... You haven't paid for that yet. We hope that in this budget there will be enough resources to help the Polish farmer in the face of this tragedy, which is drought. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, as far as agriculture is concerned, this budget is historic. The worst. Special. For the first time, more than PLN 50 billion - when we add up all the funds - will be allocated to rural areas. These are facts. Bravo! These are, as the Member says, the figures in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - I repeat these words, but these words show everything, no matter how loud we shouted - he once said words that are symbolic, as I said, and sum up everything. He said that there would be no strong Polish economy if there was no strong Polish agriculture. The Government of Law and Justice will do everything to make Polish agriculture strong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u46	Thank you very much. Even Romek was applauding. Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to get back to the amendments. Several Members from Law and Justice have said that we have made numerous amendments irresponsiblely. Of course, the finance committee rejected these amendments because she did not like them - the budget was upset. I would like to say that our amendments - we made them 330 - improved this budget. That's not enough. We were hoping for a discussion. We were hoping for a meeting at the finance committee. Among these amendments were those concerning the construction of retention tanks in the countryside. It is not art to pay later for the effects of drought, it is necessary to prevent droughts, it is necessary to build deep wells, Mr President, in the countryside. There is no drinking water during drought, etc., etc. You've eliminated it. Program, 100,000. zł grant. So, ladies and gentlemen, these amendments, without any discussion, have been explicitly rejected with obvious disregard. The ruling party was merely checking whether there was a majority in the committee to reject these amendments. No one wanted to lean over them at all. And don't tell me you guys are interested in listening. And Mr Girzyński taught us what it means to be responsible for making amendments and then left immediately. And I will prove with our amendments that unfortunately there is no responsibility in many matters. I'm moving on to the club rehearsals. Today we are submitting additional club amendments which give the government another chance to improve the material and health situation of Poles, to address urgent, growing problems. Poles can't wait any longer because it's their money, not yours. The first amendment has already been discussed by Mrs Shumilas. We're offering 15%. raises for teachers since 1 January 2020. We guarantee the local government a full refund on these increases. I'm not gonna justify it because that's exactly what we were talking about. [[Applause]] Bravo! Another matter - ladies and gentlemen, here is the matter of this responsibility. After all, the PiS government introduced nearly PLN 12 billion from the auction of greenhouse gas emission permits into the budget. It is a duty to make 50% This amount is intended to reduce emissions to clean air. What about in the meantime? Meanwhile, this money has been squandered in the budget, many budget holes have been patched up, and the clean air - less than PLN 1 billion; for a program that doesn't really work, let's face it. We do not agree to squander this money, and we propose to allocate it to a determined, effective fight against smog, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Bravo! I think it's irresponsible if we don't use that money to protect the air, [[Applause]] for clean energy. It is a duty, ladies and gentlemen, not only legal, but also moral towards the next generations. Today 45,000 die every year. Poles because of smog. Further amendments concern the health of Poles. It's an absolute scandal to run out of money for specialized treatment, for cancer, for transplants, and for cardiovascular disease. We propose a significant, sixfold increase in expenditure for this purpose, so that Poles are treated at European level and not dying because of a lack of access to cancer treatment procedures. It's just unimaginable. And that's our responsibility. The next thing you know, it's a 100% increase. expenditure on prevention of cancer and cardiovascular diseases, which are increasingly the cause of death. And psychiatric treatment of children and young people is, ladies and gentlemen, an absolute tragedy - a shortage of psychiatric doctors, no treatment of children, young people. And what are the consequences? Multiple cases of suicide. Another issue is the restoration of in vitro treatment from the state budget. I also want to draw attention to what we were talking about - the ASF. And why isn't there an increase in expenditure, the Veterinary Inspection of all levels is not financed in order to fight the ASF effectively? That's what we're fighting for, and that's our responsibility. We're also returning money wrongly taken from the Senate in our amendment. It was the Senate who proved how effectively and well he works with Polonia. And then all of a sudden, there's a big aversion to the Senate and he's taking his money. And there's an amendment to the fire department. Give the firefighters the retirement allowances. [[Applause]] There's no money for that. There's only so much money without thinking about it. And one last thing. We also propose an increase in resources to combat violence in the family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u48	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Mrs Gabriel Masłowska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u49	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Draft Budget Act for 2020 in Part 46: Health, Part 66: Ombudsperson for the Rights of the Patient and Parts: The special provisions and general budgets of the voivodships were considered by the Health Commission and the Public Finance Commission. He got a positive opinion. Nor did the Sejm Analysis Office raise any objections to the draft health budget. High Izbo! The level, structure and dynamics of health expenditure for 2020 compared to previous years clearly confirm that for the current Government of Law and Justice, improving health protection of Poles is a priority, a priority with an iron consequence. The planned expenditure in Part 46: Health for 2020 amounts to PLN 5216 million. If we take into account the funding for co-financing projects involving the European Union, the expenditure of the Labour Fund for traineeships and specialisations and the Gambling Problems Fund, the consolidated amount will already amount to 11 billion with a piece. If we add the funds included in the National Health Fund to the planned appropriations, we will see that the expenditure on health care in 2020 will amount to PLN 107,6 billion, which is 33 billion more than in 2016 for the previous government. But it's our money. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, PLN 107,6 billion, while in 2016 it was unfortunately PLN 74 billion. There is a systematic increase in health expenditure. Even compared to the previous year, there is an increase of PLN 10 billion. The amount of PLN 107,6 billion will amount to 5.09% GDP. This means that it exceeds by more than PLN 1200 million the amount planned in the form of reference values included in the Act on the provision of health care, which guarantees access to 6% GDP for health protection in 2024 Not only do we pursue the path to this level, but the government even exceeds it. The planned expenditure from the Health Minister's budget, including the reserves at his disposal, will increase next year for the following tasks: higher education and science - an increase of 136 million to 1.8 billion, for investments in general and clinical hospitals - an increase of 80 million to 631 million PLN, i.e. an increase of 8.2% , for the purchase of vaccines - an increase of 169% compared to 2019, for medical rescue - an increase of 44 million to 161 million, i.e. 37,5% for pharmaceutical inspection - an increase of 10 million PLN. Let us also remember that funding for free medicines and medical devices for people over 75 years of age is also secured. Sure. For this purpose the amount of PLN 800 million was secured, i.e. 12% more than in 2019. The budget expenditure for 2020 in health care shall be reliable in the direction of the Ministry's activities for the coming years. These activities include: improvement of oncology care. Oncology problems will grow in the perspective of 15 and 20 years. Thanks to President Duda's initiative, since May 2019 the National Oncology Strategy has been implemented, which gives the chances of increasing the detection of cancer in early stages, reducing mortality and the costs borne by patients. The amount of PLN 250 million is planned for the implementation of this 2020 strategy. Therefore, the opposition's declarations are late, which sheds crocodile tears and makes amendments to increase the amount of budget appropriations for oncology treatment, oncology studies. As far as the period 2021 is concerned, the amount will amount to PLN 450 million per year and PLN 500 million per year in the years 2024 and 2030. We see that this is a long-term program. It will invest in staff, increase the number of specialists, education, prevention, increase the effectiveness of screening, science and innovation. The pilot programme of the national oncology network in four voivodships was implemented last year in cooperation with academic centres. He passed the test, brought great results, will be extended to the whole country. The waiting time for a primary visit for patients with lung cancer has been reduced, e.g. from 2 months to 2 days. The completeness of the pathomorphological examination has been improved, the waiting time for diagnostics has been reduced. There will be certified diagnostic laboratories in this area because the current state of affairs is unsatisfactory. Increased access to refunded therapies. Each patient has an assigned coordinator from the first visit until the end of treatment. 40 patients per coordinator. Within this programme, the exit consilies of doctors from the reference branches are provided when the hospital cannot provide the full membership of specialists. You no longer have to look for a suitable treatment centre for your cancer. And many other positive effects come from this pilot programme, which is a fact, is being implemented and will be expanded. And this is a concrete achievement in this area for the benefit of Poles, for those who are unhappy, affected by this disease. As far as other issues are concerned, there is a continued drug policy. So far, more than 155 million drug packages have reached 2.5 million patients. The list of modern medicines refunded for next year is extended to 108 items. In addition, a trombectomy network was introduced - do you not notice this? - where impact troops work with centres that have great opportunities and provide great help for those who have suffered strokes, to be brief. Increased possibilities in transplantology are huge. But there is a problem here because there are no donors. More intensive education is needed in this area. There will be increased expenditure, they are constantly increased, for preventive research, which are very neglected. Very good results came from a heart attack treatment program. Mortality has fallen, ladies and gentlemen, by 30% due to the introduction of appropriate cardiac and rehabilitation care after a patient's stay in the hospital. Unfortunately, there have been neglected areas of health care for many, many years in which our predecessors have made no effort or have been minimal, symbolic in relation to needs. This is psychiatry for children and young people. Here problems continue to grow, unfortunately, and the current Ministry of Health does not remain idle here either. You've tried to bring it up. In terms of psychiatry, a new model has been developed following the model of prevention or treatment of mental disorders among children and adolescents from European countries. It is supposed to be created, this process will start in this quarter, three levels, i.e. three types of mental health centres, as I mentioned, like those from European countries. The first level is environmental psychological care without medical referral, treatment of disorders by individual, group, family psychotherapy, at the earliest stage, often in the youngest children, without hospitalization, directing to a psychiatric ward, which threatens specific, unpleasant experiences for the patients themselves, as well as their families. Well, such a center will soon be established in at least every district. There's gonna be psychologists, psychotherapists, therapists. Ladies and gentlemen, for such a four-member team, the amount reserved in the budget is approximately 550 thousand. PLN intended to cover the costs of operating such a clinic. The Ministry of Health invites local authorities, which are subject to hospitals, to make such clinics, such centres on the first level, be it at their subordinate hospitals, whether at social services centres or schools. The second level is the degree when a psychiatrist enters, only the day's stay. And the third level, when high-specialist, 24/7 psychiatric care is required. The provision of benefits in the new model, as I mentioned, should start in the first quarter of 2020. January 16th this year An order of the President of the NFZ to launch competitions has been published, and within the framework of a project funded from EU funds, about 100 specialists will be educated, who will be useful in terms of the first level of reference centres. Therefore, the health department and the current government cannot be blamed for neglecting the mental treatment of children and young people. We care very much about their health, so the Minister of Health has taken concrete action. These are innovative solutions, which you have completely neglected. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the problematic issues that are ahead of us, of course, there is palliative care, which, to say the most popular, has been completely neglected for years. We have older people, sick people, suffering people, and they are being cared for by palliatives. Both a fixed, outpatient hospital and a home hospital require substantial funding. There's no beds, there's no specialists. It is about supporting the patient - this, in short, means palliative care - suffering from the disease. The Minister of Health has appointed a palliative care representative. The Ministry of Health has started work on amending the regulation of the Minister of Health on palliative care and hospitalisation in order to extend and better organise accessibility for patients of this type of support aid. There is a need to increase the financial expenditure, but also to train specialists, also to create palliative care teams in hospitals, which are generally absent, which are being paid attention to at the moment and what the work of the team in the Ministry of Health is on. The Minister of Health has planned for this year a tariff for palliative and hospice care services by the Agency for Health Technology Assessment, which will contribute to improving functioning. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also great achievements in the introduction of IT in the field of services, there are very good results, also in the field of blood treatment. However, a plasma factory is needed in Poland and we will work on it. The queues are actually not yet acceptable, but in some services, including cataract treatment, CT, resonance, queues have managed to significantly shorten. We're not shutting down what you were doing when January, the new year was a time of great commotion, and I think you're pretending you don't remember. 70% Hospitals in 2018 had a profit and only 10% losses above depreciation. There are fewer people dying in the E.R. than in your governments. I'm sure. You've closed 319 troops. 300 have been closed under our rule, but 217 new troops have been opened. But they were eight years old, and we were four years old. Is this getting to you? 217 new branches have been opened. We're gonna talk about this right now. The ratio of liabilities payable to health-care expenditures in general from 2015 has not increased, rather decreased and is 2%. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many achievements of the current government in the field of health, many achievements. Sure. It's not just free meds, raise pay for residents, restore medical internships. It is also free medicines - I mentioned this before, we know that - and many other programs that are being implemented and financed in much more money than you did. Therefore, it is impossible to suppress these facts with nothing, even with the populism that has been poured out of this place today by the opposition. Because of you. Today, this populism has simply achieved some ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, sizes. This cannot be disturbed, Poles see the effects of the government's actions in the field of health protection. We will not solve all the problems in 4 years, because you have done nothing in this regard over the previous 8 years, but there is a significant improvement, we are increasing the expenditure on health protection by more than 30% compared to what you have spent on this purpose. But how much did it cost? How can you deny it? How can we deny the obvious fact that queues have been closed or that the limits for high-specialism and many other achievements have been lifted? All these issues cannot be discussed in the course of this speech. Some were moved at first reading. I think that this will also be discussed in the course of further work on the draft budget. During the work of the Health Committee and the Finance Committee, the issue of hospital debt was tried in the foreground, although it should be clear to specialists, especially from finance, that this is not a budget issue, it is a matter of the NFZ plan. Ha, ha, ha! Nevertheless, the current Minister of Health, representatives of the Ministry and representatives responsible for other budgetary parts have shown you the situation in this regard, competently, on the basis of data. It is difficult, but it is not getting worse, which you would probably like to have another pretext for attacking the rule of law and justice, which, to an unprecedented extent, invest in health protection, finance a number of health services. Not all actions here have been mentioned, but denying this is merely an act of evil will and is used to fight politically against the Law and Justice. We are convinced that our health policies are right, that we are convinced that our health spending will increase. This direction of Law and Justice will continue and Polish patients, Poles may be calm that under the rule of Law and Justice health protection will never be neglected as it was for our predecessors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u50	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am going to talk about a symbol of the rule of law and justice, which all Poles talk about mass shopping on bazaars, city markets or shops, i.e. the cost which is the result of your first term of office, 4 years of government. Of course, the situation of inflation growth is very pleased by the government, because it gives additional revenue to the budget. The more we pay for the goods, the more VAT affects the budget directly. However, unfortunately, citizens are increasingly grabbing their wallets. In December inflation in Poland amounted to 3.4% year to year. Was this a characteristic situation for the whole of Europe? No. In the euro area, inflation was 1.3% in December. What does that mean? That it is not true what you are trying to convince everyone that drought, ASF is responsible for the price level, because these problems affect different countries around the world, and in fact drought was severe throughout Europe. The main problem in Poland is the avalanche increase in labour and production costs. That's, among other things. the result of the introduction by the Government of Law and Justice of various sectoral taxes, danins introduced avalanchely for several years, which increase labour costs and products. But it's also a leaping, inadequate to increase labour productivity, increase in minimum wage. We warned that nothing would change for Poles, as prices would increase avalanchely, because it will be passed on by producers of wages. After all, of course, it's an increase in the costs of the media, especially energy, rents, garbage disposal charges. What's the worst part? The yeast isn't just about food anymore, it's not just about our bills. The yeast, ladies and gentlemen, is touching the most delicate sphere of our life, i.e. our health, because the prices of medicines and medical services on which Poles spend more and more. A resident of Gniezno, aged 56 years after a liver transplant, came to my parliamentary office asking why the price of his medicine, which he had to take regularly during the last quarter, increased by almost 300%. Scandal! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 300%, the drug refunded by the NFZ at the same dose, in the same capacity of the same manufacturer, purchased at the same pharmacy, on 30 September 2019 cost PLN 31.84 and already on 27 January cost PLN 86.72. If the Minister of Health doesn't believe you, or the Minister of Finance, I can show you. And don't tell me you're not responsible for this. These are the prices of medicines reimbursed, which are regulated by the Minister of Health. That's how it turned out, ladies and gentlemen, I have proof, and then I'll show you to the Member. The health care problem that Mrs Masłowska has been talking about is not only expensive prices of services and medicines. This is also 90% of county hospitals that generate losses at the end of the third quarter. The report by the National Association of Employers of District Hospitals and SGH clearly states that as many as 110 out of 120 county hospitals, because you shift the cost of health care to local government units, showed losses at the end of the third quarter. But it's also an avalanche-growing public debt of the ZOZ. You always like to compare yourselves to your predecessors. Over 8 years of government, PO-PSL has increased total hospital debt by 1 billion, for your four-year government - by 4 billion. This is the result of good health policy, Mrs Butterwska, the PiS government. Debt is growing, so service quality is falling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Oh, yeah, scaring, scaring Poles again. On the one hand, Mrs... Poles see it, they don't need to be scared. ...is talking about avalanche price increases, talking about 3 in December Ub. Oh, yeah? 7%. If it's an avalanche, God forbid there's an avalanche like this everywhere. But the Member forgets that... But this is the inflation rate, so compare it. ...that wages have increased in the meantime. Here's the price of the medicine, sir. Well, if you think that this individual example is evidence, then let God approach public finances like that. There are many such examples, I can bring you a record. One bill doesn't decide that. Please see the data of the CUS that have been published. The increase in average wages is more than 7%, and this should also be taken into account. But as Mrs Masłowska spoke about a good budget for health care, I wanted to say that in terms of transport and housing, this budget is just as good and I would say very good. As far as transport is concerned, the expenditure for 2020 is over 45 319 million. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an increase of 23.2%. Of this, we spend more than 20,732 million on road infrastructure alone, and here we have 32 percent growth. And how much did you build? We're about to go to built roads. The National Road Fund is over PLN 15 632 million and here we have a 9% increase. You keep talking about the fact that Law and Justice don't build roads. Because he's not. All the time, just and exclusively, in a very common way, you're picking on the highways. The highways were built by you. Built. Bravo! But why didn't you build a whole highway? We haven't built a freeway entirely, have we? Finally. We're finishing these highways now. A4's okay. A4. The A1 motorway, starting in Gdansk, from which I have the pleasure of being a Member, will only be finished now. And it began to be built in early 2000. So far, you haven't been able to do that for eight years. We're finishing this freeway now. Rail transport, ladies and gentlemen. 18 billion 960 thousand. - almost 17 percent increase. National railway programme - 20% increase, over 12 billion 350 thousand. Polish Railways spend over PLN 4 230 million on railway infrastructure, including technical assistance over PLN 83 million. Support for domestic passenger services. Ladies and gentlemen, a new program from which municipalities, local governments... The appeal here to local governments to benefit. They don't. They use more and more. We set aside PLN 1 965 million and that is 2 billion more. Each of these 2 billion is more than you've spent. 'Cause you've been putting zero on it. It's a big zero. On the other hand, when it comes to voivodship transport, we have more than 700 million zlotys, we also have more than 12 percent growth, and in terms of EU projects, the purchase of goods for rolling stock, we have more than 34 percent increase, that is over 664 million zlotys. Other projects in the area of funds of the EU Transport Projects Centre are also almost 18 percent increase, over PLN 5 billion. Infrastructure. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, we have a drop in expenditure, some of the tasks of this ministry have gone to another ministry, so we have a drop of more than 16 percent. And now, as you say about this construction of motorways and railway roads or in general roads, please, at the end of 2015 there were 3,000 in Poland. km of roads. Motorways, high-speed roads and national roads, 3,000. It's a kilometer. At the end of 2019 we have 4146 km. You've built 2,000 for 8 years. km of roads. For four years we've built over 1 000, sorry, 1100 km. Yeah, yeah. So statistically, we've built more than you've built, and you're still saying we're building less. We build more roads, we build fewer motorways, and we build a lot more express roads and national roads. As far as roads in Poland are concerned, new programme: construction of 100 bypasses. Where are the other ones? 28 billion PLN in 10 years will be spent on 100 bypasses. The estimated length of these bypasses is 820 km. So far, we've built some 500 km long bypasses, so within 10 years we'll build more than we've built all the years. Financing: 28 billion is provided, 100 bypasses. I will not quote the whole list, please, because we have bypasses in every voivodeship: Dolnośląskie - seven, Lubelskie - seven, Łódź - five, Mazowieckie - nine, Podkarpackie - eight, Pomorskie - five, Świętokrzyskie - four, Wielkopolskie - eight, Pomorskie - seven... What about Silesian? ...Kujawsko-Pomorskie - seven, Lubuskie - seven, Małopolskie - seven, Opolskie - four, Podlaskie - five, Silesian - five, Warmia-Mazurskie - five, Zachodniopomorskie - nine. A total of 100 bypasses. But that's not all. In addition, we build bypasses also during expressways. It will be such bypasses as in Łódź or in Rzeszów, or in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, for example in Solc Kujawski. And you refuse... Ladies and gentlemen, the programme is groundbreaking with regard to this type of expenditure. We have improved road safety. Here is a huge task that we want to accomplish, because Poland is still in the top countries when it comes to road accidents. Still over 2,000. people die on the roads, of which more than 70% Dies in built-up areas. So we're moving the bypasses out of the built-up area, and with what we can take with 100 percent certainty, there's going to be fewer accidents in this area. [[Applause]] That's the point. not only road safety, but also increase the capacity of the road network, clean air and less noise. Here was a lot of talk about Poles dying of smog and so on. Transport is also a source of air pollution and noise. The removal of bypasses and traffic from city centers will reduce both air pollution and noise. This will also have an impact on regional development. The departure of bypasses outside urbanized areas causes new investment areas to be created around these bypasses. In fact, among these 100 local governments there is no local government that would not be happy with it, and a lot of local governments wanted to be on this list about 100 bypasses. He doesn't want to invest. Unfortunately, the budget, as you know, is not made of rubber. We make 100 bypasses, and within 10 years, we're gonna make another one. These will be realized, we will carry out the next. This programme results from both the Responsible Development Strategy, the sustainable development of transport, regional development, the Road Safety Programme and urban policy by 2023. All this makes him complementary and in line with the expectations of local governments. I have not yet met with any local government that would be dissatisfied with the fact that a bypass is being built on its territory. Ladies and gentlemen, construction and housing now. Here, too, there is a huge cry from the opposition that we have eliminated the program of living for young people, that the program of living+ is not functioning... Does it work? ...that there is a misfortune on the housing market - a misfortune, which is that in Poland in 2019 most apartments have been built since the 1970s. That's when they were building... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But it wasn't you, it wasn't the state that was building, it wasn't the public sector that was building. Ladies and gentlemen, you keep saying that this is such a oppressive country - a oppressive country in which we have records in terms of construction, and it is not only development, but also social construction. Some Members who are here for the first term do not remember this, but the previous coalition in 2009... Let me remind you: you have eliminated the Dollar Fund, social construction, municipal construction, TBS. That's not true! You've eliminated the Dollar Fund, including housing cooperatives. We've restored this fund. That's not true! Madame, your reality will not scream, it will not deny that you have abolished this fund. So what? And a thousand apartments. Accommodation+. This fund has been restored and at the moment local governments are starting to... After a major collapse in the construction of municipal housing in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 we finally start to bounce from the bottom when it comes to municipal construction. We've introduced subsidies. Self-governments can get up to 40% aid for municipal construction. We've eliminated the concept of social housing. There are no two types of construction, there are only contracts - social, communal - in one kind of building. In 2012, only 1.1 thousand were built. rental apartments, and already in 2018 it was 1,5 thousand. apartments. There was even more of that last year. We have over 6,000 at the moment. apartments under construction. These are financing agreements concluded by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It concerns social housing associations, funding directly from the municipal budget, municipal companies and housing cooperatives. I have an example: in my family This is probably the first time in 30 years that the housing cooperative has been building new apartments. Cooperatives want to build, receive funding from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. There is a chance that the potential of housing cooperatives will be used to build there. I also call on local authorities to use these different instruments to support rent building for rent. There is a new start-up scheme, where regardless of who the investor is, the tenant who rents the apartment can receive a rent payment. More and more local governments are starting to benefit from this. When it comes to the housing +, the potential of these apartments, we are starting to realize this. This is a difficult program. Oh, very difficult. And on the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have 120,000. potential land, 18,000. The apartments are already in design. In fact, 867 apartments were built. Bravo! Five years! But this, ladies and gentlemen, is 860 more than you've built, because it was built under your rule, once again, zero. Lie! MdM. As regards MdM, please read the report of the previous President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Mr President, what are you saying? Please read this report. President Kwiatkowski did not leave a dry thread on this program. The program was realized at the time you planned it. It was planned for 2014 and was implemented in those years. You didn't anticipate any longer implementation of this program. Why did you plan this for four years? It had to be planned for eight years, ten years or 12 years. You planned this for four years. The program didn't create a single new apartment. No data indicated that this program created new apartments. As for the number of apartments being built, last year the record was 200,000. apartments. In 2011, i.e. In your time, there were 130,000. But who built it? Developers. Why didn't developers build in your day? How didn't they build? They were building. I repeat data: in 2011 - 130 thousand, in 2015... [[Game in the O.R.]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Each of you will have a voice, really. Let's hear it, you'll have the floor. It's just starting to look bad, really. Please, I respect you. You're welcome, sir. In 2015 - 140 thousand apartments built by developers, by all others. Last year, 200,000. apartments. Why didn't these developers build in your day? 200,000.? Because there were no appropriate instruments, there was no proper amendment of the laws that allowed this construction. We have improved this environment, ladies and gentlemen. This is your success now. First of all, sir, you are interrupting me rudely. Second, I'm giving you the data. If the data is lying, please go to the Central Statistical Office or to the developers who have the data. These are hard statistics. In 2011 - 130 thousand, in 2015 - 147 thousand. That's the data. We've had 160, 170, 180 and 200,000 for three years. As far as this year is concerned, we plan to build 225 thousand in Poland. apartments. You're lying. Ladies and gentlemen, we take into account that all kinds of housing schemes are very positive from the housing market, despite the controversy resulting from this. No one claims that the number of apartments is satisfactory. In the National Housing Programme, we assumed that we wanted to reach the European average in terms of the number of apartments per thousand. residents. Right now, we've reached 380 apartments in 1 000. residents. The European average 2 years ago was 435. That's the average we're trying to get to. We're on our way. This is not only about developers, but also, as I said, about housing cooperatives, municipal construction, rent construction. Everyone can satisfy this market. Not everyone can buy from developers, which is why we have introduced new building support instruments. For this programme there are good responses in the construction environment. We expect greater involvement of local governments. Self-governments, do not be afraid to compete with developers in this regard, because not all residents can buy from developers. Construction with social support is needed. There are many Poles who need cheap construction. We've introduced these instruments. Enough of that, support instruments are functioning all year round at the moment. Previously, there was one recruitment or there were two recruitments during the year, at the moment you can go to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and practically 30 days after the application is submitted the application is to be verified and the payment is to be granted. We also inherited this program, right? There were two emissions. Minister, you remember, there were two emissions, and everyone had to wait. Excellent. First one issue in a year and then the next year. We've introduced continuous funding. You can go to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego at any time, submit an application and receive funding. So, given that, despite the discussions and the various controversy that we had at the meeting of both the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Public Finance, the opinion is positive on these parts, I call for the budget to be supported in part 18 and in part 39, because it is a really developmental budget, one that favours the development of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u54	Thank you very much for the budget that favours the development of Poland. And on this matter will be spoken by Mrs Margaret Janyska from the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. I warmly welcome you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Kościński, presenting the draft budget in the Sejm, said that this year's budget in many respects is record. And here I agree, ladies and gentlemen, it is record-breaking because it is the result of record manipulations and will cause many adverse record phenomena. And especially when you listen and it collides with facts and feelings of Poles, you can see clearly how this budgetary manipulation has been carried out. But what's the offer? This budget will not increase investment or encourage entrepreneurs or local governments to increase investment. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is going to be another investment collapse. I am surprised that you do not ask entrepreneurs and local governments why they do not invest, what reasons they have, why they do not make investments. And after all, investments in your governments are falling systematically, they are record low. And this budget, as I said, will not encourage them either, and this investment is the main driver of development and this investment guarantees future income. On the other hand, the government has a record light approach to this dependency, because the debate on this budget also said that farm consumption this year should be the main factor of growth and therefore not investment. Another record, ladies and gentlemen - a burden on local governments. Self-governments have never been as burdened in history by government decisions as they are right now, for your power, and for your previous term, and for this term of office. Local governments have a record-breaking situation, they limit their investments, they raise service fees, which they provide, for which they bring on the odium, the aversion of the inhabitants, and the activists of the PiS and the people associated with them still turn it up. And it's not local governments who are responsible for the fact that the cost of services is rising. Also many small, local companies, unfortunately, are at risk of bankruptcy. Besides, you've already had some bankruptcy, because by your actions, according to published data from the CSO, almost 30,000 went bankrupt last year. commercial establishments. That's the result. Of course, trade restrictions on Sunday. On the other hand, however, there are no measures to help businesses and workers. Unfortunately, the tax-free amount isn't rising, you're not reducing the VAT rate, which was your flagship slogan as you were running for election. Why don't you raise... Another record, ZUS contributions, contributed to another record, and at the beginning of this year there was a sharp deterioration of mood among construction companies in Poland and a record high percentage of indications just for your actions as those which discourage anything and is the biggest barrier to activity. Ladies and gentlemen, another record, I'm going to use such a harsh word, but I have to use it, it's a record of impudence. You remember the whole climate of rising energy prices. For months we had a carousel of various conflicting positions of your ministers - you will raise, you will not raise, and there was information that you would compensate for everything. Of course, you didn't compensate, the prices for the companies went up, the goods are expensive, the services are expensive, they're going to be expensive. How long can entrepreneurs last, how long consumers can last, we'll see. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, which is apparently not included in the budget, but only in appearance, because it actually has great consequences in it. This is trust in legal certainty and to the state, and this trust is record low, record low, and it has been drastically reduced recently because of your liquidation of an independent judiciary. If anyone wants to do business, they need legal certainty. And you're the ones who plowed it. Will someone place funds in our country if he takes into account the reality that it is impossible to appeal to an independent court because of the various situations that the economy is affected by? No, that's not certain. Minister, wherever you are, this budget, instead of being a record budget, should be a rational budget, a budget that will promote economic development, because that is the only thing that can create money for society. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we should wish for, but under these governments. It's unreal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u56	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Wojciech Zubowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I have the pleasure of speaking in the debate on the draft budget for 2020. Once again, I am acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Unfortunately, once again, I must say that the opposition's voice in the debate most often concerns politics and not the draft budget itself. Politics is the exercise of power. That's not good enough. Even with regard to the budget, you use either false or populism. Let me give you an example. One of the amendments tabled by the opposition concerns my constituency and the allocation of funds for the construction of the bridge in Głogów, the bridge, let us add, to explain, very much needed. What's weird about that? The fact that you want to allocate PLN 100 million to the bridge budget, knowing very well that these funds will not be used. Why? Because documentation is being carried out, there is a technical and environmental study for the construction of a bridge and a bypass of the city. The contract signed in 2018 gives the contractor the time of 2022 to indicate the planned course of the investment and to complete the entire documentation. So what will it do to allocate additional resources to this task if this investment cannot be realised without these documents? Nothing. As you think, three women should have a baby within three months and nine within a month. But, ladies and gentlemen, we know it doesn't work that way. Not much, the Civic Platform has been promising to build a bridge in Głogów for years, except for promises, there was nothing out of it. Now that the Government of Law and Justice has made this investment happen when it is included in the 100 bypasses construction plan, you have suddenly remembered this and other towns. Ladies and gentlemen, objection to the excavation of the Vistula mine. You raise the scream that ecology, that it's a shame, etc. What's really going on? On whose behalf are you speaking? If you don't know what's going on, it's mostly about money. Let us provide some data on revenue to the budget for fees and taxes at ports. In 2014, 15 billion, 2015. - over PLN 17 billion, in 2016 also, in 2017 - PLN 22 billion, 2018. - over PLN 40 billion. The mining site will increase the capacity of Polish ports, thus increasing the revenue to the budget. The mine's excavation will cost about 1 billion, but due to the impact of port taxes alone, we could fund this excavation every 9 days a year, throughout the year. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what automatically comes to mind? That it hurts you to lose German ports, that for the Czech Republic there is an alternative, that Polish rivers and ports can be used for the transport of goods, for which money has so far flowed into the German budget. Ha, ha, ha! You don't believe what you're saying. Think about what you're saying. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. Looking at your objection to the excavation of the mine, to the construction of the Central Communication Port, it is difficult to get a different impression. Well, build it. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the taxes that are allegedly raised during the rule of law and justice. Let's look at the data again. Let's look at the facts. I'm gonna use the data on the day of tax freedom. They have been collected since 1994 by the Centre im. Adam Smith. And so, in 2015 it was 11 June, in 2016 and 15 June, in 2017 - already 9 June, in 2018 and 6 June, it was a record, and in 2019 - 8 June. This day is the day from which citizens stop earning money for the state and start on each other, and it falls much earlier in the times of the rule of law and justice than the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Even though we didn't take money from the OFE, we put in a plus-in-the-name program that you didn't even want to hear about. In our time, so-called. the amount available in households has also increased. And at the end of the road. The argument often raised by the opposition to show that you were better at something than us. Only that it is currently built municipal roads, district roads, national roads. There are high levels of resources for this, which will help, among others. in the fight against communication exclusion in smaller towns. It is we who place so much emphasis on express roads, which are simply not burdened with such costs as motorways. In your time, ladies and gentlemen, it was not unusual that the state paid for motorways, transferring funds to private pockets, and these costs were one of the highest in Europe. We finish construction, among others. S3 routes, which are designed to better communicate with the Czech Republic, facilitate the transport of goods from above the sea. And it's us, ladies and gentlemen, who end and build the roads that you've been After all, announced for Euro 2012, and what came out of it, we all know very well. In our time, ladies and gentlemen, gross domestic product has increased by more than 23%, public debt has fallen from more than 52% to 47.4% GDP. In your governments, please, Poland has been subject to an excessive deficit procedure for 6 years from the 8 years of your governments. For every 4 years of your term of office, three years were for the period when we were under the excessive deficit procedure. In our time, ladies and gentlemen, this deficit is less than 1%. GDP, unemployment has fallen, average wage has increased. The deficit that you, the state, have been able to achieve after 2 months of the year, we are able to achieve only by the end of the financial year after the introduction of numerous social programmes. Therefore, such a request that you apply the principle of doctors, which you so often mentioned today: Primum non nocere. If you can't help, at least don't bother. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u58	Thank you very much. Marek Owl from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will respond brilliantly to this tough position by Mr Zubowski. We're listening, sir. If brilliantly, we'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the past few years, we have heard very often how much financial power goes towards local governments. It is worth looking at through the prism of specific numbers. Let me give you a few examples of budget deficits, for example. local voivodships, which from the point of view of the reforms you are introducing, yet - one can say - have been least affected by these reductions. And so: Śląskie voivodship - 125 million deficit, i.e. 6,5% , Małopolska - 284 million deficit, or 13% , and let me remind you that in 2015 it had a surplus of 30 million, Podlaskie - 126 million, i.e. 15% deficit, Świętokrzyskie - 74 million, i.e. 10.5% deficit, Lubelskie - 58 million, i.e. 5.5% deficit, Podkarpackie - 179 million, i.e. 13.5% deficit, and Łódź - 27 million, i.e. 2,5% Deficiencies. It is not by chance that I have selected a group of these seven voivodships, in which only PiS rules, because you are not going to say that the losers rule there. They could not have led not so much to draw up sustainable budgets, because this - I realize - in one year can be difficult... But they have such huge budget deficits? Of course, they're the result. Only the law and justice policy, because the state on the one hand is talking about adding funds, and as we look at the specific figures, we don't see any additional power here. You can see it, for example. through the prism of the educational grant. The educational subsidy decreases in relation to gross domestic product and decreases in relation to the state budget. Five years ago it was, for example. over 2,5% , today is 2.4% in relation to GDP, and in relation to the budget it was more than 12% respectively Today it's 11.4%. How, then, can local governments deal with all this? They must set out gigantic measures to meet commitments that are actually made entirely outside of them on the other hand. These commitments are made here, in this Chamber, and the burdens are passed entirely on to local governments. If we see how in the section: Education and education is shaped e.g. education subsidy, it turns out that she once financed 60% all costs and today it finances 55% all costs. Someone's got to cover that difference. Today you are wondering, you say: here you go, you have your own income. Yeah, but it's all more expensive: electricity - 25%, garbage charge... Let me remind you that in 2017 it was 24 PLN. Under your rule, you have increased this regulation and in 2018 there is 140 PLN, in 2019 - 170 PLN from 1 t and in 2020-270 PLN. And then you're surprised that, as avalanchely, a few dozen percent of them, there's a lot of trash charges going up in the local government. All of this is only the result of the rule of law and justice. No one can have any doubts about that. There is a great deal here that Members speak of this prosperity, so I will take it back. Of course, I have no doubt that if the Government of Law and Justice were to cooperate with local governments in the construction of housing, these results would be much better, because, after all, thousands of apartments are in total, on the scale of all the apartments built, there is really not much, but you invented yourself 5 years ago a program of living+. How many numbers did you say the Prime Minister was talking about? He was talking about 100,000. We have 860 apartments. And you know what this show is called today? Ask the Minister of Development. Today's program is called "Living+ in liquidation," because it will be announced at the end of February and March that it will be completely liquidated. As Minister Mazur said, it is absolutely not suitable for any correction, it must be eliminated so that anything new can be invented in this regard. You are talking here about issues related to the scope of road construction. Of course, you are again recalling only one source of funding, which is the Self-Government Road Fund. I will remind you that it was only introduced last year, and in fact the number of kilometres built under this programme is really very small, because it was only in the fourth quarter of the day. agreements have been concluded and promesses have been distributed in relation to the programme. However, remember that the programme in this area was allocated to our governments from European funds and from the National Road Redevelopment Programme, the so-called. schematics. And let me remind you: it is Prime Minister Morawiecki who has been declared a liar in this regard in a local election campaign because of the spread of lies, so please refrain, because this really is the way to nowhere. As far as the primacy and scope of road construction are concerned, I have no doubt that much more water must pass in the Vistula before, if at all, you will come closer to this element. And now, for the summary, the key. What is the result of PiS policy, very oppressive towards local governments? In order to maintain quality of life at the right level, local governments must cut investment expenditure. If you are now familiar with the opinion of the Regional Audit Chamber, you will see that it is foreseen on the basis of documents submitted to the RIO that investment expenditure will decrease three times in a two-year perspective. That's the result. Law and Justice policy. This is the result of a policy that we are familiar with, because of the announced over 20% We have 17 funds for investment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. I have no habit of interfering, sir, but I wanted to verify your data on the number of apartments. Please. You said there were 860 apartments. I've been informed that these apartments are 869 built. Okay, I accept the correction of your marshal. I'll agree fully. So don't lie to me. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u61	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Does anybody else remember the famous "Strategy for Responsible Development"? I only printed the cover page because there are over 400 pages and I didn't want to destroy the paper. Prime Minister Morawiecki... You could've brought the drive. ...was driving around with these famous slides of Poland and convincing everyone to the extent that even President Kaczyński believed it. So? It's as good as it used to be. It was supposed to be Poland+ and it is Poland-- it was supposed to be an increase, and it was going to fall. And it's in a time of great economic prosperity. Evidence? There you go. Firstly, the SOR's objective was to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Effect? The number of Poles at risk of poverty increased by 422 thousand, the number of children living in extreme poverty increased by 90,000, the number of extremely poor seniors increased by 60,000. Secondly, an effective struggle for natural growth was announced. Meanwhile, the demographic catastrophe has deepened. According to estimates of the CSO, 375 thousand were born in Poland in 2019. Children, and 410,000 died. people, and that means that the natural growth was not only negative, but the lowest since World War II. Thirdly, what interests me most is economic growth. It was announced in the SOR an increase in investment from 20% to 25%, and we fell to 20 years ago, we are on the tail of the countries of the European Union, on the 23rd place. GDP per capita in the strategy was 78% EU average - not available. Prime Minister Morawiecki promised a million electric cars, and he invests in black energy, a new coal block in Ostrołęka with a capacity of 1000 MW, which is expected to cost PLN 6 billion. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Business conditions in Poland have also deteriorated. According to the Doing Business report, comparing the conditions for doing business in 190 countries: in 2017, we were still in the 27th place. We're down 13 places. We're at 40. The competitiveness of the Polish economy has deteriorated. And that's all in a time of great economic prosperity. High Seym! But with great determination PiS is doing what was not in the strategy. This budget is the best example of this. You spend PLN 2 billion on propaganda media. You're introducing a 10% increase in excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products. About 10% You've increased your contributions to the Social Security Office. You're taking the Senate's resources to Polonia. You tax 15% of Poles' pension savings. That wasn't in the S.R. Let me repeat: in times of great economic prosperity. You didn't make supplies for the future, you didn't close the deficit, you hid it. It's over 70 billion. High Seym! Another budget constructed by Prime Minister Morawiecki is not pro-development, is not responsible and will not serve economic development well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. Mr Szczerba. There it is, you can see it. Handsome, as usual, well-dressed. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The case is very serious, namely Poland is one of the few countries in the European Union that do not have a national Alzheimer's programme. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber in Poland, 470 thousand. Poles and Poles suffer from dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. We submit, High Izbo, amendment: 20 million PLN for Alzheimer's program, a program dedicated to the rapid diagnosis of people with dementia diseases, support in the treatment and advisory support of carers of these people. The NIK report shows that the families of people suffering from dementia, Alzheimer's disease, are left to themselves. This is a great injustice. Ladies and gentlemen! We point out the source of funding for this programme, the health policy agenda: the IPN budget, the budget of the institution which is growing in an extremely fast way when there is no real funding for the health policy programme, which the Minister of Health should - as we call for - launch immediately. 2020 is the last year when preparations can start. The World Health Organisation has committed Poland and all WHO countries to prepare and implement their national programmes by 2025. We can't wait any longer. This is a specific amendment that you can respond positively to. And the Warsaw case. We are all aware of this, High Izbo, that as a result of tax changes concerning PIT, Warsaw loses PLN 1200 million in terms of its income. None of the investments in Warsaw were positively assessed by the Committee on Public Finances. These amendments were tabled by me, by other Members of Warsaw. It's about building Sinfonia Varsovia, it's about building a concert hall on the street. Grochowska, it is about the roofing of the Stegna skating track, it is about the construction of a show and sports hall at the National Stadium, it is about the modernization of the Skra stadium, it is also about the modernisation of the Polonia stadium, it is also about the construction of the Rozmaitości Theatre with the creation of the Museum of Modern Art. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really possible to like Warsaw and it is necessary that investments that are not only local, but also national and European - because I asked for such investments - receive support from the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no outstanding appropriations in this budget. This is the case for the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment on the guardians of adults with disabilities. The judgment is dated 2014. The measures were secured in 2015. They weren't realized. Until now, guardians have been waiting for the money they deserved, the income they deserved, the benefits resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like the Minister of Finance to point out to me in this budget the funds reserved for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, it is a very difficult budget, a budget which also does not take into account many health needs. We also propose an amendment to increase the funding for specialist services, in particular in the field of cardiology, in the area of diseases related to the ageing population. It cannot be that Poles spend PLN 51 billion a year on private medical services. This means that each of us, each Polish woman and every Pole, with our own budget, household budget, savings, spends money on private medical services. These needs should be met by the public health system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u64	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Henryk Kowalczyk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to use this rest of club time to discuss the amendments that we declare on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice at second reading. First of all, among these amendments, it is worth noting the inclusion in the multiannual programme for oncology, the allocation of 40 million in the reserve additionally to the financing of voluntary fire services, the increase of funding for the State Agency for Atomics. I think a rather important amendment is the amendment concerning national parks and salaries in national parks. This problem has been unsolvable on several occasions and national park workers have had relatively low salaries compared to their education, professional training, specialist training. Thanks to this amendment, salaries in national parks can increase by 10% each year. and more, of course, using the resources that parks acquire as part of their activities. This significant increase in wages is certainly expected by national park workers. I think that this is the first step, and in the coming years it will also be possible to use it. There is also an amendment increasing the funding of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection by PLN 8 million, an amendment increasing expenditure on general sport by PLN 10 million, an increase in funding of the Supreme Administrative Court, the State Labour Inspection and transfers concerning the created Ministry of State Assets. Given the organizational problems of the voivodships in their foreign affairs departments and the fact that there are more and more foreigners, there will also be an increase in funding for this purpose. This is how I propose these amendments on behalf of the Parliamentary Club (Bell) Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u66	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska from the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition. It's gonna happen, I can tell by the mine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u67	Mr. Marshal, this is gonna happen. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Each month, Poland's debt increased by PLN 3 billion from 2016 to 2018. Thus, the state has led to an increase of PLN 110 billion in debt over 3 years. And what happens if there's no 5% increase GDP? That's not good. The state has presented a budget that you are talking about that there is no deficit. And we have all said many times in this Chamber that this deficit is a minimum of PLN 52 billion. But you're not worried about another year, counting some of the revenues of one year. What is the real budget, then every Pole and Polish will see within a year, starting with inflation. You said it wasn't true. In December, inflation was 7%. Assumptions of inflation, this inflationary target of 2,5% Unfortunately, it won't be real. Each of the Poles feels price increases by shopping. And it's not an illusion, it's real money spent from the budget. And over the four years, the state has introduced 40 new taxes. And what were the announcements for 2020? That we would be gone, citizens, cost the price of electricity. And what does it look like? First I check, it's not true. It's gonna cost us, and not everyone's gonna get compensation. Trash prices - each of the residents gets a bill. The price of garbage exports is higher. And it is the government that has established contributions in this respect. What do we have against him? It was supposed to be a cost-effective law firm of the Prime Minister. Oh, my God, there's a loose end, and everyone's fine there. They said there'd be electricity compensation, and they're gone. It was said that there will be savings in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, and there is not. The second enchanted matter is a matter of health care. Don't tell this to the Poles, because Poles know that they make up the National Health Fund for their treatment. And it is not the grace of the state to count this money as your merit. It was every Pole and Polish woman who paid more. And that 107 billion PLN is our money. But you're saying there's gonna be more money for 75+ meds for seniors. Yeah, it will be, only at the National Health Fund and with our money. You say: there will be money for certain procedures. That's what the minister promised yesterday. There will be - 300 million of our money in the National Health Fund, not from the money promised in the budget. And yet you promised five years ago that there would be funding for health protection from the budget. You have two problems in health care: longer queues, which each Pole and Polish, and sick see, and yesterday was the World Day of the Sick. We wish the sick a lot of stamina and health because they can't count on you. [[Applause]] In this respect, you have a judgment of the Constitutional Court, yours, from November 2019 that it is the State responsible for the treatment. And those debts of hospitals that have grown in recent years due to various difficult situations, because you do not overestimated the procedures, even though there is high inflation, this 15 billion PLN you have to take and pay and today you have assigned them to the local government. So each government will pay more each year. And your announcement of a network of hospitals failed because the network of hospitals collapsed. If you add a little money to the cataract and a little money to the National Health Fund, where do you get more? After all, this is such a beautiful comparison: for the treatment of the sick a billion may be added, but we will give 2 billion public television. Don't you just feel ashamed that people are sick, waiting in queues, the situation is difficult, hospitals are closed, and you don't overstate procedures? Public television gives 2 billion PLN, your grace, a total of 4 billion PLN during your reign. You didn't spend that much on health care, and there was money on public television. My friends and I have been talking about educational issues. Every local government in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, to which I wrote - this is the case across the country - has an average underfunding in the field of educational subsidies, for educational tasks, between 30% and 50%. It was pointed out that my colleagues said that underfunding for education was PLN 50 billion on a national scale. After all, you're just preying on local governments. You're bragging about some situations, but there's no money for education. The state does not increase these amounts, and if you give something, as it was said here, with the needs of about PLN 600 million it is a modest PLN 100 million. It's not supposed to be like this to finance education. We have the lowest spending on agriculture, no matter what we say. The figures which one of the Members quoted, when talking about the money to eliminate the ASF outbreaks, are PLN 15 million at three outbreaks and PLN 200 million at 300 outbreaks. The number of outbreaks is increasing, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to say that you have failed to deal with the ASF problem for at least four years. These are facts. What did the money come up with? That's a lie. Don't you just feel ashamed that you've ruined the Solidarity Fund on the so-called. 13 retirements, but this isn't 13 retirements? You have your age, then why do you... You threw in the basket your government pension project for women in 1953. You don't notice this problem. There was no money in this project for this purpose. What are they for, with those 500 amendments you were talking about? If you'd said so before... But the Member is lying. Sources of funding. What's it for? There's more money on Homeland Security and Intelligence. There's no sick people, there's no intelligence agency, there's no schools, there's no public television. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted to speak responsibly about the budget, you would just be talking. You are trying to make a budget where the words seem to sound beautiful, but these are the words that are false, false, and the deficit is really hidden in this budget. We cannot support such a budget. We are trying to improve it thanks to complex amendments related, among others. with money for education, health care, in vitro funding and other important needs. This country will answer to Poles when they show pictures proving that in queues to the doctor stands, in queues to the SORs stands, and other hospitals are closed. That's what the Poles will remember. They'll remember when they're going to the grocery store and they'll be paying higher bills and higher charges for electricity and other media. This budget cannot be supported. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u68	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 47 questions are now to be asked. I have a question: Would anybody else want to join the list? Yes. Well, you're welcome to join us. Mr President, you are sitting in the last bench and you are not working. It's modesty. As the Member adds up, there will be these... That's me. To the last place. You're welcome to sign in. That'll be 49 questions. So from what I see in the Chamber, each of the Members will ask at least four questions, because there are no Members and no Members. And it's gonna be quick. Okay, ladies and gentlemen. Since we would like this to go quickly and wisely, I'm setting a time for asking questions for one minute. One and a half. One and a half if they don't come. Ladies and gentlemen, one minute. You're welcome, sir, please. Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I care about your... Just like Terlecki, Mr. Marshal. Ha, ha, ha. ...but also for your future tonight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u69	Thank you very much. I do not have as many minutes as the previous speakers had, so I just want to signal within this 1 minute that after listening to this debate since the beginning of this term, and we started with the Solidarity Fund, I say that the scale of misinformation is very large. We have two realities. On the one hand, hard numbers and support, I think about the government side, the support instruments, and on the other hand, the opposition disinformation and counterfeiting of facts. I must say that the Solidarity Fund, which has been mentioned many times here, is a testimony to this. Those who did not want this fund voted against it today stand up for it today, when this fund is still going to be bigger for the disabled and also serve the thirteenth pension. I would ask the Minister to confirm that this is the case, contrary to what opposition representatives say, who are trying to change this reality by falsifying it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, I could only say about the fund, but I might as well say it about the education grant. I'm trying to point out that the education grant...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u70	Mr President, this is in the future. Ha, ha, ha. He's developed. And now we invite Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Civic Coalition. What do you mean, Mr Cymanski just signed up, and he's here, marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Apart from these important, national issues, there are also matters concerning our regions, such is the case for Bielsko-Biała and the counties of Bielsko, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywietki. I have to say that in terms of health care so far, county hospitals and powiats have been doing well, while after the introduction of the hospital network there has been a drastic decline in their, I would say, profitability. Live only last year - 10 million losses, Cieszyn - 5 million, similarly to others. There's one pediatrician in Bielsko within a 30, 40 km radius. Question for the government. When will you finally execute the judgment of the tribunal and local authorities, or will the hospitals receive additional resources to restore the level of management before this unfortunate reform? I also want to ask you about the clean air. There's my amendment to the boiler decommissioning programme. The state excluded the city (Bielsko-Biała bell) from this liquidation. Are there additional resources? Finally, the issue of the construction of the Beskydy Integration Road. There was a promise from Prime Minister Szydło. In this perspective, will you find ways? There is also my amendment, and it can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High and not so many Izbos today! We have a nice winter this year, not for winter, and we have other attractions like this. drought. These are the rising costs of the climate crisis, those are the costs that have not been taken into account in this budget. This is the budget of the climate deficit for which we will all pay. There are huge challenges ahead, such as energy transformation, such as adaptation to an inevitably changing climate. The Law and Justice government has no plan for this, that's not what you see in this budget. This is the budget of rising prices of electricity, climate disaster and coal imported from Russia. What's the alternative? If the government is hoping for a technological breakthrough, it would be appropriate to spend some money on research, because prayers themselves may not be enough here. There's one technology that could save us. This is nuclear power. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice has really put the nuclear energy development programme underway. My question. What are the total funds (the bell) provided for in the nuclear energy budget, and what does the government want to buy for it? Wacky? I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I do not see Minister Grybarczyk, and I have a question for him because I would like to ask about part 22: Water management, specifically about the State Water Farm of Poland. This is an economic entity that should practically expand its wings in 2020. Last year was such a starting year. I would therefore like to ask about investment issues. Here we have a large amount, over PLN 2 billion, of which PLN 680 million is from the loan. Why this loan and why the loan and not the grant from the state budget? On the other hand, I would like to ask very specifically about a few investments that concern flood safety on the river Oder. These are the collapses of Kędzierzyn-Koźl or the knock-downs within the framework of investments prepared by local governments. Their total cost is PLN 80 million. Will they be implemented this year or not? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second task - Mr. Marshal, another second - is the water polder Iron, the protection of the city of Opola, I think, indirectly also the agglomeration of Wrocław. This task is prepared by the local government, supported financially by EU funds. Question: "Will this investment have a chance this year?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u77	Thank you, Marshal. I want to revive the Minister. One specific question. There has just been a budget debate - already, I will be in time - and we have heard how generous and good the opposition is, gives for everything: wages, bonuses, health, investments, many billions of zlotys. The simple question is: What is the source of the cost of implementing these proposals - and we have it written in the budget - the opposition proposes? Is it not so - and I am going to the point - that the opposition proposes as a source of coverage for the costs of implementing its proposals those budget lines which are the most devastating criticism: increasing the deficit, increasing the VAT revenue, which has been subject to crushing criticism here? What's this? I still have 15 seconds. What's this? Let us hope that you will support our amendments. I know these numbers because I've been here 20 years. When you're in opposition, you're a good uncle. A liberal face for people, right? Minister! You've got something to show for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u78	Minister, it won't be easy to answer Tadeusz Cymanski's brilliant question. Isn't it? And now we will listen to Mr. Richard Wilczyński of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. I've got it all written down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u79	High Izbo! The increase in the budgetary sphere in 2020 according to the government will amount to as much as 6%. Really, in terms of inflation, that's going to be 2.5,3%. Success. Well, success, to such an extent that the Minister of Education had to amend the regulation on teachers' salaries, because some of them fell below the minimum wage level. Success. The phrase "poor relatives" to the employees of the State, the brightest Republic, is euphemism unless someone is the judge of your breeding of the Disciplinary Chamber, then 32 thousand. You're due a month. In 2017, the death building in Rusinski Wierch already existed. I'll quote NIK's report... I'm asking for a dozen seconds because this is serious. In 2017 all the substantive workers left the District Construction Supervision Supervisor in Zakopane. The reason was pay. And I ask the question: in 2020 will the workers of building supervisors continue to be the worst paid employees of the state?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u80	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Marcelina to hang from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question about the five Kaczyńskis in health care, the five main demands of the ruling party on health protection. First of all, prevention: We want every Pole to be able to do preventive examinations on a regular basis, starting from the age of 40. We look at the budget and what do we see? The health policy agenda is virtually unchanged. The government does not allocate additional resources for this purpose. I'll add right away, and they won't be in the NFZ either. Postulate 2: Coordinated care of seniors and independents in each county. A quick budget analysis again. And what do we see? Money for medical care facilities - all 686 thousand. zł more. If it counts, it's $2,000. PLN per year per county. This is your measure of care for the elderly. The hospital modernisation fund is another rather interesting position. Increase in resources - 80 million. Announcements of Law and Justice - 2 billion. There is no money at the modern oncology centre (the bell) and twice as much for health in 2024 is one big fraud I already mentioned. My question is, when are you going to start taking health care seriously? If Jarosław Kaczyński is the company of this five, when are you going to complete it? I assume he's your boss. It would be good to carry out the boss's announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki of this speaker stated that the budget for this year is balanced and there is no deficit. How can you lie like that? He forgot to add that 52 billion are missing to cover all expenses. More. He's a little disappointed in his memory. There's no money left to protect your health. Hospital queues are getting longer, and specialist queues are getting longer. You forgot about the indebted county hospitals. There's no secure money for that in the budget. When will you compensate local governments for income losses due to a reduction in PIT rates? Self-governments are barely vegetating. Why is it that this budget does not include a tax-free amount that would improve the financial situation of all working people and that many who are not working would encourage work? But you don't value work as value. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You promised that before the election. You're desperately looking for money, you're introducing more taxes that hit entrepreneurs. You're introducing a sugar tax, destroying bottleneck companies in our country. We're going to investigate this bill. Surely, this budget is definitely not a developmental one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in this Chamber only the government is in full stock, filled to the brim is so-called. tram. All Members who should be here today and listen have other activities and do not want to hear what concerns the people of our country. I will talk first of all about Radom, about what is in my heart, because I come from this city. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Agriculture promised last year - on 1 January 2020 he took over the agricultural school in our city - that there would be investments, resources for this purpose. After the interpellation I submitted, I received an answer: for this purpose there are no budget resources, there will be no investments in the agricultural school. The same is true of the records in the context of the rehabilitation pavilion, which was to be already in 2018 and 2019. Also in 2020 there is no such appropriations in the draft budget. So I would like to get an answer: What do you want to do with minority proposals that concern this case, at least 100 million for Radom Specialist Hospital? Another point that is very important is the response to the interpellation received from the Minister of State Assets, from the Minister of National Defence. I asked about nitrocellulose in Pawns, nitrocellulose, which is a threat. The answer is terrible. You write that nitrocellulose is located in areas that belong to the municipality. Yes, they do. Mr President, we're done here. ...they were only taken over, the syndicate handed it over to the local government unit, and this nitrocellulose produced state-owned gunpowder and ammunition plants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg from the Left parliamentary club. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Adamczyk! Minister of Infrastructure, I recently asked a similar question about the S19 road, but unfortunately you didn't answer me that question, you just told me what the Platform did. I would like to ask what PiS did to build the S19 road, and when will the first tenders be launched for the construction of the S19 road in Podlaskie Voivodeship. Minister, during your election campaign, you said that in Podlaskie Voivodeship the first tenders would be announced in December. It's mid-February today, these tenders are still not announced. When, Minister, will this road S19 be built in Podlaskie Voivodeship? But that's not all. You announced a program of 100 bypasses, in the context of the Podlaskie voivodship you exchanged among others. Bypasses of Białobrzegów, Suchowoli, Sztabina, Zambrowa. Minister, when are these bypasses going to be built? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And another question to Minister Piontkowski: Minister, what are you going to do with the education subsidy? I would like to point out that in the Podlaskie voivodship - you are a Member of this voivodship - hundreds of millions of PLN educational grants are missing for local governments. E.g. Bialystok is short of PLN 381 million... Mr... ...in Suwałki - 48 million, in Łomża - 50 million. Many other municipalities lack tens of millions of dollars for this subsidy. Minister Piontkowski, it's time to wake up, and finally it's time for local governments to add to their education subsidies. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u88	Mr President, it's time to finish. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland's railroad needs huge investments in ageing trains. In PKP Intercity more than 60% of rolling stock is 30 to 40 years old. If 40-year-old cars had a share of less than 1-percent two years ago, in 5 years they will be one-third, and in 10 years they will be 80%. Locomotives, wagons and traction units, which are or will be over 40 years old, should be replaced by new ones. The same applies to the traction network for high-speed connections within the CPK - it requires a variable current of 25 kV. The situation is critical, and that's why I'm asking. Will and when in the budget will the appropriate resources be allocated for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, we have been told about plans to build 100 bypasses in the country. These bypasses will concern, among others. towns such as Kalisz, Gostyń or Wschowa. These are the towns along the national road 12. This is very good news not only for the inhabitants of these towns, but also for thousands of drivers who travel this route every day. In recent days, my colleagues and I have submitted a proposal to the budget for the start of work on the construction of the S12 road just between Kalisz, Gostyn, Leszn and Wschowa to Głogów. I would like to ask what is the chance to implement this investment when it will be implemented. the bypasses and their parameters will correspond to the parameters of the S national road? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u92	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Wieczorek from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it is clear that there is no possibility that all the proposals we are proposing will be included in the budget. And that is understandable, and my question concerns this issue. The conclusions of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which were accepted by the whole committee, have emerged, and these conclusions have, by a strange coincidence, already been rejected at the level of the Committee on Public Finance. My question is this: Can we not, at least in this regard, accept the proposals which the substantive committees consider necessary? These proposals concerned universities in the maritime industry in Szczecin and Gdańsk. It is similar with regard to the applications I submitted concerning the construction of the theatre in Szczecin or the extension of the stadium Pogoni. I understand that these are the proposals made by the Member, and they were immediately rejected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the question is: Why do we not accept the conclusions of the committee? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u94	Thank you very much. I don't want to be mean because I'm not. Mr President, maybe you're not at the club where you're supposed to be? These applications are therefore not accepted. Thank you, Marshal, I'm not planning on changing the club. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each country is responsible for the future of its nation, shaping its government so that this responsibility goes on for many years. Meanwhile, we have the impression that structurally this budget does not respond to the great problems of Poles and participates in a great fraud. This fraud is simply a lack of response to the structural problems of the state. How can we close our eyes to the fact that hospitals are getting more and more indebted, that our queues are getting longer, that there's really drama in the SORs? How can we close our eyes and not respond to budget challenges? How can we close our eyes that there is a depreciation of the profession of teacher, that there is a drain of the best staff from this profession? How can we close our eyes to official poverty (the bell), rising salaries, increasing commitments, and less and less opportunities to pay good workers? Closing your eyes is a kind of fraud, cheating on your own constituents. And only one business - the budget for the propaganda of the ruling party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u96	Thank you, sir. After the call to open my eyes, I invite Mr. Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking of eye opening, this is September 28th. During the election campaign, at the meeting in Koło, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, in response to your expectations regarding the hospital and the bypass, said: Cases concerning the hospital will be settled, because the Hospital Modernization Fund is for this, and about this bypass, because I do not have all 100 bypasses in my head, I will ask Mr Czarnecki. They said it would cost PLN 30.40 million, so the Prime Minister says: This amount in this budget will certainly fit. It did not fit into the memory of the Prime Minister this ring road in Kole and did not fit in the government document concerning 100 bypasses. I would like to ask, in view of the above appropriate minister, whether a change of this programme is envisaged and whether, in view of the promise made by the Prime Minister, this ring road of the Circle will be there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second thing, a fund for county hospitals - less than 2 billion and 14 billion debt. Are there additional funds in the budget for the current year for the restructuring of county hospitals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. I'm curious about that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Everyone in this room has repeatedly stated that Poland's development is driven by local governments - they were and are. And what has the government been doing over the years? The government is losing it, limiting the budget of the local government. For several months, local governments have been protesting, writing, appealing to the Prime Minister, appealing to Members. The association of cities, the union of powiats, the Silesian union of cities and powiats, municipalities and powiats - everyone is killing and saying: what havoc you have done in local governments when it comes to financial resources. That's over 10 billion zlotys they've lost. What did they lose on? In tax shares, in education reform, in health care. There is a shortage of money not only for the tasks of the local government, but also for government tasks. After all, local authorities are responsible for daycare, kindergarten, education, roads, sidewalks, social services, communication and hospitals. I wanted to ask the Minister how much money (the bell) for compensation for all the actions that the government has taken, for this policy pursued by the government, the government intends to introduce and transfer to the local governments in the new budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u100	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak from the parliamentary club of the Left is asked to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very short and simple question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, who were you and your government planning this budget for? Who do you expect to be impressed by the word "balanced" that you've been changing through all the cases? Perhaps it will impress the foreign business elites for which you have worked your entire adult life and for which you will probably work after you leave politics. Did you, Prime Minister, make this budget so that you could enter your CV into the banker's résumé later, how well can you tighten your belt? I ask you this, Prime Minister, because what in the case of the financial analysis of the Spanish employers of the Prime Minister will bring joy, for ordinary Poles and Poles can be a sentence. Did you know that Czechs spend more than twice as much on oncology per person as Poland? Is saving the life and health of Poles less important than sustainability in the title of the budget? Aren't you ashamed, Prime Minister, to balance your budget with long-term queues to doctors, closed hospitals (the bell), collecting money to people with disabilities? This budget is the budget of the financial elite, which, like Prime Minister Morawiecki only yesterday, tells nurses that the hunger payout is enough for them, because it is cheap in Poland. Your balanced budget, Prime Minister, is a budget balanced by the harm, suffering and poverty of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris of the Civic Coalition. If there isn't, I'll ask Mrs Daria Gosek-Polish from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, much has been said about responsibility in budgeting. Then I'll ask you about that responsibility. Is it responsible to pay very low wages to social workers, to social workers? Is it responsible to lock up babies in smaller towns? Is the underfunding of collective transport responsible? Is the underfunding of education and the transfer of costs to local governments responsible? Is it responsible to direct funds from the budget for investments that devastate the environment, such as the Vistula mine excavation, such as river regulation, the IWT programme? Is this responsible in times of climate crisis? Ladies and gentlemen! We have underinvested public services, we have State-funded unnecessary or harmful investments. It's not responsible, and that's the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u104	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Smishek from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking today about the budget, how our country will operate in 2020. And today we have an outrageous situation. There is nothing in the budget about how the Law and Justice, which today takes responsibility for the state and for the state's finances, intends to take care of, intends to reward the judicial administration. Today in Poland we have a discussion about the rule of law, about the place of judges in the exercise of power, about the judicial authority, but there is no mention of how to reward those who work hard and their work is often invisible. In recent years, 20,000 have left the judicial administration. persons. Why? That's because they're starving. And Law and Justice (the bell) speaks a lot about the justice system, but it did not really care how it intended to build the corps of this staff service and keep them in these workplaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u106	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Marta, from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. If there isn't, I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have the most polluted air in Europe. We demand concrete, firm action to remedy this situation. Poland as the only country has not signed a commitment to reduce the use of coal by 2030. The government, Prime Minister Morawiecki, explains this by protecting our national good, which is black gold, or coal. Meanwhile, in 1990 only 1% fossil fuels used in Poland were imported and last year it was 1/3 fossil fuels. We import coal from Mozambique, Australia, and we don't know where it's coming from. Our coal is on the heaps, while our air is polluting, not reaching the renewable (Bell) energy source, after the green energy. Why were all the requests made - by the Left and not only - on this matter, as far as the state budget is concerned, rejected by the PiS already at first reading?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u108	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Krawczyk from the Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Within the next two days, we will conclude work on the state budget for 2020, a budget that has already been proven in this House many times - neither balanced nor pro-development. However, thanks to the Members of the Civic Coalition, it has the chance to be even a little better in what is not political and, most importantly, will help the development of local communities. We will vote on Friday on the amendments tabled by the opposition, including eight proposals for Lublin and Lublin. These are the construction of a science centre in Lublin, senior activation center, rest center, reconstruction of the Nephrology Clinic in PSK4, reconstruction of al. Kraśnicka, the construction of a very important bypass of Nałęczów, which is not included in the plan of 100 bypasses for Poland, the construction of an important roundabout in Łukow and the fitting of the hospital there. All these requests were rejected by the PiS Members at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. I therefore call on the Members of the PIS from Lublin Region (the bell) to raise their hands for matters which are so important to the people of our region. If you want to take credit for this success, but make a commitment to these investments, don't knock them out because they come from initiatives from Lublin doctors, scientists or seniors. It's all in your hands. Courage! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u110	Thank you very much. In the near future, we will see how the PiS politicians respond to this appeal. Now Mrs. Catherine Ueberhan, Member of the Parliamentary Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What does a balanced budget mean according to the current government? Unfortunately, this is an example of creative accounting. This is an example of a structural deficit of at least PLN 52 billion, because 28.5 billion has been pushed beyond the budget into various funds, including the Solidarity Fund or the Self-Government Road Fund. It's 24 billion, which have been raised from one-off payments and are to finance fixed expenditure. After all, the transfer of the costs of education deformity into local governments is also 14 billion hospital debt. When we conclude all this, it turns out that this budget is not balanced at all. Then I ask the question: How will the government really explain this unsustainable budget and how will it explain not taking into account the opposition's amendments, some of which were also implementing (the bell) the electoral promises of Law and Justice? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u112	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Olichwer from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! In August last year Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki appeared in Zabrze. On the wall of Arena Zabrze he announced further investments supporting sports infrastructure in the Silesian Voivodeship as part of the next edition of the program "Sportowa Polska - Program for the development of local sports infrastructure." During this visit, the Prime Minister, remembering the times of Górnik Zabrze's greatness, promised to allocate PLN 3 million for the construction of an annual football field with heated turf and for the renovation of the sports hall in Zabrze for young people. Therefore, I would like to ask in the context of the budgetary debate: Has the government planned in this year's budget for these investments and will they be implemented this year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul from the parliamentary club of the Left. Absent. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. The hole is a good district, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone is jealous of the Silesian voivodship. No wonder, a Member from Katowice is also a prime minister who created an excellent program for the Silesian province called Morawiecki's plan. Nothing but enjoy, billions of zlotys for the voivodship on the roads, for the railroad, for the widely understood infrastructure. It's money for the economy, money for industry. You could exchange it for a very long time, and I'll just add modern technologies. These are the real problems of the region, but - and here I will probably surprise the representatives of Law and Justice - it is impossible to drive on paper roads. To justify the thesis, I will use examples. The road S1, whose expansion in the Sosnowiec region was planned in Morawiecki's plan for 2017 - as it was, it was. Modernization of the PKP station in the pine district of Maczki - also implemented with the same technology. Not to mention, nomen omen, about modern technologies. Nothing even touched it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So when will you go from words to deeds? Because in fact, and I bow my forehead here, you can speak beautifully, but you can write even better, which is the best example of this program for Silesia, but people should be respected, not deceived and made empty promises only on sheets of paper. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u116	Thank you very much. For these requests I'm also joining you because we're going crazy with you on the same ground. Enjoy your madness. Mrs Magdalena Beyat from the parliamentary club of the Left. We're a little lazy. Member of Mirosław Nykiel, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. If it's a committee meeting, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Economic slowdown is already a fact. For five years, you were lucky to have an exceptional economic situation. And yet you didn't meet the goals of the Responsible Development Strategy, you didn't balance the budget, you hid over 70 billion, you didn't cause investment growth. And my general question: Have you at least prepared such a financial pillow for the deconuncture? If so, where is she and how long does she keep us safe? The second question concerns the region I come from. On the DK1 route Katowice - Bielsko there is a crossroad in Pszczyna, which was to be built already in 2014. This year you threw them out of your plans, and Pszczyna - and I will add - is in the unsavory front of the cities with smog, through the traffic jams that are there. Everyone who comes through this road knows that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: Are there measures to build a crossroads in Pszczyna?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u118	Thank you very much. Where's the applause? [[Applause]] Silesian Voivodeship is still under attack. Member of Przemysław Koperski from the Left parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's as much time as the Oscars, so I'm moving on to the point. In Poland we have over 3 million Cinderellas, which together with the Polish government are co-responsible for often exceeding several thousand percent of air pollution in Polish towns. We fill 36 places in the list of the 50 most polluted cities in Europe according to WHO. The inhabitants and local governments are appealing, and together with them I am also asking for money for the exchange of old sources of heat for green. Smog causes 45,000 deaths. people, our fellow citizens, every year. Two years ago, you promised PLN 103 billion to fight for clean air in a ten-year perspective. This year it should be a minimum of PLN 10 billion. Unfortunately, there's no money in this budget. You're also rejecting the anti-cocci program. Where are the means to fight Cinderella? Where's the money for the $300,000 exchange? Old stoves this year? We do not want to wait a hundred years for you to solve the problem of smog in Poland, and unfortunately the current rate of exchange of cinderella gives this perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u120	Mr President, I'm gonna give you the Oscar statue today. You fit in the time limit as one of the few. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u121	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! This budget we are discussing is the best proof that another institution, which is on your list for destruction after independent courts, is independent local authorities. There are already visible signs of what you want to do with the local government, throwing all the costs from the budget into local governments and treating local governments as a cash cow. In my city, Łódź, for the first time in over 20 years, there was a decline in PIT revenue when it compares December 2019 to December 2018. The same thing happened in January. This is a visible trace of your hand, your assassination of the greatest achievements of Polish democracy, which is self-government. I appeal for reason and I appeal to you to create a reserve that will compensate for the costs of these stupid, unwise decisions concerning local governments throughout Poland in all municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u122	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. I'm glad to announce, because we've known each other a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u123	Good. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A balanced budget should also be a responsible budget, a budget that will patch holes, literally and figuratively. One of the investments in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which has been not arranged for years, is the implementation of the national road No 10. This investment would reduce the exclusion of communication, ensure greater security and lead to a situation where the inhabitants of Torun and Bydgoszcz will simply feel safe on the road and safe when it comes to time of movement. This episode, which today needs to be realized, is an investment of several hundred million zlotys. I have tabled an amendment this year, it is about PLN 250 million to implement this section. I would like to ask you to accept this amendment and to implement an investment that will improve security in the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u124	Mr President, you asked nicely that I think you have a deal. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 October 2019 Minister Adamczyk announced the construction of a railway link in the area of Jaworzna, which would significantly reduce the time of the train from Krakow to Olkus to 45 minutes. Currently Olkusz is a city with quite large communication exclusion. On weekdays only six trains depart from Olkus, on weekends - four a day, while none go towards Krakow, even though Krakow is such a center of life for the inhabitants of Olkus. Besides, your Olkuski Member, Mr Osuch, wrote about it two years ago, then you didn't find any money for this investment. On the other hand, as Minister Adamczyk promised, we have tabled an amendment with Mr Owl. I hope so, and I ask you this, and I ask you, will you find in 2020 for this investment, on the railway of Kraków - Olkusz, 80 million PLN in the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u127	Thank you very much. Minister! High Izbo! Well, I asked Mr Telus to come to the gym, but somehow he doesn't want to hear what I want to say. Mr President, perhaps you are watching somewhere, you have a preview of yourself when it comes to the agricultural budget. I agree 100% with Mrs Skowronska, and she is right about that by assessing the 2020 budget. I will try to believe you, on one condition - I am talking about education here - if the government or the Minister of Agriculture takes over the technical school in Niezychów in the Pilski district. If he takes over, I'm gonna try to shorten your nose, which was stretching out on the seymoral platform. I wish you well, sir. One more thing, Mr. Marshal. I will not forget you when it comes to the disability fund, the Solidarity Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll never forget it, because it's just barbaric, what about these people? You've done and done, the people he's experienced, the people who are sick. You're taking their last money? It's just inhuman. This will be an outrage for you for the rest of your days. You don't just do that. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u128	Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Mr Kaczyński! Your politics, your distribution, have led to the fact that the average man has nothing to do with his savings. By artificially raising the minimum wage, the benefits, you make no sense to save. The interest on deposits doesn't even cover inflation, and the money held monthly loses value. You're teaching people that only stupid people save money because your country pays the most money to sit on welfare, and those stupid people who are still saving up for some reason, because they're afraid they're gonna die in retirement, they can't believe that they're gonna drop the value of the gold, and they want to get away with their savings somewhere, so they don't have anything to invest in, so they're putting their money in real estate, which is why housing prices are gonna explode. The Pole can no longer afford to buy his own M. In Warsaw it is several thousand zlotys per meter, in Wrocław - 9 thousand. And more is normal. You've made Poles homeless. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you aware that irresponsible government policy will lead to a speculation bubble in the real estate market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Simple, short question, e.g. to the members of district 32 and, of course, members of the governing party. Mr Czarzasty and I have tabled a number of amendments concerning the hole and district 32. We have offered support for the observatory oncology centre in Dąbrowa Górnicza. These are several hundred thousand people who can be protected and supported in the disease. Repair and implementation of voivodship roads improving the comfort of people's lives, i.e. voivodship roads No. 910 in Będzin, No. 790 in Dąbrowa Górnicza and the district of Będziński, the S1 link with Euroterminal in Sławkow, so that this area will develop and this euroterminal will work properly in terms of logistics. Of course, we have not forgotten about the feasibility study (The Bell) of the Silesian Metropolitan Railway or about the basics of education for the youngest, about the pre-school-crunch team in Siewierz. I ask you to support and to consider whether those things that create better comfort of life and concern health care for the inhabitants of the deep and not only are not worth leaning over and supporting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. Which time is it, sir, today? Mr. Marshal, this is the second time. Wonderful.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u133	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Government representatives! President Kowalczyk talked about the fact that as a result of the PiS amendments, many institutions, constitutional bodies, had reduced budgets of the institutions, but in fact the biggest cuts affected the institution of the Ombudsman. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, is making an amendment to increase the expenditure of the Ombudsman's Office by PLN 14 million. First, the Ombudsman uses the building in Warsaw at ul. Longer. It is a palace, a historic object, which requires immediate renovation and adaptation work. This is the Treasury resource. The second point is the regional offices of the Ombudsman (the bell), 12 regional offices which require funding. We call on the High House to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u134	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left and Bydgoszcz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During my work on the 2020 budget, I tabled an amendment on the S10 road linking Bydgoszcz with Torun. But, Minister Adamczyk, don't even read this, just make a decision, a decision on the construction of this road, because this road is marked by crosses, is marked by death, is meant by the victims who have given their lives on this road. There isn't a week that someone doesn't die on this road between Bydgoszcz and Torun. You said the predecessors didn't do it. Only the predecessors are no longer five years old. I'm making a huge appeal because on the one hand, This is a fundamental issue concerning the development of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, the development of Bydgoszcz (The Bell), but on the other hand I do it out of respect for those and for the memory of those who gave their lives on this road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If you think you can forget about Szczecin's cases, because it is a city nearly 600 km from Warsaw, then you are mistaken. I will remind you of these matters and the most important investments for our city often. Among the more than 500 amendments tabled to this budget were very important issues for our city and region. First of all, construction of a new headquarters of the voivodship emergency station. This is a very important issue for the safety and health of the inhabitants of our city and region. For over two years we have been waiting for funding from the central budget, unfortunately it is not there. Let's change that. Secondly, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that the government finally grants money for the construction of a memorial centre in the historical dining room in Szczecin Shipyard. Over two years ago, you promised backup. You haven't done anything at all. We've proposed that this money should finally be found. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thirdly, the design of the western road bypassing the city of Szczecin. A very important road for residents not only Szczecin, but also the whole region. An investment of national scope, so please support these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Coalition. We are moving on to Ms Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard for some time about the noisy announcements about the construction of city and town bypasses. I have a proposition for the Prime Minister. It is the town of Sośnicowice in the district of Gliwice. There's a voivodship road running through the middle of town. It's used for trucks, trucks, etc. - all the transportation. There is a design prepared, there are permits for the reconstruction of DW 408. The first stage is the construction of the Sośnicowice ring road. Vote for this amendment. By the way, the Prime Minister will fulfill his promise to build the bypasses. [[Applause]] He's checking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u140	Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Coalition. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Government! You're in a hurry to introduce rules to change rules on pedestrian crossings. You want this bill to enter into force quickly. I ask: How are pedestrian crossings prepared? What technical elements for road safety are currently equipped with? Are they lit up? Do they have pulsating elements that respond to the approaching pedestrian? No. The Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition therefore presents an amendment providing for the provision of resources for this purpose. The second question concerns the bypasses. You've introduced 100 bypasses. This is great propaganda, but the construction of any of the bypasses in the Łódź Voivodeship will not be carried out earlier than in 2022. This is a mockery of voters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more question. Why doesn't the bypass register in the Łódź region have a Sulejow ring road on the S12 expressway? That's where people die. Why? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I want to raise the issue of drought. Today, on several occasions, Members of the Law and Justice have spoken about how successful it is to spend PLN 2 billion on removing the effects of drought. Good. I'm asking you to prevent her. Removing effects is much worse than preventing drought. It is good that the effects are removed, but I ask: What measures the government intends to take to secure for the village a decent and proud - as Mr Telus said today - drinking water and water for farming. That water's missing. How much money is provided for this purpose, that is, for the construction of water supply networks where they are not, and for the construction of water retention tanks? That's what's missing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we don't, ladies and gentlemen, it will be a great tragedy. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u144	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. I'm supposed to be the last one, and I'm not the last one. Madame, you are not the last. You'll always be in front of someone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u145	Minister! I have three things - two small, one slightly bigger. Castle in Rzeszow. For many years, the promised transfer to the local government and in this respect the financing of the construction of a new district court. It's not in the budget. Declarations have been made, among others. by Minister Ziobara. I asked for a minor amendment - 10 million. I'm hoping there'll be a modest $10 million. Mielec train station. He's the only city with about 65,000. residents. You're building new tracks - there's no new station, and there's no station program. And one last thing if we want to help local governments and entrepreneurs in Podkarpacie. I wrote an amendment on the reserve so that local governments and entrepreneurs could be helped with the money lost (the bell) in the organized restructuring of one of the banks. I'm counting on these three minor corrections and finding the money. I think the issue of entrepreneurs and local governments in Podkarpacie is known to you and money will be found. Thank you. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u146	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Marta Wcisło from the Civic Coalition. This will be the last person to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2020 budget is the propaganda budget. Despite the good economic conditions in Poland and the world, unfortunately, we are experiencing a great crisis. Public service crisis. Health care. The collapse of health services, closure of branches, debt of about PLN 14 billion, of which 2 billion are liabilities due, a crisis in the form of underfunding of health services, but also education and self-governments. It's also a budget of social injustice, taking money from people with disabilities, underestimating the maintenance fund. As an opposition, we make all these changes as changes to the budget. And what, ladies and gentlemen? In this room, Mr PiSu says that these are lavages. Flushing! Education, health care They're rinses. This is how people are treated, ladies and gentlemen (the bell), citizens and the opposition. Are those rinses? Answer yourselves. Because in this courtroom, to hear from a Member that money for health care is spoils, it's just a scandal. Thank you. [[Applause]] Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u148	Thank you very much, Member. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski. Minister, a red-hot room full of messengers and Members is waiting for your answer. There you go, you've got 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u149	Dear Marshal, In that case, I will try not to heat this atmosphere again and only to answer a few questions in substance, quite synthetically. There weren't many specific questions. There were many reservations and such very general: debt, queues, the terrible situation of county hospitals, the pay of nurses... That's a big deal. Madam President, these are very big things, but little concrete. So maybe I'll try to focus on concrete things, not just talk about how terrible it is, and show some aspects of how it is, objectively, as it is. In turn, maybe I will skip the debt, I have talked about it repeatedly from this speaker, and tomorrow I will answer the questions of the current Members quite precisely. As for the debt of Polish hospitals and the situation related to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, as I have tried to explain many times: we cannot look at nominal debt, 14 billion PLN. We need to refer them relatively to certain measures that are suitable for this. For total expenditure on health care... But you have to pay. ...to the costs of health care services or to the costs of the National Health Fund, which it allocates in the field of hospital care. Then the 14 billion looks different because it seems that these indicators are better than they were a few years ago. But more money. If we are talking about a crisis in the health sector, in hospital, in debt-weighted crisis, and we are looking at, for example, that the NFZ commitment to hospital health today is 30%, and 8 years ago - 38%, what can we call what was 5 or 8 years ago? But it's more important tomorrow, so I'm not going into this discussion today. But there are a few things that, in fact, seem to me to be overturning the real picture. We've heard from this speaker about a terrible situation when it comes to nurses' wages. It is me in the form of an answer that invites you to read a long interview with the President of the General Council of Nurses and Obstetrics, the President of Zofia Malas. This is a fresh January interview, from which I will quote only the first sentence: Until 2015 Polish nursing was at a dead end. We all remember the waves of protests and white towns. It's gonna take years to rebuild, but you can finally see a chance to change. This opportunity to change is a strategy for the development of Polish nursing, the separation of services which nurses can finally carry out in order to replace doctors to some extent, e.g. advice on outpatient care or primary health care, of course, is an increase in the pay of nurses, it is of course the introduction of standards for nurses, it is a significant increase in the prestige of the profession, about which... Don't talk about nurses because they're already falling... But if that was the case, I would like to refer to it. And I think the nurses don't fall over, which is what the president of the board is talking about in particular, so I'm really happy to send it back to this material. Nurse's daughter. There was also talk of queues in which patients are present. So let's take a look at the real actions taken recently: the introduction of limitless cataracts, endoprosthesis, plasticity, computer tomography, resonance. These are actions that affect and have just affected the shortening of queues in these ranges. But there were many questions: What's next? Further addressed to the public consultation regulation of the Minister of Health on further unlimited benefits, this time in terms of queues in which Polish patients wait the longest, in areas such as neurology, orthopedics, endocrinology or cardiology. It's already becoming a fact. This regulation is now being consulted and this year Poles will have access to these benefits in a unlimited manner. This, of course, also involves valuation. The valuation, which operators in the field of outpatient specialist care have been waiting for for a long time. The valuation, which has never been this high - almost 20% this year, since 1 January 2021, another 10%. These are the actual actions that actually have to shorten these queues. Several times there has been a thread related to the hospital modernisation fund and generally the health Friday. The five for health is not a project that was supposed to appear in the first 100 days of the government. This five for the first 100 days of the government was defined by Prime Minister Morawiecki and there is indeed prevention of adults, 40+ people. But already the changes in the hospital modernisation fund or long-term care and ZOL-i were objectives not set at the level of the first 100 days of the government, only at the level of the term of office. The work in this area is being carried out and it is not surprising that the current budget does not see the effects of setting up a hospital modernisation fund, since this fund is only being developed, we are only really creating its assumptions and its creation will only be announced this year, so it is likely that the effects of setting up this fund will be visible in the budget of the following year. So is oncology. I can't agree completely with the fact that there are no funds for oncology, the promised billion doesn't exist. The promised billion exists. The Council of Ministers adopted a multiannual programme for the National Institute of Oncology. It has been set at almost PLN billion, over PLN 800 million, and these funds in the following budgets are provided, the contract is signed, it is implemented as much as possible. I think the debt issue will be tomorrow, so it's about tomorrow in detail. And in a synthetic way, I referred to those questions, perhaps not the questions, but the general demands that you have made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u150	Thank you, Minister. Minister Anna Moscow asked for the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. She asked, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u151	It's okay. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the specific investments that were asked about. The first question concerned the construction, expansion of the flood shaft in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. This investment is started, this year we plan to spend 13 million on it. In total, it is an investment with a budget of 20 million, implemented in the second class of hydrotechnical structures. There was also a question about the Iron Polder. The selection of the contractor will be completed on 25 February this year, while the whole of this large and complex investment is due to end in January 2023. The third question about a specific investment concerned the protection of Opole. Opole is also included in the investment plan of Polish Waters for this year, i.e. 20 million for construction and assembly works and 1 million PLN for damages. Mr Galla also asked for 680 million loans from the World Bank, but also for the share of this amount in the entire investment budget of Polish Waters. It is a loan to Oder and Vistula, two contracts signed still in the years 2005 to 2015 to continue the major flood prevention programme, nothing new in the budget of Polish Waters, in the flood budget. I will refer in a few sentences, and more broadly in writing, to these numerous questions, to the allegations that there is no action to prevent drought, retention and all those activities related to water scarcity. Of course, you can scream about climate like Greta, but you can also consistently implement actions to counteract droughts as the Polish government does. This year, over PLN 2 billion is allocated in Polish Waters for investments in water management. These are investments for the regeneration of rivers, among others. with WWF, continued from the previous year, these are the repair of jazz mucus, these are projects for trough retention, the Kąty-Myscow reservoirs, the Wielwieś Monastery and many other investments, which are located in these 2 billion. In addition, I would like to remind you that we are finishing the development of a large.Stop drought programme!, a water scarcity programme that will include a large investment plan of over 10 billion with a view to 2027. There are 94 large investments, plus a whole list of investments agreed with local governments. As far as farmers are concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture will certainly present more in writing. I would like to remind you of the Rural Development Programme, with a wide irrigation programme and grants of 100,000. for farmers, these are among others. construction of small tanks and wells. On the part of Polish Waters there is a simplified procedure, such tanks and investments can only be carried out after a simplified notification. I am also sending to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to look at water and sewage management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u152	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State in the Ministry of Sport, Ms Anna Krupka, asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the sport program, Poland - this is the 2019 edition - received two investments in Zabrze, which were asked about here today, i.e. The City Sports and Recreation Centre in Zabrze, and the investment is the reconstruction of the sports area of the arena of the sports and sports hall at ul. Matejki 6 in Zabrze, funding is PLN 807 700. The stadium in Zabrze is the second investment, which consists in rebuilding the football field of the club Górnik Zabrze at ul. Olympic in Zabrze with heating of the football court, and the total funding is PLN 2 195 200. The total cost of these two investments, the total sum of the amounts allocated to these two investments from the Ministry of Sport is over PLN 3 million - PLN 300 2900. So we fulfill our promises, we keep our promises. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced funding for these two investments in the amount of 3 million. This amount is even slightly higher. We keep our word, we fulfill our promises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u154	Thank you very much. There were more questions out there, but I understand that these two things are okay. Mr Andrzej Bittel, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, asked for the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry, I came straight from the Infrastructure Committee meeting. I answer your questions. As regards the issue of the Mielec railway station, Mielec railway station is included in the list of planned investments for the next EU perspective. Depending on the allocation, it will be implemented. As regards the question concerning the ring road in the Łódź voivodship, I would like to say that the 100 ring road construction program contains tasks at different stages of preparation. We plan on these 100 bypasses that this year tenders will be announced in the case of 15 tasks. Subsequent invitations to tender will be published systematically. This will ensure the distribution of expenditure in a uniform manner, which is not without significance for the market of contractors. In Łódź Voivodeship the first tender should be in 2022. Sulejow's perimeter could not be included in the program because the program does not include expressways. Sulejov's perimeters will be built within the S12 road. They will be included in the road construction programme, which is being developed. In answer to, you can say, the traditional question about the Beskid Way of Integration, I would like to say that in this respect an amendment to the state budget is not needed. The preparatory work appropriations have already been secured under Part 39: Transport. An environmental decision has been issued in the case of investments. The programme concept will now be developed and geological studies will be carried out. The work carried out will enable the task to be carried out in the future of the EU. It is worth saying that this road will be in the standard of expressway. To that end, the Regulation has been amended. This decision took place in 2016. There was a question about the Nałęczów ring road as part of the 100 bypass program. I'm sure you all know the program. The programme concerns national roads and therefore the Nałęczów bypass could not be included in this program, because there is a voivodeship road through Nałęczów. Therefore, the local government should be an investor in its case. There was a question about the modernisation of rolling stock. I would like to remind you that PKP Intercity is implementing a huge programme of modernization of rolling stock. It is about PLN 7 billion. Regional companies have their programmes, including EU funding. The money is. Of course, in the following years we will make efforts to ensure that these tendering procedures and the implementation of investments in rolling stock take place. There was a question about the wheel ring road. It is worth to say that the Circle already has a ring road on the national road 92 with a bridge on Wart. Currently the proposed ring road of Koła concerns the district road, which is managed by the district government. The district road, not the national road, means this bypass could not be included in the program of 100 bypasses. If the local government prepares such an investment, then of course it will be able to apply to the Local Roads Fund. There was a question about the S19 and the achievements of the PiS government within the Podlaskie Voivodeship. It has to be said that it was the Government of Law and Justice that provided resources for the whole S19 cycle in the National Road Construction Programme. Previously, these funds were provided only on the Lublin - Rzeszów section. The whole task was already prepared in 2019. A tender has been launched for implementation, e.g. for the implementation of the section Rzeszów - Babica. The deal's about to be signed. For the Podlaskie voivodship tenders will be announced later this year. Recently, the Minister of Infrastructure provided additional funds for the implementation of the section of the S19 road in Podlaskie Voivodeship. In the case of bypasses - because there was a question about bypasses - Suchowola and Sztabina the tender will be announced this year, and the completion of works is scheduled for 2025. Białobrzegi - the tender will be launched in 2021 and the completion of the construction is planned for 2027. There was a question about the Sośnicowice ring road. The perimeter of this village will be built as a voivodship road. So see point one, as we say - the bypass program applies to national roads. Of course, the voivodship can apply for funding from the general subsidy reserve, of which the road manager should know very well. The Pszczyna node is prepared by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Following detailed analyses, it turned out that the original solutions could not be implemented. An alternative option has been developed, which is much more expensive. For this reason, there has been a return to discussions with the local government about this option. The talks have not yet been completed by finding and agreeing on a new option. There was a question about the railway link in Jaworzno-Szczakowa. PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe are conducting conceptual works on the construction of this link. Once conceptual and project work is completed, the cost can be determined and the necessary financial resources can be discussed. On the S10 road in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, I would like to inform you that this sequence has been divided into two main implementation systems. Episode Bydgoszcz - Toruń in accordance with the decision of KERM was aimed at implementation in the PPP system. The procedure for issuing environmental decisions is currently underway. This process is carried out by the Regional Environment Directorate. After obtaining the environmental decision, it will be possible to issue a tender for the selection of a partner. The remaining sections are prepared to pass the implementation phase in the future financial perspective of the European Union. The S10 road is one of the priority investments of the next programme. The road is in Sosnowiec. The task of expanding the road S1 is prepared jointly with the local authorities. According to the agreement, the project documentation is prepared by the local government. The latest technical arrangements for ensuring safety and compliance with technical conditions are currently underway. Even today, there was a meeting. Once the documentation has been prepared, the task will be completed. Finally, but not least, the question of the road S12 west. Part of the reply was already given as part of the previous reading. Within the framework of the so-called. questions I wanted to say that there are planned projects of bypasses: the East - for the years 2026 and 2028, Gostynia - 2022 and2024, Kalisza - 2024 and 2026. These bypasses will be implemented in GP standard: main accelerated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u156	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Tomasz Robaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, because this is another debate on the budget and these general questions, when it comes to the Minister of Finance, are repeated. One such question concerns the question of budgetary sustainability and what this balanced budget is. I've already explained that in the first debate. This is the balancing of expenditure and revenue of this most important part of public finances, which covers more than half of public expenditure in the country. And is it a good thing that she's balanced or not? Well, because it reduces public debt, it makes the sustainability of public finances possible in the longer term. But the state budget is only part of public finances and this part is sustainable. Public finances, on the other hand, are generally complete. It's going to be about a 1.2% deficit. GDP in the whole public finance sector, but this is still within the framework of... We are very much sticking to what the European Commission requires us to do, with a deficit below the 3% reference value. GDP. What is repeated here quite often, and what I said in the first debate, is that at the same time there are deziderates to pass on as much expenditure as possible, that some areas of public funding are lacking, so amendments are tabled to increase expenditure on education subsidies, health care, etc. On the other hand, at the same time, there are allegations of why there is so much expenditure outside the budget and why public finances as such are not sustainable. You can't have both. That is, if spending were to be increased for all spheres of social life, of course either the budget would not be balanced or public finances would be even less balanced. Mr Cymanski asked what is the source of funding for the amendments tabled in general. I do not know what it is like now with the amendments tabled at second reading, we have not analysed this yet, but with regard to the amendments tabled at first reading or at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the amount of PLN 7.5 billion was supposed to be a source of funding for various increased expenditures from the heading: Service of public debt, which, of course, should be done cannot be, because this public debt, which is and which fortunately is now falling, must, of course, be served. And the second part of these amendments for a source of revenue increased by a total of over PLN 22 billion. You have said on many sides that in a situation where we are already behind the peak of the economy, these predictions of the Ministry of Finance are not as conservative as ever. They are still within the limits of what the various financial institutions are forecasting, but indeed it would not be possible to find the amount of PLN 22 billion of additional revenue in the state budget in order to finance all the amendments tabled. And one last thing. There was a question of action regarding the restructuring of one of the banks in Podkarpacie. Such measures have already been taken to ensure financial liquidity, in particular public finance units, local government units. On the other hand, tomorrow, as I know, there will be a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on which this issue will be the subject and, I believe, the subject will be discussed in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u158	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts (prints Nos 114 and 201). I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. At its meeting on 9 January 2020, the Sejm referred this draft law to two committees. The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 29 January 2020, requests that this draft be adopted together with the amendments. The Commission voted over 30 amendments that have been incorporated into this draft law and additionally 6 minority proposals have been submitted to this draft. What is very important, extremely important, this bill assumes first of all giving Poles free choice in their decision whether these funds collected in open pension funds will go to individual pension accounts or to the Social Insurance Institution. This is a completely different situation than in 2014, when the Civic Platform ruled. What is particularly important here and worth emphasising, literally in this bill, is a confirmation that the funds saved in individual pension accounts will be private property of the person saving on the use of funds at the time of retirement in the future. So we have a real choice that every person who has raised funds in the OFE will face, and the question of confirming that these funds that will be held in individual pension accounts will be private funds. These are the most important issues which have been the subject of the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u160	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts, prints No 114 and 201. The proposed law provides for the conversion of OFE into specialized open investment funds operating individual pension accounts powered by assets from OFE, which currently amounts to about PLN 162 billion. Each of the approximately 15 million members of the OFE will have the right to choose between the default option of transferring funds from OFE to IKE, with the possibility of further voluntary supply or to move entirely to the first pillar in the ZUS, where the funds collected in the OFE will be recorded in an individual account and the corresponding assets will be transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund. These funds will be managed by an investment fund whose sole shareholder will be the Polish Development Fund. Payment of IKE funds will be possible after retirement age and free of any taxes. However, since pensions from the Social Security Office are taxed at a rate of 17% or 32% , for the sake of balance, funds transferred from OFE to IKE will be charged a flat-rate fee of 15% on a single basis , spread out into two instalments. The funds from this fee will go to the Social Insurance Fund. The proposed solution gives insured persons a real right to choose a pension based on two pillars. It guarantees the private nature of the savings on the IKE, which will be inherited. The main objective of the Act is to increase the rate of savings directly linked to the increase in Poles' income. Among the main factors limiting the possibility of generating savings in Poland are among others. low level of financial assets of Poles and inefficiencies of the current model of operation of OFE, resulting in low pensions from the second pillar. In many countries, pension assets collected by citizens in the capital pillar exceed 20% or even 50% GDP, e.g. in Denmark, the United States, Canada, Sweden, Finland or Japan. The existence of such systems has a positive impact on the long-term sustainability of public finances and on the safety of citizens' finances after the cessation of employment. The changes in the pension system introduced in 2014 led to the actual liquidation of the capital pillar in Poland. These changes have undermined citizens' confidence in the capital market and the whole pension system. The government assumes that the changes introduced will significantly increase the rate of return on funds from the OFE, which currently amounts to around 2,5% while foreign pension funds reach double-digit return rates. It should therefore be considered that the proposed amendment would benefit the current members of the OFE, even if they are entitled to remain in the capital fund until the retirement age without the transfer of funds to the Social Security Office, as it is now. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the Government's draft Prints Act No 114 and 201 and submit an additional eight amendments. These are mainly editorial and legislative amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have to start with history. In 2014, the members of OFE learned that half of their pension savings, i.e. those held in Treasury bonds, will be transferred to the Social Security Office and registered on the sub-account of each insured person. Two things were important to us back then. First of all, no insured person can lose a single penny. Secondly, the funds on the sub-account must be inherited as they were inherited from open pension funds. And that's what happened. What's the PiS doing today? PiS behaves like a banker who does good business, but good for the bank and its management, unfortunately not for the client. This bill is a great business - great for financial institutions that make a fantastic deal, great for the government that has to patch up the budget hole and needs those tens of billions of zlotys, and great for PiS activists who will make a fortune on this deal because they will manage the Demographic Reserve Fund for a million-dollar salary. I think Mr Bartosz Marczuk and Mr Paul Boris are already wiping their hands with satisfaction. The only victim is a citizen, a future pensioner. Today we are talking about the future of Poles and Poles, about your retirement at a time when you are too old, too sick to work. Is there a Minister of Labour and Social Policy sitting in the Seym? No. The PiS sent Minister Buda. Minister Buda, who does not know about the pension system, has therefore taken the tactic of insulting Members of the opposition and mocking our fears. You are probably wondering, dear fellow countrymen, what the Ministry of Funds and Development has to do with the pension system - common, public. Nothing. But it has a lot to do with your retirement savings. Well, some of them will take away, and the remaining savings will be invested on the Stock Exchange, most likely in a company of the Treasury. In the same companies of the Treasury, about which Mr Suchoń said today that they lost 50 billion PLN, since they are managed by relatives and friends of the rabbit from PiS. The choice that PiS gives Poles is as follows: if you choose IKE, you will lose 15% again. your savings, and your pension will be significantly lower, because the Social Security Office will not charge you with the OFE, calculating the amount of future retirement. In addition, for these cut savings in the IKE you will not buy a lifetime pension, moreover, you do not even know that this public compulsory contribution will not melt due to the bess on the stock exchange or the fatal management of the Treasury companies by the PiS. The second option is: if you write a statement that you don't like to be robbed in broad daylight on a straight path, then your funds will be saved in the ZUS account. Unfortunately, as with PiS, they're fooling you again. They will not be entered in a sub-account, they will be entered in an ordinary account, an individual account of any insured person who is not subject to inheritance. That's not the end of the bad news. Well, the future contribution of such people will be written not in the sub-account, but in the ordinary account, which will be valued at a lower rate, because fewer and fewer people will be on the labour market. There's another piece of shit that PiS is doing to all future pensioners. Because people don't know how much money they have at the OFE, sometimes they don't even know what their resources are. How are they gonna make a decision if they don't know if the PiS is gonna rob them of $1.5,000? Or maybe 15,000. It's bad, 'cause it could be bad, too. In order to civilize this terrible, thieving bill at least a little bit, we're making four amendments. First, the liquidation of 15% of the racket, second, the funds are to be written down on the sub-account, [[Applause]] thirdly, the OFE, before making a decision, is to send information on how much each has in their account, fourthly, it is necessary to change investment policy because you introduce moral gambling and force Poles to invest 90% in shares. And since you are blindly rejecting all the amendments, just in case the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition (The Bell) will also file a motion to reject this law at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u164	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Human and intergenerational solidarity is the foundation of statehood, and the social security system is one of the key civilizational achievements. The State is, has been and will always be the sole and ultimate guarantee of pensions. It's not an ideal declaration, it's a fact. Even after the war, in a completely ruined country, pensions were paid and did not come from money collected before the war or from private banks, only from the current contributions of people who paid taxes. Let us have no doubt in the event of any disaster whether the economic or social crisis is not the banks that will save citizens and provide resources for the oldest, but, as always, the State will take care of it. More than 20 years ago, under pressure and dictation of international financial institutions, Poland, together with 29 other countries, left the principle of solidarity. Today, most of these countries have withdrawn from this reform. The reasons are simple, the whole operation was based from the beginning on a series of cynical lies, and its consequences everywhere were catastrophic. It was claimed that privatisation was necessary because pensions from the Social Security Office would be low and uncertain, whereas the OFE did not guarantee the amount of fees. Today, the average benefit from OFE is PLN 200 per month. People were told that they would travel as Germans or Americans to old age, but that these countries had never decided on private pensions. Significantly, the privatisations of the World Bank forced only South America and Central and Eastern Europe, and no other major economies decided to do so. It was alleged that ZUS does not earn, mismanage funds, that it is expensive to maintain. As the mantra has been said, banks will invest and increase their pension savings, only that from the very beginning the profits were to reach the funds themselves in the form of a horrendously high commission. As if this were not enough, the rate of return in OFE was many times lower than the revalorisation in the ZUS and administrative costs were many times higher. These are just some ideological pillars of OFE. The uprising of OFE has destabilised the pension system. Giving funds part of the contributions caused a gargonut hole in the ZUS, which we finance year after year from the state budget. The reform made the banks, and the citizens lost them. Retirement rates have fallen dramatically and continue to fall with the next year's retirement from OFE. All the financial burden and risks associated with economic change, increasing life expectancy, gender inequalities have been transferred to pensioners. The insurance system was only called. It is clear that an investment institution is not interested in compensating for crises or negative social and economic phenomena. A private company will by definition not pay decent pensions. It is in her interest to maximize her own profit, so pay out the lowest possible pension. In 2013, the Council Poles clearly showed their attitude towards capital pensions. Only 15% The insured decided to stay at OFE. Similarly, Poles are now fleeing PPK in mass. This is a clear signal from the public as the pension system expects. Therefore, today we should definitely close this tragic chapter, which was OFE. Unfortunately, the government's bill is pushing us in the opposite direction. The money from OFE will be transferred to IKE. Only at the express request of the insured person will they go to the ZUS. As a result, PLN 160 billion, which has so far been public funds, only managed by OFE, will now be privatized. Only in theory will this money belong to future pensioners. The funds will gain sole control over pension savings. Banks can therefore finance their own investments and squander money, destabilise the domestic market or trigger a financial crisis as in 2008. Your friend's out of business? You can buy even the most risky stock. At the most, a retirement pensioner gets a proverbial fig with poppy seeds. It is impossible to count the gates and possibilities of fraud that this law creates. Prime Minister Morawiecki is giving his colleagues a gift for PLN 160 billion. It's a pity that money is for friends and health care isn't there. The government spends less than PLN 100 billion on the health of Poles. This is 1/3 less than what he plans to allocate to the capital markets. The project also assumes that each of the savings transferred to IKE will pay 15% conversion fee. While the compensation of the savings tax rate in the ZUS and the IKE is somehow justified, the amount of the commission is drastically overstated. By accepting the government's grounds for charging the fee, the amount should be up to 9%. Proposed 15% there is no justification other than the fact that this amount is needed by the government to push the knee of this year's budget. The left is on the side of Polish workers and pensioners. We want safe and fit state pensions. We want the lowest guaranteed pension of PLN 1600. Therefore, the Left will not support the proposed project and will not submit amendments to it, because this project is not suitable for improvement, it is only suitable for basketball. We shall vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Jolanta Fedak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One can agree with my highly respected previous speaker, who claims that this project is not fit for amendment and is simply a legislative bubble. It is a legislative bubble in the sense of creating it, which is simply a bubble in which there are a lot of mistakes, but it is also a bomb planted under the public finance system. It allows to bring almost PLN 150 billion out of the state budget. This is a huge sum that would really be useful for the rencists, the pensioners, to pay their future pensions. Significantly, for many, many years, actually since 1999, there have been ideas on how to get to those large sums that are intended for pensions. Nothing wise was done at that time except that everyone was wondering, and best of all, the present government, how to shave something for themselves here. Telling people that this is privatisation, that this is giving their money away, is just a simple huck to the citizens, because it's not giving money to anyone, it's just putting financial institutions on some of the sums that are still in OFE. Of course, those who benefit from this will be those who will manage the FRD. So far, the FRD has been managed by two employees who had about PLN 2 million for this purpose. Today, this law says that this cost will depend on the amount of assets and may be incurred when transferring a manipulative, manipulative, transformative fee, or as it is called in the Act, about PLN 80 million. It's a really huge sum. Therefore, we are trying to make amendments that will probably be rejected, which say that, on the one hand, you will clearly account for those sums that you intend to allocate to the management of the Demographic Reserve Fund and, on the other hand, also monitor the costs of the IKE which will receive this money without any additional treatments on your part. And that's gonna be the two main amendments we're gonna make. For the first time, I see something of a private nature and that this private property, which will be passed on in many years, is possible, not in the form of a pension, but rather in the form of a one-off payment, to be taxed earlier. After all, the tax has value at some time, it is not absolute value. You can't say: it's only 15% And you could pay 20% because we don't know what taxes are going to be for 10, 20 or 30 years, and we don't know exactly what the purchasing value of that money is going to be. Talking about how Poles can't save money is another story about how you can save money on food for a horse. You can save on it and sometimes it will work, only most often this horse will die before you save too much on it. If someone has a relatively low income, and for so many years it has been in this system, it is known that there is nothing to save from. We are proposing to reject this in full at second reading and amendments which, if you have good intentions, you will simply accept, because they only facilitate the management of these funds and the monitoring for what money is spent on. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u168	Thank you very much. A group of ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm opening this point of discussion. I'm closing my list of questions at the same time. And I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Szejna, the club of the Left. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition. No list is displayed. There's no envoy. Because there's an acceleration, that's why, Mr. Marshal... Yeah, maybe they'll come. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club. There isn't any either. Mrs Joanna Fedak, PSL Club. This is me, Jolanta. There's been such an acceleration that... I'm so sorry. Please, Mrs Jolanta Fedak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u169	There's such an acceleration that I need to remember what I wanted to ask you, but here's what I'm going to say. If you say that the IKE is such a great system, such an excellent system to save and then to have, as I understand it, a pension, if from the insurance system you transfer that money to the IKE, then my question is: Why doesn't most of this government have an IKE? I checked the statements. Does Prime Minister Morawiecki have an IKE, founded an IKE, saving for this retirement? I didn't see it. Not Minister Maląg, for example. I didn't notice it in a statement sitting here - I don't know who's sitting there because I don't see it - the Secretary of State. I'd hide, too. Yes. So I just see that it's not in your statements, so if it's the IKE that's so good, why aren't you saving for the IKE? Best [[Applause]] is a good example, just a good example, just like when raising children. If you set a good example, Poles will believe that (the bell) maybe it is. Thank you very much, Member. Once, when I limited resources to OFE, I had OFE. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u170	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u171	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My question concerns the proposed amount of the conversion fee. While the levy itself can indeed be considered justified, it is clearly excessive. What's the reason? There's no justification. In order to set the definitive rate of the conversion fee, consideration should be given, inter alia, to the cost of the conversion fee. the share of each year's total savings in the OFE and the differentiation of the expected length of working life and the collection of pensions for each year. If this is taken into account, the fair conversion fee will be a maximum of 9%. Therefore, I have doubts as to whether the proposed fee of 15% is fair or maybe necessary for a balanced budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The general pension system will either be based on the principle of solidarity, or it will not be at all. It would seem that after Jerzy Buzek's reform nothing worse could be invented. Ofe was such a thief that even liberal Tusk had to plow them so that Poland would not bankrupt us. What did Prime Minister Morawiecki say? If you can't, how can you? Privatisation of pensions goes full steam. 150 billion is to be taken out of public money into private accounts. Luckily, people don't fall for it anymore. Over 60% The Poles decided to stay in the ZUS, and this despite the clever traps set by the government, which means that you are automatically saved, and in order to stay in the ZUS, you have to sign yourself out. Despite this, 60% I couldn't fool you. My question is whether, in connection with this wisdom of Poles, the government already knows what will put this hole (the Bell) in the planned expenditure, resulting from the fact that the transformation fee will be much less money than you expected. Oh, and an appeal to the Poles: stay in the ZUS, don't be a loser. Thank you. [[Applause]] They have a choice of Poles. Don't call people losers. Their case, their choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u174	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Club Law and Justice. Is Mrs Agnieszka Soin here? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have questions to the rapporteur about the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. Please answer the question of how the bill will affect the Polish capital market, with particular regard to OFE's assets invested on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Please answer the next question, how much money from OFE is invested in companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Thank you very much. What's it for?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! I wanted to ask the rapporteur why he forgot some important information. First of all, those who take money from IKE will have much lower pensions in the future. Why did you, Mr Buda, and Minister Buda, throughout the whole committee meeting, fail to answer the basic question about how taking funds to the IKE would affect the future level of pension paid by the Social Security Office? I'm asking about this part paid monthly by the Social Security Office. Minister Buda, will you finally answer this basic question for Poles? This will affect their decision. Second question. Why are you disinheriting Poles who in turn will take funds to the ZUS? Because you're not really writing it down on a sub-account from which the funds are inherited for three years after the owner's death, but you're writing it down on an ordinary account in the Social Security Office, which is not inherited. And thirdly, why do you want to force Poles to risk more investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Recent data on the operation of the largest companies of the State Treasury tell us that over the last year they lost PLN 55 billion of their capitalization. Disgraceful! This means that when you enter the law into the obligation to have funds for future pensions in shares, you sentence future pensioners to poverty, taking into account the level of management of State Treasury companies. If we look at how State Treasury companies are managed against other entities present on the stock exchange, it turns out that there is a 30% difference between companies which are not managed by your Misiewicz and those which are managed by them. Therefore, the question: How will Poles, how will their pensions be if managing companies of the State Treasury in an irresponsible way, melting (the bell) the Polish stock exchange? You're depriving future pensioners of the money they've raised for their pensions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with an obvious jump on the money, because if it weren't, you would agree to extend the choice you are giving the Poles today. Firstly, you would be able to transfer these funds to the IKZE. Question: "Why don't you want to do it?" This would be a far more favourable solution from the point of view of pensioners. [[Applause]] This is not enough, it would also be better for the financial markets, because you would not eat nearly 20 billion zlotys, but they would be in the economy. It would be more beneficial for future pensioners to transfer these funds to a sub-account. What you are proposing is, in fact, a solution that is beneficial only from the point of view of the government, and - I can say (The bell) - we have the interests of Polish pensioners entirely on the side here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u183	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice fund Poles riding unattended on pensions. And it's precisely this bill that's supposed to do nothing but make a pension scam. A scam that will lead to a situation where there will be no decent retirement will not be a decent future, and the question of how Poles are going to deal with retirement today will remain a great question mark. The left in the project proposed 1,600 PLN of minimum pension. We asked it to be a project beyond political divisions, which will lead to a decent retirement, that every pensioner and every pensioner will be able to demand a basic salary from the state. I ask the Minister: When will the Law and Justice decide to accept this Left project and the decent life of every pensioner? $1,600 is a matter of our honor, so that the retirees can live a decent life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u184	Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few days ago, I asked what kind of taxes, contributions and fees the PiS government would impose on Poles. Today, almost 16 million Poles and Poles will rob some of the 162 billion of their money just to save their pseudo-sustainable budget once. First of all, today there are three people working for one pensioner, and in the next generation there will be only two people working. Second, according to the Social Security Office in 2018, the replacement rate was around 56% - by more than 5 percentage points less than in 2013. Thirdly, according to the OECD report in Poland, the amount of future pension for people who started working in 2016 will be only 31.6%. It's only gonna get worse in Mexico. The 2018 European Commission report states that in 2060 it will be only 23.5%. Why do you sentence future pensioners to starvation pensions? Why aren't you interested in the fate of our children and grandchildren? Shouldn't the conversion fee be called the aid fee for the PiS? What other taxes are you going to introduce? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u186	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u187	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I continue with the speech by the Member. You just did good for each other. You promised Poles that they would be worthy of retirement, that they would have a vacation under palm trees, and today the first jump, and that is true, and this is a test... You promised, your friend Jerzy Buzek promised. But you're saying the same thing today. You're saying the same thing because there's no concern for pensioners, there's no concern for... The lady came in and screamed. ...to take away 24 billion zlotys. But it was your friend Jerzy Buzek who promised. Minister, if you were referring to pensioners, which I could understand, you would not have imposed such a tax at the start, you would not have taken such a discount. Because if we were to count it at the discount, at the end of 15% (bell rings) that's different, and at first... Thank you very much, Member. ...over the years... Tell me, as a banker, is this 27% discount? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u188	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that every subsequent act of this government, of this party, which assures us of such care for the future of pensioners, amazes me more and more. First you organize another jump to the Demographic Reserve Fund through the Solidarity Fund, then you introduce a one-off benefit, so-called. The 13th pension, without any guarantee that it will continue, announcing a great success. Then you reject the very good Left project guaranteeing a minimum pension for everyone at the level of 1600 PLN, which would help to eliminate extreme poverty of pensioners in Poland. Now you're proposing a project that privatizes a huge part of pensions by handing it over to the stock market without any guarantee that we'll ever see that money. So my question is, do you guys even have a plan for these pensions? And I ask on behalf of my generation, on behalf of 30-year-olds and 40-year-olds who will probably never see those pensions again, and it will be thanks to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u190	Thank you. That was the last question. Mr Waldemar Buda will now speak at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! By way of introduction, of course, the only or fundamental reason for proposing this solution and this law is to make the measures private, which is exactly what was promised to Poles in 1997. No, you got 24 million, billions. It was said that the funds for OFE would be private, unfortunately, in 2013 you questioned this situation, questioned this truth... How much does it cost? ...they transferred half of the funds unfortunately to the Social Security Office, thus patching the budget gap. And we say today that we want to protect the remaining measures that remain in the OFE, from similar measures that you could take in the future, we privatize these measures. In relation to what you have done, this is absolutely incomparable. Mrs Fedak's first question, why are the members... Minister. Minister, yes. ...the government doesn't have an IKE, today a voluntary IKE. Because today on IKE e.g. there is no cost limit, because today the functioning of IKE is not cheap, because today IKE is not effective. After making our changes, where we propose limits for maintaining the IKE, for administering the IKE, it will indeed be worthwhile. Today there are products on the market, they were at the beginning of the creation of IKE, of 5 fees, and we propose 1,2 , so there is a fundamental difference, and indeed now members of the government, I think, will also be interested to participate in the IKE, and I also encourage the Minister to do so. Mrs Paulina Matysiak asked why 15% . Ladies and gentlemen, if we hadn't done anything today with those funds that are in the OFE, they would have been transferred to the US and there would have been taxed up to 32 percent tax. So our 15% fee is twice as much as that tax, and in the case of the first tax threshold by 2%. So we are really reducing the taxation of these measures by at least 2%, and in the case of the second tax threshold by even a dozen. Why 15% What, not lower? Because today we have the resources in the OFE, which come from the pension contribution, and we cannot expose ourselves to the situation, for example, in terms of compliance with the Constitution, that we are not equal to those who have transferred these funds to the Social Security Office in relation to those who have transferred them to the IKE. We can only go down to 15% right now. This is much less than what you proposed, which is 32%. Or 17%. Mr Maciej Necessary asked how much impact the fee will have. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not encourage a specific decision. Let each Pole decide what it will be like. He has a right to choose. It may decide to choose by default, i.e. to transfer funds to the IKE, but it may also make a declaration about the transfer of funds to the ZUS. There you go, he's got a choice, maybe he can transfer the funds to the Social Security Office. We don't see any problem in that. Next question. Mrs Hennig-Kloska asks if there will be less pension. I return to the answer I gave to Minister Fedak. Retirement can only be higher for this solution. It'll be higher at least by this lower fee... But what are you saying? Don't mislead the citizens. Mr. Marshal... The ZUS will be paid out. Member, where are you? This is the Seym. Why are you screaming? You had time, you asked a question. Now there's the Minister's answer. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're interrupting the Minister's speech. But please, Minister, don't mislead the citizens. If part of the money is allocated to IKE, what will you pay for it? That's your opinion. Keep it to yourself. Madame, you have no voice right now. Please don't disturb me. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: For each insured pensioner, the pension will be higher at least by the difference between the tax that the State imposed, i.e. 32%. or 17% And that fee we've offered, which is at least 2%, maybe a dozen. You don't know what you're talking about. You don't know what the investment effect will be. You don't know anything about it. If you, Mrs Leszczyna, are personally attacking me, I must say that there is great progress with your questions. I didn't ask you any questions. Madam, you do not have the floor now. Don't you get it? State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: At her first reading, she pointed out that I was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development. Unfortunately, it was a mistake. Today you said funds and development. Also a mistake. Perhaps in the Senate or after the return of the Senate bill, you will know the proper name of the Ministry. But you know what that proves? That you've got this job merry-go-round. I'm going back to the questions I asked. Sir, you're embarrassing yourself. Madame, you are not on your colleague's name, you are in the Seym. Please don't disturb me. Why are you screaming and waving your finger? But I don't know what he's talking about. That voice is redundant. No, now the minister has the floor, and you have no voice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madame, you are still in the way. Calm down, don't act like a bribe. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Ms Krystyna Skowrońska asked why the fee is at the beginning, since it is a much less favourable solution for insured people than a solution for which the fee would be at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple mathematical task. The fee charged at the beginning costs exactly the same amount, has the same effect on savings as the fee charged at the end. It's exactly the same. Count the amount of 10,000. This is as much as was collected at OFE. But why this charge now? So someone doesn't have an idea to take more in the future. I understand that you can one day collide with a situation in which they will be responsible for the budget, and they will have a similar situation as in 2013, where they will want to take or tax these funds again. Therefore, today we will take a minimum fee so that no one can take any more of these measures and tax them much higher than we have proposed. That's what they told him to say. Ladies and gentlemen! The whole operation is about privatising funds, which is exactly what was announced in 1997. You questioned this in 2013. We are going back to that. We want to give these resources to Poles. Public system, man. The only condition is that the funds can be paid after retirement age. These measures will become private by 27 November 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] This is property? But they can't be paid. Bravo for this property. You shouldn't talk after this robbery in 2013.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, I would like to answer the questions concerning the few points that have been raised, as well as the questions that have been asked me as rapporteur. First of all, as I emphasized at the very beginning of today's point, Poles have a choice. This is the difference between what Law and Justice is proposing and what the Civic Platform did in 2013 and 2014. Then Poles simply had no choice. [[Applause]] Robbery in broad daylight. But the first thing is this. But you're lying. You can't lie. In broad daylight. Please tell me how it was possible that 51.5% had been transferred in 2014 funds belonging to Poles, which thanks to their work Poles gathered in open pension funds. The state jumped the OFE and you transferred these funds to the ZUS because that was the need of the government of Donald Tusk, the Civic Platform and the PSL. But don't be silly. Madam, you're bothering me again. Now the situation is: Poles have a choice. This is a question which Mr Cichoń also raised, which he said: you are giving Poles a choice. You should never talk about it after the robbery in 2013. This is very important, this is the difference between what we propose... It is the Poles who will decide whether their funds will go to the Social Insurance Institution or to individual pension accounts. This is a fundamental issue that should be highlighted once again. Mrs Soin asked how much of the funds collected in open pension funds are invested in shares of companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. For more than PLN 150 billion collected in OFE about PLN 120 billion are funds invested in companies listed on the Stock Exchange. With regard to issues related to what is the mechanism to safeguard certain stability of the stock exchange - I think that this should be the case for all parliamentarians - the government, when presenting the bill, proposed a mechanism that guarantees - there is a whole timetable for the deadlines - what percentage of the funds collected at the time on the IKE will be invested in the Stock Exchange, in companies listed on the stock exchange. This is a mechanism that is a certain stabiliser in terms of development, security and certainty of Poles, about restoring confidence in the pension system in Poland, because we care about what you did in 2013 and 2014. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u194	In the procedure of correcting Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. [[You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I understand that you do not deal with pensioners every day, and you do not know how the pension system works in Poland. Now's a good time for you to learn a little bit about it. Today is about how much a man pays. [[Applause]] to a ZUS account, so much later, when he retires, he receives in monthly instalments as a payout. If half of his funds, part or contribution that went to OFE - less than half - is transferred to IKE, then the funds in his account in the Social Security Office will decrease and will not be transferred there before retirement. I'm not asking you globally about an investment portfolio on IKE, because maybe somebody's gonna make money, maybe somebody's gonna lose. We don't know how he's gonna be when he can pay off that money. I'm asking you one thing. You haven't been able to answer for weeks. How will the pension paid by the Social Security Office change after retirement? I'm asking if retirement will fall to today's thirty-and-forty-year-olds who will take their money (the bell) to the IKE. I'm asking for monthly payouts from the ZUS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But he doesn't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u196	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Janusz Silchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u197	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Apparently, I was misunderstood by your envoy because I said... That's an exact quote. ...explaining that you don't really leave an honest choice to pensioners. The actual choice would mean the choice between IKE, IKE and the pension sub-account in ZUS. What you're doing is simply dishonest in the world. That's exactly what you said. It is not enough to remember that you, by the way, take this formula, are actually robbing local governments from their income. Look who's talking and who's talking about stealing. By spreading it over time, you also limit health measures. It's worth remembering, too. Exactly. It's also worth, I think, going back to that reform we did our time, and taking a closer look at it... It wasn't yours... they robbed the Poles in 2013? ...because you clearly don't understand what we did by changing the formula of OFE in 2013. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs Jolanta Fedak, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u199	I just wanted to point out that if there were such bad conditions for the functioning of IKE, there was time for 6 years and it could be improved so that the Poles would save... Corrigendum. ...on this plan of saving so much the government cares. That's all. It's been six years, so you could have improved those conditions. The point is that these measures will necessarily be in the IKE, and therefore it is logical that the operation of these measures is lower, because there is no acquisition, people are not encouraged to do so, that is clear. It's just an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u200	Please, Mr Krajewski. It's hard for me to say, because I haven't been to this discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I'm afraid I have to make a correction because no one's stealing from anyone here. I am surprised that such words fall out of the mouth of a parliamentarians in this House, where, I think, there is also a matter of responsibility for the word, Mr President. Therefore, let us say again: Poles have a choice. You ask: Do you have individual pension accounts? Why don't you go further, see if anybody's got an open pension fund? I'm the one who's rushing to tell you that yes, I have the resources on the OFE, and just like any Pole who has the resources, I'm going to make a decision. But I have a choice. And this is the difference between what the Law and Justice are proposing and the fatal event in history for which the Poles settled the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u202	And Mrs Isabella Leszczyn. I won't let anyone speak again. You're still the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Well, sir, the Poles have a choice between the plague and cholera, [[Applause]] 'Cause they either have to lose 15%. which you will steal from them, or you will steal their inheritance. That's one thing. Look who's talking. Secondly, it is worth reminding once again that in 2014 no one lost a penny and now everyone will lose 15%. Then who stole from whom and whose reform is thieving? About a penny written down on the sub-account of funds. Finally, Minister, learn to distinguish deficits and debt, because it is a shame that the Minister of the Ministry of Funds or something - you change so often that I am not going to remember it - he did not know. Deficit is something other than debt. We waived the Treasury bonds, i.e. debt, and this had no impact on the financial situation of the year or on the state of the Social Insurance Fund. These are complicated things, but to speak, you have to at least read a little bit about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u204	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, this reform also applies to those IKEs that operate on a voluntary basis today, and these fee limits also apply to these situations. These limits have so far not actually functioned, the fees have been many times higher. Today we propose maximum limits, which are at four times, three times compared to what today is an offer on the market. The question was: Can Poles lose on this reform? No, they can't. They can only gain. At least 2% is guaranteed. On the other hand, I assume it will be much more. Everything depends on the return rate in investment funds on individual accounts. But they're really avoiding the risk that the remaining money on the OFE could be taken in the future. Because that's what the Poles were afraid of. Half of the funds were taken from them in 2013 and 2014 and fear that someone could reach for the other half. Stop lying! That is why we privatize these measures, on November 27th it will be the private funds of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But you won't be paying them at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u206	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the law - Geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws (prints no 130 and 169). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u207	High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on the government draft law amending the law - Geodesy and Cartographic Law and some other laws, the government project is included in print No 130 and the report of the Infrastructure Commission - in print No 169. The Infrastructure Committee on 11 February considered the subcommittee report and adopted the report, which is from print No 169, which I am submitting to the High House. High Izbo! The Law - Geographical and Cartographic Law of 17 May 1989 is often referred to as the relic of communism by the professional environments of surveyors who demand the liberalisation of legislation and the improvement of the rules on the use of geodetic and cartographic resources. Unfortunately, the revision of the geodesic and cartographic law of 5 June 2014 has bureaucraticised and made it difficult for surveying contractors to obtain the necessary materials from the resource. The introduction of 18 tables with a multitude of correction factors instead of a simple flat-rate system not only hindered the lives of the surveyors, but to the extent of the wrong caused a reduction of about PLN 50 million in the country's income affecting counties leading the geodetic resource used by contractors. Thus, after a year, the Law of 15 May 2015 improved these provisions. This, of course, was corrected by too much, rather by a faster. The provision was introduced in Article. 12b. 5 on the so-called Authentication of documents drawn up on the basis of geodetic works carried out, and the authentication fees allowed the counties to compensate for lost income. 1 million PLN times 50 PLN is the lost 50 million. This was not at the committee meeting, Madame. The draft law in question in print No 130 and in the committee's report removes the authentication institution and the related fees. High Izbo! The draft print act 130, worked in the subcommittee and then in the Committee on Infrastructure, also eliminates a lot of bad records that make it difficult for surveying contractors to live. Let me put it this way, since each construction starts with a surveyor, in a simple way, from a map to design purposes, and ends with a geodesic post-executive measurement, simplifying the rules for carrying out geodetic work, including the use of geodesic and cartographic resources, will obviously make life easier for investors. And this is the ratio legis, which in this case is, I think, extremely important. As I said, the project removes the bureaucratic burden of reporting geodetic works, of making materials available from the state geodetic and cartographic resources, of the fees for sharing and transferring the results of the work to the state resource. Amendments to the Law on geodesic and cartographic law include art. 1 of this project. The amendments are as follows: 2 Geographical and cartographic law defines the map for the purposes of design and geodetic inventory of post-executive construction works, as well as geodetic activities for construction purposes. The introduction of these statutory definitions should harmonise the conduct of the architectural and construction administrations in the field of geodetic studies required for administrative proceedings which are starting the construction process. There is always a chance that, at national level, architectural and construction administrations will behave uniformly. Another amendment is contained in the added paragraph. Article 1a 12. This is the introduction of the possibility of reporting survey work up to 5 working days after the actual start date if the activities performed do not require prior collection of material from the stock. This change is clearly beneficial, especially with regard to inventory measurements, e.g. land weapons networks to be carried out immediately before the net is covered, including other covered robots. I will say this, recalling the surveyors' experience, the surveyor is always under pressure from construction contractors who do not want to waste time. This record will allow the surveyors to act almost immediately. Another change is the abolition of the obligation to report and transmit the documentation to the site's building and weapon networks. These are the changes in the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 We are also dealing with the abolition of the obligation to report cartographic work and the work carried out to set up or update databases for the competent authority of the Geodesic and Cartographic Service. Another amendment is to specify the maximum time limit within which the geodetic and cartographic documentation centre should make available to the contractor a copy of the materials from the geodetic and cartographic resources. The record so far was immediately interpreted to the detriment of the performers. I remember my discussions in 2014 in the Committee on Infrastructure, where I strongly asked the main surveyor at the time to clarify this, because it is obvious that he will act against the economic operators. Unfortunately, it was the throwing of peas against the wall, which is why I am glad that this record is changing. It shall be made available no later than 5 working days after receipt of the fee as provided for in paragraph 1. 3 in that Article. 12. There, most of the changes are in the article. 12, because it is simply a very important provision that normalizes the relationship between the documentation centre and the performers. Another change is the abolition of the obligation to agree on a list of materials necessary to carry out the reported work - this will simplify and shorten the acquisition of materials. You know, time is money, especially in this job. Nevertheless, the agreement remains optional. If the contractor considers it necessary for him to do so, such an arrangement may be carried out. Another change is the possibility of establishing a timetable and scope for partial transmission of results of geodetic work for verification in case of extensive or complex work. This is the regulation of the article. 12a in the mouth. 1a. High Izbo! The project also sets the maximum deadline for the district geodetic administration for the verification of data sets and materials transmitted by geodetic contractors, depending on the area of reported work: from 7 to 20 days. There is a division of geodetic works into small, medium and larger, i.e. area: up to 1 ha, from 1 to 10 ha and above 10 ha. It's as if it's based also on the terms I'm talking about. For small works is for verification of 7 days. For those between 1 and 10 ha is 10 working days and for larger work - 20 working days. This is the regulation of the article. 12b. 1a and 1b. Another amendment is the introduction of a reduction in the deadline for carrying out geodetic work up to 1 year after the notification, which is intended to facilitate the enforcement of geodetic works from contractors to transfer their results to a state resource. There is a possibility of extending the work for another year and the possibility of restoring the missed deadline. It should be stressed that this annual deadline does not apply to works which, by nature, are long-lasting - i.e. work on the consolidation and exchange of land. The drafting of the law was accompanied by a very large, lively discussion on this provision. What has decided that this is the way it is adopted is to know that it is not so that one contractor operates in one area, only a state resource made available at the district level is used by very many entities. No one is, as it were, the owner who can simply drag out certain activities forever, but everyone uses the resource and keeps it up to date. Another amendment is to clarify the rules for the transmission of the results of the revised geodetic work following the finding in the protocol of verification of deficiencies which the contractor has not contested. A period of three months shall be laid down for the transmission of the corrected data after which the work is deemed to have been abandoned without success. Flat-rate fees are introduced for the provision of materials from the state geodetic and cartographic resources. Introduced 5 years ago, the system for fixing fees based on the basic rate, the required material, the number of materials and the correction factors... But this is a club performance. ... turned out to be - as we did then and so it turned out - excessively complicated not only for centers of geodetic and cartographic documentation, but also uncomfortable and cumbersome for surveying contractors. The surveyor's fees must be paid at the moment before the geodetic data is obtained. You are beyond the scope of the committee's report. A in accordance with Article. 40d a flat-rate scheme shall be introduced for the most frequent work referred to in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3). These are e.g. works such as post-executive inventory, mapping with real estate division project, integration and real estate division project, design maps or documentation for real estate separation, i.e. the most frequently performed surveying work by smaller companies. The amount of the flat-rate fee depends on the area indicated in the notification, i.e. the area up to 1 ha, from 1 ha to 10 ha, and above 10 ha. It is set out in the Annex to the Act containing Table 16a. Tables 1, 4, 5, 15 and 18 disappear from the existing complex charging system due to the free provision of certain geodetic materials. And let us stress here that this proposal introduces changes to the rules allowing free access to orthophotomapas of basic geodetic, gravimetric and magnetic dreams, detailed geodetic, numerical terrain model and parts of data that relate to inventory parcels and buildings, i.e. the shape of these plots and identifiers, and the availability of topographic objects with a scale of 1:10 thousand. to 1:100,000. High Izbo! Article 2 contains amendments to the Farmers' Social Insurance Act. Art. 3 contains amendments to the Construction Law Act. First of all, these changes are a consequence of the introduction into the geodetic and cartographic law of the map definition for design purposes and the geodetic post-executive inventory. In addition, it is amended to require the investor or construction manager to ensure that during the design and construction of the construction site a person with appropriate professional qualifications in the field of geodesia and cartography performs geodesic activities for construction purposes. Art. 4 amends the Real Estate Management Act as a consequence of introducing a real estate price register in place of the existing real estate price and value register. Art. 5 provides for amendments to the Spatial Planning and Development Act, introduces a new chapter 5a entitled The provisions in this Chapter require the authorities competent to draw up draft planning documents to create, maintain, update and make available spatial data sets within the meaning of Article. Point 3 (11) of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. The following articles include amendments to the Act on the Protection of Monuments and on the Special Solutions for the Elimination of the Effects of Floods and the Act on Water Law. I must also point out here that the committee has adopted, in the course of its work, an amendment following the article. Article 8 9 to avoid collisions, i.e. collation of changes in connection with the imposition of legislative work on the printing project under consideration here no. 130 of the amendment - geodetic and cartographic law and the draft law amending the Law - Construction Law from printing No. 121, as both projects relate to art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 - Construction rights. And the one that's being added. The 9th issue of this collision can be solved. Articles 10 to 19 are transitional provisions. On the other hand, the article. 20 provides that the Act shall enter into force 3 months after the date of its publication, with the exception of the provisions relating to charges for the provision of central stock by seniors and marshals which enter into force on 1 January 2021 and the provisions of Article. 5, i.e. for spatial data sets that enter into force 6 months after the date of publication. High Izbo! The Infrastructure Committee adopted the draft law contained in the committee's report by 16 votes, with 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask for the adoption of a draft law amending the law - Geographical and Cartographic Law and certain other laws contained in print No 169. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u208	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u209	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law - Geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws, print No 130 and 169. High Izbo! The aim of the Act is to introduce changes that will solve the problem of excessive constraints and improve the investment and construction process, among others. by making planning documents publicly available using geoinformation techniques. The entry into force of the proposed legislation will result in transparent rules for the performance of geodetic work and clearly defined rights and obligations of both economic operators and bodies of the geodetic and cartographic services. The amendment envisages the restoration of a flat-rate fee for the materials of the State geodetic and cartographic stock issued to geodetic contractors, the amount of which is to be dependent on the area of the study. The payment of flat-rate fees will provide the contractor with full access to the material of the State geodetic and cartographic resource concerning the work he has reported without having to attend the geodetic and cartographic service separately on each material of the State geodetic and cartographic resource. For investors, a reciprocal arrangement between the contractor and the body of the timetable and the extent of the partial transmission of data sets and documents resulting from these works is envisaged, so-called. Stages that allow the investor to rationally plan the time needed to prepare and develop the results of the various stages of the investment. In turn, the authority will have the possibility to carry out the verification in a planned and more efficient manner. The proposed amendment provides for specific deadlines to improve and accelerate the investment process. In a situation where the geodesic and cartographic service authority in the verification protocol finds deficiencies and irregularities, the three-month inactivity of the geodetic contractor will result in the work being reported being abandoned. Furthermore, it is assumed that restrictions on the deadline for carrying out geodetic work notified by the contractor should be introduced when the current lack of regulation led to artificial extension of time limits and that the lack of full information on the scope and actual state of performance of the notified work prevented the proper planning of other work in the area concerned. It is also envisaged to introduce the possibility of starting geodetic work before submitting it to the old town. Notifications will have to be made within 5 working days from the start of this work. The information contained in the land and building records will be updated on the basis of materials that will be included in the state surveying and cartographic resources of the public, i.e. without the need to submit an application. This solution will improve the process of updating data in the database, in the land and buildings records. The project also reduces information on land and buildings by removing information that is contained in other state registers. This solution optimizes the operation of individual databases and at the same time identifies entities responsible for up-to-date reliable resources. The amendment of the law provides for the repeal of the so-called institutions. authentication of documents drawn up on the basis of geodetic work carried out for administrative proceedings, court proceedings or civil law activities. In place of authentication, the principle of mandatory filing is introduced ex officio clause of documents constituting the results of geodetic work, which will confirm the acceptance of data and materials on the basis of which they were drawn up, to the State Geodesic and Cartographic Resource. It is also proposed that the contractor should be able, without waiting for the section of documents intended for the contracting authority to provide a declaration of compliance with the criminal liability of obtaining the verification protocol with positive results, which will result in a faster transmission of the materials to the contracting authority and a secure update of the databases of the State Geodesy and Cartography Resource. Finish your work, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Government's draft law amending the Law - Geodetic and Cartographic Law and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u210	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u211	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition in relation to the government draft law amending the law - geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws following the presentation of the report of committees, prints No 130 and 169. High Izbo! The declared purpose of the bill is some kind of liberalisation, rebureaucratization of processes related to geodetic work. Of course, this declared objective of the project is extremely interesting both for the industry and for the investor's citizen, because the investment process, which is characterised by a certain time horizon, distorted by difficult to formulate and determine factors, is certainly worse than the investment process that can reasonably be envisaged. It can be planned and carried out very efficiently. So an amendment to the government's assessment should make this process simpler. Unfortunately, it must be said that these changes that are being made do not give such a guarantee. Despite the introduction of some of the expected solutions, which can have a good effect, the bill contains a number of changes which clearly introduce new obligations, which will probably extend the investment process and will certainly make it more expensive. Such an example, which I would point out at the beginning of this, I would say, the unknown effect of change, is the elimination of form in part of administrative proceedings and the introduction of a complaint procedure. Of course, it could be considered that the elimination of the administrative procedure is a simplification, but the question of how this will result in the rights of the people concerned, whether they will be better or worse protected. Here we are not so sure, so the first example from the bank shows that perhaps this bill, this project was not fully thought out. During committee meetings, the social side - not only Geodeci, but also representatives of the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications - pointed out that there was a very high risk that the solutions introduced, firstly, could slow down the investment process and, secondly, would lead to an increase in costs. Again with regard to costs, on the one hand, some improvements were proposed regarding the valuation of geodetic materials, but on the other hand, increases are introduced in many places, which can be called even drastic. And the question is: How much will this make it easy or lower the cost of investment processes? Rather, it can be said that this will increase the cost of investment processes. The act is terminated so-called. authentication, but, on the other hand, a clause is introduced, which is in fact a more complicated procedure, which aims to authenticate documents and, of course, to understand some kind of official reasons for introducing this solution, it cannot escape the conclusion that, however, an additional bureaucratic procedure, which somehow binds the investor to the relationship of the surveyor - the office, will lead to an extension of these processes. These processes will become more costly and it is difficult to call liberalisation of the process. The same is true when it comes to making the effect of work dependent on the relationship between the surveyor and the starosta. The Act introduces an obligation to comply with the results of geodetic work with what is in the databases. And if we look at the state of today's bases, we're going to check the different types of deviation standards, and it may be that what's going on today is going to be broken down by the fact that there's data in the database that has older quality requirements, and today a surveyor who comes with the result of a work of far better quality comes across a wall, that he's going to have to do a job for which no one is going to pay him and which, in fact, is due to the needs of only a surveying body. We therefore present 11 amendments to the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We believe that this law can be improved so that it is not really an obstacle to efficient investment. However, we also delete the article. Nine, we suggest we remove it. We believe that amending laws that have not even been signed by your President is something that should simply not have happened. We also ask for a number of modifications and reductions of fees proposed in the government project, assuming that the amendment of the law cannot be a reason for jumping into investors' funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club New Left - Together on the draft law on amending the law - Geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws. It was a surprise, to be honest, that I listened to the rapporteur's report on the work and subcommittee, which I had the honour of being a member and the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, because during the deliberations of both the subcommittee and the committee, no one made as serious a plea against this law and this amendment as the rapporteur. Well, she referred to this law, High Izbo, as a relic of communism. If he did, he'd be asking to be thrown into the trash of this bill. Since the fall of communism, or the system that dominated Poland until 1989, it has been well over 30 years, and it would ask for something new, fresh and corresponding to the spirit of the times. Meanwhile, High Izbo, we are barely working on amending this law. I do not share that opinion, honourable Member. I assume that, although we do deserve, Polish investors, citizens deserve a new law on geodesic law and cartography, and I dedicate this comment to the main surveyor of the country, but this law, its proposed amendment and the effects of the committee's work, entitles them to support this draft amendment, and the parliamentary club. New Left - Together, he will vote in favour of this amendment. The revision of geodetic and cartographic law, as I say, is an amendment to this work and this amendment, which was carried out 5 years earlier. Returns, among others. to a flat-rate way of clearing various types of fees for geodetic and cartographic services, because, apparently, these corrections or this module and model, which was proposed 5 years ago, apparently did not work. In its intention, the Act aims at speeding up the investment process and improving the work of surveyors. I am pleased to note that such objectives and impacts can be expected after the proposed amendment. It is also worth making available a large part of geodetic data free of charge. We read this as a good step towards the publication of all the data available in the Polish state's resources. Undoubtedly, with the development of the information society and the arrival of the era of economy 4.0, this type of data, in particular geodesic and cartographic data, constitute and must form the basis not only of the investment process but also of broadly understood business planning, planning further economic activities and not only. This is a good and necessary step in the right direction. It also draws attention to the improvement of the process of keeping records of land and buildings, and not to the disclosure, but to the dissemination or ease of access to such records. I think that the investment process and the various economic activities will benefit from this kind of facilitation. A certain glitch, and it is quite painful, is accompanied by this change - the transition from settlement or from the system of detailed fees to lump sums - the increase in fees, because this is how we interpret all these changes in tables. We regret it, but we understand that, contrary to the government's assurances, we're just dealing with inflation, and it's quite serious inflation. The cost of living is increasing, and this is probably, contrary to the declarations, reflected or confirmed in this type of activity (the Bell). To sum up and thank you for your attention, I would like to reiterate that we will support this government presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Koalicja Polska - Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Kukiz15 a position on the draft law amending the law on geodetic and cartographic law and some other laws, prints no 130 and 169. In this case, the National Geodet Trade Union has issued an open letter in which it claims that the aim of the amendment is not to improve the investment process - because if so, geodetic work should be included in this process - but to adapt the rules to the actual capabilities of the iGeoMap system with the ePODGIK application. At the end of last year, the National Trade Union of Geodetics addressed a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate and Members and Senators, pointing out that the official justification for the adoption of this amendment is to speed up administrative procedures, especially in the context of the implementation of investments, while in the assessment of trade unionists new rules will bring a completely opposite effect in the geodesic industry. Although professional organisations have already pointed this out during the project consultation, their demands have been ignored and left unanswered. To whom, then, is this bill to serve? The association claims that its main objective is to adapt the geodetic and cartographic law to the possibilities of iGeoMap system with the application of ePODGIK developed by Geo-System, whose president until mid-2018 was Mr Waldemar Izdebski, the current main surveyor of the country. It was to him that Jerzy Kwieciński appointed the Minister of Investment and Development to consult this law. Scandal! In the assessment of the relationship, this system was fully in line with the applicable law when it entered the market in 2006. When the law changed in 2014, the software was no longer useful. At that time it was no longer a desirable product for old age, resulting in a decrease in the number of its users. The result of this amendment at the moment will actually be a reduction in the income of the district old age, which at every step of the way have these income losses. This will not improve the investment in any way, but reduces the freedom of economic activity and its inclusion in the project - the relationship has also assessed it - as a result of the possibility of the system mentioned earlier by me, in which the contractor can declare the date of completion only for a year ahead. Therefore, this period of 1 year appears. If we are talking about introducing restrictions on the possibility of covering several objectives of work in a given area with a single notification and the elimination of the classification of geodetic work into types and objectives or expected results, this will only lead to the need to report several times to one and the same investor and to one and the same investment, so it will extend rather than shorten the duration of geodetic work. And in this case, there are current restrictions on software from Geo-System, which makes it impossible to make a single report of work with different purposes or effects. Extending the verification of geodetic work to check the consistency of the transmitted data with the databases carried out by that body, including in this case, will in no way speed up the implementation of the geodetic work. This is written under software. Today, the application does not comply with the applicable regulations, because it is unable to download and publish data in the current GML scheme. It is also an important novelty to secure the financing of district geodesia. It is to receive at least as much money as it generated in the previous year. It's biased. Your Marshal, five minutes out of time. In this way my question: Will the Geo-System program actually become attractive after adopting these changes and will immediately fully meet the statutory requirements in this regard? We as the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will wait for these effects, so with the vote we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u217	This law once again promises us deregulation, some sort of liberalisation, simplification of procedures. It's only partially true. This is a typical piss-style bill, which is a little carrot, a little stick, and the carrot is as usual small and disgusting, and the stick is thick and bumpy. PiS is again trying to prove that he knows better than entrepreneurs, which is good for them. They say that they do not want these regulations, that these regulations are bad for them, and he says: no, this is good for you, it will be liberalisation. That's the same thing we had last time with the garbage bill. It was exactly the same thing. Entrepreneurs said it was a bad change, and PiS said it was for you, for your convenience. But we don't want that comfort. But we want your comfort, we know better what's good for you. We've got the same thing again. The bill, you know, loosens the screw at several points to tighten it right next to it. Your rapporteur has said that she has rightly emphasised some of the issues that are indeed being liberalised, but she has not mentioned those in which we are going in the opposite direction. The Krajewski colleague has already provided an example that we are throwing away the verification, but we are adding a clause which, in an issue such as that in this law, is even more annoying than the previous verification. All entrepreneurs say it's gonna be more annoying for them, so I think they know better. You're lowering one fee to raise the other. Here you boast that some of the maps will be shared for free, but it will be at the expense of the entrepreneurs. Besides, the chief surveyor himself justified it in such a way that these raises in other places must serve to make the state look at itself so that the money will agree in the bellows. In fact, surveyors will have to finance free sharing in other places in order to buy the materials they need most, so as always the costs will be borne by entrepreneurs and Geodecians. It's trampling in place, it's a change of post-communist, bad law in a way that we just stick a patch on this post-communist ulcer. The main problem of Polish geodesy is different, the fact that geodecks employed in offices are unfair competition for entrepreneurs acting independently, for independent surveyors, because they have full control over the process of verification or now of categorisation. They, or their colleagues, can stamp the documents first and thus gain an advantage. In addition, during work, using access to programs, they perform these maps cheaper than Geodecas, because they do not have to bear all the costs, ZUS etc., so they are unfair competition. It is a monstrous plague, a plague faced by entrepreneurs, and they report it. What are we doing? We're doing exactly the opposite of what we're supposed to do, which means we're increasing the civil servant's advantage over the entrepreneur. We're giving the clerk an even bigger one. than before, because at the moment he will be able to hold back the investment process until the red stamp is put on. Again we deepen the pathology, and the spokesperson of this pathology is the chief surveyor, who always follows the surveyors of officials, not business surveyors. We were dealing with a sad situation when we saw in this Seym that the tail of a merda dog. Members of the PiS, even Mrs Paluch, who convincingly justified, even better than I, my own amendment, then voted against it because the surveyor said that it was not allowed. PiS members reduce their temperament to some mindless machine, regretting a worthy voting machine. You cannot have your own opinion in an obvious situation, when we show you that we are dealing with obvious lobbying, said this to Mr Krajewski, with bold lobbying from Mr Geodetist to his own programme, when we adjust the right to his ability, when we establish some ridiculous limitation of one year, which results completely from nothing, you are not able to get out of this leash. You're just watching if the main surveyor lets you vote like that and if he doesn't let you vote, you don't vote. Sadly, the left hand in hand with the PiS, such an exotic coalition, voted all the amendments for them, all the amendments in turn, even the most obvious. We are fighting for Poland here. Yes, you are fighting for Poland, I can see what Poland you are fighting for. Disgraceful! But you can see sentiments, the bill is post-communist and old love doesn't rust. Ha, ha, ha! In view of the above, the Confederation will vote against, and all the amendments we tabled in committee are hereby maintained. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left, will be the first question to be asked. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u219	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to definitely protest because I'm hearing it again. First, the rapporteur says something about a post-communist law. The Member also mentions such a thing. Stop mixing geodesia and cartography with politics, because that's not the point. [[Applause]] It's just not that. I have a question about how this bill will affect the budgets of district and voivodship authorities. There's a record that says it's Art. 41 is introduced from 1 January 2021 because local authorities have to plan additional financial resources for the implementation of the tasks arising from this law. Therefore, my question is: Will this law not cause additional costs on the part of local governments? And if so, how will they be refunded to district governments and voivodships?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u221	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question and an appeal because, indeed, the bill we are looking at is another amendment. Has any work begun on the attempt to build a new space for geodesia and cartography, a new law modified on what today, in the 21st century, is the most important, i.e. new technologies, responsibility for how quickly they develop? How the law on geodesia and cartography will affect the reality of Poles and Poles, given that these new tools still facilitate work, but also give the prospect that in a short time, i.e. In the next decade, it may turn out that the complete modification of geodetic processes will be computerized? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u223	Dear Marshal! Honourable Members! Here the Left Member says: do not mix politics with geodesia, do not talk about the post-communist law. You're the ones mixing policy with geodesia, introducing a policy into geodesia in the form of a regulation that they don't need. Geodetes are even such a professional group that is very aware of the pitiful state of the state, because they fight absurd bureaucracy every day. Geodeta must be at the same time, except that he is a surveyor, a lawyer, he must be a specialist in the local office, a good surveyor must have either knowledge in the office or, without it, by some miracle, move well in these ridiculous regulations and absurd decisions of officials. It does not only harm surveyors, but the economy as a whole, because the surveyor loses not only money for these parataxes in the form of hundreds of fees for obtaining further information, but it is a lot of time that he could devote to carrying out subsequent orders. Didn't it ever occur to you, instead of digging into this ridiculous lawn, just eliminate it and unleash (the bell) a surveyor's profession? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u224	Thank you very much. Do you know a surveyor? Yeah, I know, my brother-in-law's a surveyor. I'm asking you to calm down. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u225	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you to clarify the quality of the survey materials. At the moment, the bill's responsibility for quality and consistency with the databases is being transferred to surveyors. The question is whether any other idea was considered that would balance a party that would not shift responsibility, costs, an organization into a business that has de facto to do free work for the office, and in addition in such a way that it is actually difficult to escape. Here from such an expression as attachment and good relationships. Second question, Minister. Indeed, the issue of software was raised in the subcommittee and in the committee, and today. It would be good to explain whether it is really possible to change this program so that it takes more than a year. You just have to change the law to adjust the rules to what's in the program? There's really no way to do this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the show? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Aichler, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u227	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening to this debate and, Mr President, I am laughing at what you are saying, because the law in question, which is being amended, has been in operation for 30 years and nothing like that in Poland has happened so that someone's borders are wrong or that the Geodecians cannot accept this law. So far, they've been working on them, and you guys are figuring out something to come up with. High Izbo! I wanted to ask. This government law has been consulted with the trade union of surveyors and the information I have heard shows that not all of its demands, rightly stated, have been taken into account. I would like to know what these demands were and what prevented them from being accepted. Second question. They say the bill has an impact on the reduction of the county's income. I would also like to know what degree this is, if this is really true. The Left, as Mr Kwiatkowski said, will vote in favour of this law, so we believe that it will still do no harm to Poland or the Polish economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u228	Thank you very much. The main surveyor of Mr. Waldemar Izdebski's country, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u229	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! I'm a debutante here, I'm a science worker at the Warsaw University of Technology, a professor at the University of Technology, and I've been working in business for 30 years, creating software. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I created this software and I hope that I have 30 years of academic and IT experience, will benefit from Polish geodesia. On the other hand, I will refer to these charges further. Ladies and gentlemen, this is completely untrue. To prove it, I just want to say one thing. Members of the Confederation and of the PSL have been manipulated into such statements by a narrow group of people who defend their interests. Why are we introducing a one-year deadline for the job application? To eliminate, for example, 100 years when it comes to reporting jobs, 200 years when it comes to reporting jobs - something that is a total mess. In case of doubt, sir, I am serving the document, and I am not here in word. That's all there is to it. Ladies and gentlemen, when almost 6 years ago, in 2014, together with Mrs Paluch, we warned about the changes that were made, that they would be bad, unfortunately we were right. It's a sad satisfaction. The amendment of this law in 2014 introduced many bad things that we eliminate with this amendment. As to the conclusion that it is a communist law - I would not like to talk about it again, because it so happened that it was the last law passed by that Sejm, but there were several dozen amendments to this law that completely changed its form during that time. The question was: Are work on the new law being undertaken at the moment? Not today, ladies and gentlemen, because for 17 months we have been preparing this change, carefully consulting with everyone, anyone who wanted to present reasonable changes within the scope of regulation. The parliamentarian state knows that it is impossible to change the law freely, there is a certain scope of regulation that has been adopted. There was also a question about the union. For the sake of clarity, this trade union does not count more than 20 people, so I ask you to be aware of who is manipulating you. At the time when I had these comments, I didn't think I'd be standing here in front of the High House, before becoming the main surveyor, preparing this amendment and now resisting all these allegations. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the changes, because everyone, please, even those who are protesting against this today, will be happy with it, only the dust must come down, the emotions must come down, they must understand the benefits of this law. And I very much appreciate the participation of Members of the Left in the process of hearing and accepting our arguments. It's very valuable, I'm very built for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! Ladies and gentlemen, it is not such a simple bill if you want to change it so suddenly. The Act refers to more than 30 other laws and about 200 regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, geodesia is the heart of investment, it is the basis for investment. You're not gonna start an investment, you're not gonna make it when there's no geodesia, when everything's gonna be like everyone else does, there's gonna be no verification, there's gonna be no surveillance of the databases. So, ladies and gentlemen, this scope of regulation was strictly defined in September 2018. The process, as I said, was quite long-lasting and tedious, but we have managed to achieve some compromise solutions, we have come to the solutions that we are presenting to you today and which - with full awareness, I am sure - will bring great benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has already been mentioned here actually everything, the most important things. I would just like to stress that this is primarily an acceleration of the investment process and improvement for surveyors. Mrs Paluch said that we define the map for design purposes and post-executive inventory. These are the terms we define. But the basic thing we're introducing here is the possibility that these documents are in electronic form. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is a challenge of this time. We want to move away from paper, allow the introduction of BIM technology, so that investment design and implementation as well as exploitation take place in a computerized manner. And this is how - maps for design purposes in the form of IT - this ensures. I am already overlooking all the other issues that have been mentioned in detail here, such as the simplification of the whole process of reporting work, the lump sum fee, which, even the opposition points out, is positive. It's positive because it's simple. Geodeta once pays the fee and has a sacred peace, a kind of all inclusive, as in holidays - paid and any document can be received under this fee. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm going to focus on the answers to the questions, because this is going to be more interesting. At least I will satisfy the curiosity of some Members. But there is one more thing I want to say, because this is very important. The challenge of the time, honourable Members, Members and Members, is that we release geodetic data, huge resources of geodetic data, orthophotomap, which is this view, popularly speaking, from the ceiling of the air. We release the numerical model of the terrain, release topographical maps, as well as, ladies and gentlemen, data from land and buildings records. Each of you will be able to download any piece of Poland on your computer, process this data freely, design investments to the right and left. And it affects, in case I forgot, ladies and gentlemen, the county funds. All those things that were here, and I'm going to answer them in detail, have been balanced so that they remain indifferent to the county funds. I have some specific questions written down. The first question was asked by Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. The question is how this will affect the county budget. As I said, it is so balanced that there should be no imbalance with new charges and old ones, because these things, which have been presented in the amendment, are balancing each other. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski asked if work on the new law had begun. Like I said, no. Dear Member, with regard to the new technologies that are at your heart, we are introducing them now. I've only said a little bit about that part, but I'm serving as an explanation, as a matter of fact. Welcome to the Main Office of Geodesy and Cartography, I invite you to visit the geoportal.gov.pl website. Look at what this page looked like two years ago, and what's happening right now. I show you that you can. I know what I'm doing, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry. I'm a specialist in this field, and I don't hesitate to say it in this room. [[Applause]] Mr. Konrad Berkowicz of the Confederation. Mr President, I am very pleased that you have seen that the surveyor must be a lawyer, a mathematician and yet, so to speak, fulfil many different functions. Yeah, he's a high-end specialist. In order to meet your investment and design needs, to build complex buildings, he must be a high-class specialist, he must be an educated man. And that was your statement. However, I do not really understand what the content of the question was. Based on my notes, all I'm gonna say is it's not gonna be more expensive. Pay attention to what you're missing. We only introduce one fee for surveyors. There's one fee. Then the surveyor doesn't pay for the materials. Even if he has access to everything from this documentation center, it's included in the price. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Mirosław Suchoń asked for an explanation of the quality of geodetic work as to whether the surveyor was responsible for this. Geodeta must be responsible for the quality of its geodetic work and no one will replace it. Data incoherence. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Suchon's second question is whether the software can be changed. Sir, I don't want to brag about it, but I introduced the computerization of geodesia in 2007, when I was then president of Geo-System. I've been introducing some IT solutions that we're all happy about today. But this is to prove on professional grounds, not on the basis of such verbal bullying. I serve to say so, my person and my explanations. The problem isn't in this software. I invite you to see a job application for 100 years. When you see whose call this is, it will explain all your doubts. The program doesn't need to be adjusted. The program is modern. How many calls are there? Ladies and gentlemen! Question nine. Dear Mr Romuald Ajchler. I'm trying to pick up on that question. You mentioned this Communist bill. I think this is a substitute subject, let's not talk about it. Consultation. It's like I said. During the consultation, anyone who made reasonable proposals was heard if these proposals were not intended to eliminate the resource, eliminate the notification, eliminate the verification, and were additional to the regulation to which the government is required to comply. Because we have been through, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the legislative process, through all the consultations that were to be carried out. So some things were accepted, while some could not be accepted. The second question in this block from Honorable Mr Romuald Ajchler was whether the counties could lose. They won't, sir. Like I said, it's been balanced. And in this situation, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few moments left, so I can address a few topics, not questions, but the statements of the honourable Members. Why a year, not two years or five? Tell me why it's a year. Ladies and gentlemen, now the question of surveyors, because there have been such accusations here, it could be said that it is only for the administration, for the officials, but this law actually brings a number of benefits for surveyors. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the law is a regime, i.e. To go to Mr Sosnierz's field and measure something, you have to report work, because if, God forbid, someone goes there without reporting work, they can't measure anything. But if he is in a hurry, he must report his work and wait for the office to give him the material so that he can measure it with you. We introduce in the bill that Mr Sosnierz will invite, will set up a surveyor and surveyor to take measurements already. Why? Because it has all the materials necessary to perform the measurement already available. Because the geodesic warp, such posts, which the state sometimes stumbles on the street, they have defined coordinates. These are the landmarks of the geodesic warp. And these coordinates will be public, because this law releases these data, just as it releases a number of other things, which is an important benefit. In addition, if the Member has a building to set up... And I'll wait for... ...then this surveyor won't have to report anything to the documentation center anymore, but he'll come to you and just set it up for you. If, ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Now, in a second, I will refer to this, honourable Member, but let me just say... Right now, to any document that comes back from... I've already told you about these restrictions. For every document, the resource is issued a license document, with which sometimes people don't really know what to do because they take a map and receive additional papers. So we eliminate this bureaucracy. And, ladies and gentlemen, why the clause. It's not that we want it now, but for years it's that the survey data isn't just a log, that what someone brings is the archive. This data has to match. It cannot be that each of you will have a map of your property, yours, yours, and then there will be a discrepancy. That's why there's an office to keep an eye on these things. Therefore, this order, which is, is a good order. The honourable Member stressed at the committee meeting that it would be somehow, after all, at the moment it is somehow. Well, it is, and it's good because these things are being watched. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But there's no clause.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u230	Thank you very much. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u231	High Izbo! I will try to refer to those comments that have also been made with regard to my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the categorisation of geodetic work is not a novelty. 20 years ago, I stopped doing a surveyor's job. And for me to live as many years as the maps for design purposes I have laid down, sir, I would be the ladies' Matuselah. The clause was. A clause on geodesic material means that this material has been accepted into the state stock. It means that if I go out into the field, make a map for design purposes, measure the location of the buildings and what is the content of the map, for design purposes, I submit this material to the documentation centre, he's uploaded to the map and, so to speak, he's accepted into the resources. Then the principal, when he receives from the surveyor material with a clause, knows that it is valid, because the clause has a date, and it is, so to speak, compatible with the state resource. Everyone in this state resource is working, so categorisation in geodesia has been in memorable times. 5 years ago, in 2015, authentication was introduced as it turned out that after the introduction of 18 tables with a lot of coefficients after the first year of operation of the elders, 50 million zlotys were missing, and it was the elders who led the geodetic resource. So these credentials were invented so ad hoc. A million geodetic works times 50 PLN for authentication - we have the missing 50 million. This bill eliminates all these stories. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the very high fever caused the opinion of the surveyors that I quoted. In a way, that's my opinion, too, because I've experienced it, too. Let me remind you that the Geodetic Law was adopted on 17 May 1989, i.e. at the stage of change - the surveyors' environment defines it so. It cannot be overlooked that these provisions have been amended all the time over the last 30 years. When I started working as a surveyor in the '80s, I was working on instructions. It used to be that you had to use the instructions. These were simply acts of lower rank - orders of the head of the Central Bureau of Geodesy and Cartography. It was known how to make a map, how to make a distinction, how to do all the surveying work. 30 years of changes to the geodesic law is simply a transfer of old requirements, because technical requirements do not change. However well and properly you have to make a map regardless of what it is, so to speak, the system and the rules that were once in the instructions are transferred to laws and regulations. Maybe I'm simplifying it, but that's pretty much the quickest way to describe it. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's meetings are strictly technical, we are leaning on the rules, so we do not have time for general comments. Ladies and gentlemen, further questions. It's not like that -- it's in the questions -- it's the geodecks that make it possible for someone else to have free access to the resource. After all, if the specific warp is free, first of all the performers will benefit from it. I go out into the field, I want Mr Sosnierz to make a map for design purposes, looking for warp points, i.e. posts that have three coordinates: length and width, or flat coordinate, and height above sea level. I need to tie myself to this warp so that my map can match what's in the geodesic resource, so any surveyor... Under these conditions, which was created in 2014, it was that the surveyor went out into the field and wondered if he could connect to the next point, because his bill would jump if he didn't use three points, only four. It was just nonsense. The fee system should be simple, flat-rate, and that's what we're going back to. That's an essential plus. Another point - reporting work. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been a surveyor in almost 20 years, but I keep in touch with my old environment. I heard from my colleagues that there were situations where someone was chasing a surveyor through the D.A. 'cause the surveyor came up with an executive measurement of the installation without reporting. It's just a scandal. And nonsense. Every surveyor is under pressure. Inventory measurements should be made directly, i.e. Not when the cable's buried. The cable shall be measured before being buried in the dig. The plumbing shall be measured directly. It has to be measured in terms of position and altitude, so that it is a direct measurement, which has the highest value. This map is good then. Then you can't walk around with detectors to find out where that wire is, because not every wire can be located that way. The Geodet must act quickly. Working at the interface between geodesia and construction is a constant pressure: take it, engineer, you must hurry, because I have a concrete pear coming in an hour. All the facilitations that have been mentioned here, it's just something that obviously works in favour of surveyors. Now, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sosnierz, your amendment. I spoke to the chief surveyor yesterday, with the Minister, about the inclusion, the control, and so to speak, the consistency with the resource. It's a basic thing. And the point is that in every profession black sheep are found and it happens that among surveyors there is a fact that after Iksinski you do not divide or do not get a job in the same place where Iksinski worked, because you do not get out of it on a judicial day. It just has to be control, it has to be watch over the quality of the resource, because it beats in all, in the next contractors, the owners of the parcels that are somehow misrepresented there. You have to keep an eye on the quality of the material that goes into the resource. There was an infrastructure bill a few years ago... I'm not talking about quality, I'm talking about consistency. ...space information, was data computerization, but we are still dealing with such a situation that this resource, which in these modern media is, has a low quality and there are problems. I measure the connections, let's say, to the buildings, and it turns out that the buildings are shifted in relation to those connections that I measured on the warp and which are well measured have good coordinates. So you just have to get out of this somehow. We talked about this principle of silent consent. I've encouraged your principal surveyor to have this recipe, but it's going to affect the quality of the resource, because if you're going to force some material into the resource, and the survey and cartography unit thinks it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it just needs to come up with an administrative decision to refuse inclusion, and, please, we can judge ourselves in court. And the fact that such low quality material will be included in the resource will be to the detriment of all the next users of the map. This consistency is a huge problem, but there are no simple solutions to get out of this situation. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is one more thing that is going on in our discussion - there is some kind of antinomy here, i.e. One surveyor works in administration and has his point of view, the other surveyor works as a freelance contractor and has his point of view. There's always been conflicts on this line. But, ladies and gentlemen, the district elders run this resource and ask them if they can afford to hire a surveyor with privileges, because it has to be someone with professional experience, because if they don't have professional experience, then how can they check people's jobs and verify them? So it's a question of whether the county governor can afford this... Maybe. ...to hire a person with the highest qualifications and to keep her from doing anything else. This problem has been discussed many times and we will not solve it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I have tried to answer these questions and to explain the problems you have raised. Thank you very much for the declarations of support for the laws that fell from the clubs. I am convinced that the work we have done in recent days in the Committee on Infrastructure and here in the High House will improve the situation. Of course, it will not be an immediate improvement, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case for every legal change, and after a year - I think this is the shortest time - it will be possible to assess somehow, including time intervals, how these rules work and how they confront reality, and will still have to be updated. I hope that sooner or later we will develop the form of these records, which will be the whole surveyor community has satisfied and will facilitate the work of investors who are also beneficiaries of the treatments to ensure that the surveyors work effectively, well and that the quality of their work is high. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u232	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project concerns proposals to improve the implementation of geodetic and cartographic works, which is intended to speed up the investment and construction process. The amendment also includes a number of changes in the procedure for obtaining professional qualifications in the field of geodesy and cartography. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister and the High House to the numerous voices of opposition coming directly from the surveyors' environment. The position of the National Geodet Professional Union indicates that the project may have a negative impact on the economic and social situation of surveyors remaining from the execution of orders and orders in the field of geodetic and cartographic services. In the opinion of the authors of the project, does this amendment pose the risk of a significant deterioration in the economic situation of professionals engaged in geodesy and cartography activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u234	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices (print No 210). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński to present the justification for the project. Excuse me, Undersecretary of State.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u235	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the government, I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending certain laws in support of health-promoting consumer choices. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a project expected by public health experts. This is a project supported by experts preparing an oncology strategy. This strategy was adopted a week ago by the Council of Ministers at the initiative of President Andrzej Duda. This is a project supported by the World Health Organization, which sent a letter to the Ministry of Health with support for this project. This is a project supported by more than 500 public health experts who have signed the call for these solutions to be implemented as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we working on this project? Why did the government submit this proposal to the High House? First of all, due to the fact that in Poland the consumption of sugar is steadily increasing - over the last decade about 12 kg... What have you done for four years? I ask you to remain calm, my fellow Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: About 12 kilos per Pole's head. Obesity grows, especially among children. Over the same decade, the proportion of overweight children has increased by 20%. This is the data of the Central Statistical Office and everyone can get acquainted with them. We also have an estimate that 1,400 people die each year because they consume too much of these beverages, based on the National Health Fund data. These people die 15 years earlier than they would have died if they hadn't eaten so much. We have 3 million people who suffer from diabetes. And research clearly proves that excessive intake of sweetened beverages increases the chance of developing type 2 diabetes by 26%. The second element to which this project relates is the so-called. monkeys, i.e. alcoholic beverages sold in packs of up to 300 ml. Here, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the data of the Ministry of Finance which distributes flags which are applied to such packages, we know that their share of sales has increased by 20% over the last few years. This shows that this is a phenomenon that is constantly growing and which poses a significant threat to the health of Poles. Moreover, this is not the first step. This is just another action that the government is taking to reduce the consumption of products that I talked about a second ago. I'll just mention the most important ones. In 2017, the food industry together with the Ministry of Health signed an agreement, a self-regulation package. She committed to reducing the sugar content of drinks by 10% limit the sugaring of drinks that Poles drink. Ladies and gentlemen! During the meetings we held in the course of the consultation, one of the producers of a very popular soda asked, if the sugar content has decreased during these 2,5 years, said that not yet a little bit. That's not true. The producers have signed the agreement. Member, please. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: In addition, the National Health Fund has prepared a detailed report on the impact of excessive sugar consumption and in particular sweetened drinks on the health of Poles. Each of you can read it, it is available free of charge on the pages of the National Health Fund. There it is very well indicated not only what the causes are, but also what the effects of excessive sugar consumption are. The effects of billions of zlotys spent each year on medicines, on benefits, on helping people who, mainly because of excessive sugar consumption, have had civilizational diseases such as diabetes, but also cardiovascular diseases or cancers. The National Health Fund, after issuing this report, invested additional funds in preventive research, in the action of "No sugar" carried out in the voivodship branches of the National Health Fund and delegations. Patients were given access to free blood glucose tests under NFZ measures. These actions have had some effect, but they are still unsatisfactory. We have therefore decided as a government to adopt a project aimed at reducing the consumption of sweetened drinks and alcohol sold in the so-called. Monkeys. What is the essence of this project? As far as the charge for sweetened drinks is concerned, it is divided into two parts. It is a fixed fee for each drink with added sugar. Let me mention that this does not apply to natural fruit juices and other products in which sugar is not artificially added. This applies, of course, to all other sweeteners. In addition, there is a variable charge depending on the sugar content, where each gram of sugar over 5 gr per 100 ml is added a small fee per litre of drink. In addition, there is a fixed charge for the additive active substance, i.e. caffeine or guarana. There are also a number of exemptions from this fee. First of all, this applies to beverages that are registered as medical devices, as special foods or as baby foods. And of course, the whole category I was talking about, which is products that do not contain added sugar, only have only sugar present in the product naturally, e.g. 100 percent fruit juice. There is also a group of products which are exempt from the fixed fee. These are products which contain at least 20% fruit, fruit and vegetable juice and isotonic drinks, in accordance with the opinion of the Food and Nutrition Institute, according to the definition covered by the European Directive indicating the criteria which drinks must meet in order to be included in this category. In addition, with regard to the so-called fee. Monkeys, it is 25 PLN per litre of pure alcohol in a monkey, for example this is a $100-millimeter bottle of 40 percent vodka, 88 gr from a quarter-litre bottle of wine or 38 gr from a quarter-litre bottle of cider. What will the funds be used for? There has been a lot of controversy that this project is not a fee, it is a tax and it should be introduced from 1 January. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be made clear that this tribute which we propose... Tax, not tribute. ...to be regarded as a fee because the funds from these fees will be earmarked for a specific purpose, i.e. that the funds from the sweetened beverage levy will be used to finance benefits under the National Health Fund. At the end of the year, the fund president will have to report how the funds he received from this fee were allocated to... 6,8%. ...prophylaxis and treatment of diseases that arise precisely from excessive consumption of sweetened products. As regards measures from the so-called. Monkeys, they will be halfway to local governments just for anti-alcoholic prevention activities. As a result, we have a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, because it is on the shoulders of local governments that many tasks are falling precisely in the fight against the effects of excessive alcohol consumption, especially monkeys. They are often drunk in places where alcohol cannot be consumed, while local governments, which have not yet had the means for effective prevention, had no real instruments to fight this problem. 42% will be used to finance benefits under the National Health Fund and 8% to finance benefits under the National Health Fund for the functioning of the tasks of the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. I am talking about events, I am thinking future, because these are the amendments that have been tabled to the Committee on Health, and we, as a government, will want - as regards the amendment on the allocation of funds to the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems - to allocate funds. As far as economic issues are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a great deal of comments made by entrepreneurs. From the very beginning we have been consulting, they have taken place with all sectors. There were meetings with anyone who wanted to present their opinion to the Ministry. There was also a meeting with the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. There have been meetings with both industry representatives and specific companies. Anyone who wanted to express their opinion on the subject had the opportunity. We've made a number of changes. First of all, there is a large variation in the rate of the sweetened beverage levy: we agreed with the demands of the industry, which claimed that the objective of reducing the consumption of sweetened beverages would be better achieved when incentives for reformation were introduced and, ladies and gentlemen, these incentives were introduced. What does this show in practice? E.g. the fact that a drink with a fruit juice content of more than 20% is covered by a fee of 2/3 lower than a drink which is actually a solution of water with sugar and caffeine. As far as further changes are concerned, we have introduced simplifications under the monkey levy, which of the tens of thousands of shops, as is the case with the so-called ones. the traffic charge, transfer it to the wholesale level, which means more than a dozen times the number of operators covered by the levy. The National Tax Administration deals with the distribution of funds between the municipalities according to their share in the sale of alcohol, based on the so-called report. cork charge. Furthermore, in response to business demands, we would like to support the amendment introducing an extended period of vacathio legis, extended until 1 July this year. The middle of the financial year. Ladies and gentlemen! This is another step towards implementing our actions in such a way that they are, on the one hand, more acceptable to entrepreneurs, on the other hand, leading as soon as possible to achieve the goal we are talking about, which is a health-promoting goal. I would add that as part of the allocation of these funds, the National Health Fund in the same project was given the opportunity to transfer money from the NFZ budget up to PLN 117 million per year for prevention of primary obesity prevention, i.e. for sport activities under the SKS in schools. This is a continuation, more funding program, which is successfully implemented by the Ministry of Sport. We're counting on this program instead of 500,000. will cover 1.5 million children. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the government, I request the support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u236	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice, I would like to recommend a position regarding the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, print No 210. The aim of the draft law is to use fiscal policy that will affect healthy consumer choices, which assumes a change in the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, the introduction of a charge on alcohol sold in packs with a volume of up to 300 ml and charges on sweetened beverages. The introduction of sweetened drinks is a promotion of healthy behaviour of citizens and concerns drinks with added sugars being monosaccharides or disaccharides and foodstuffs containing these substances and sweeteners. In the project, the fee is divided into a fixed and variable part. The obligation to pay a fee once a month will rest on the entity that sells the drink to the retail outlet. Producers of infant formulae, medical devices, registered food supplements, special medical foods and excise products, producers of beverages containing at least 20% fruit, vegetable or vegetable juice and isotonic producers in accordance with Commission Regulation (EU) No 432/2012 shall be exempt from the levy. The changes are aimed at reducing and inhibiting emerging trends of increased overweight and obesity, reducing the incidence of diseases associated with the consumption of excessive amounts of foods containing sweeteners and thus reducing the cost of treatment. Revenue from both sweetened drinks and alcohol charges will affect the local government and the National Health Fund. I must point out that European countries such as France, Ireland, Portugal and the United Kingdom have also introduced fees for such food additives that threaten the health of children and adults. High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have a positive opinion on the amended legislation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a very difficult task for me to fight myths, legends and ordinary lies about the bill. In fact, this project has a very nice, I would even say a lovely title: to change some laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. But if we take these 20 pages of the bill and read it, then, Minister, about health, there are no words here, there are no words about prevention, there are no words here, [[Applause]] There is no word for obesity-related civilization diseases. This is outrageous! You're referring to different opinions. But there was a public consultation, a lot of them. I'm not gonna talk about beverage producers, I'm not gonna talk about alcohol producers, I'm not gonna talk about gardeners, I'm gonna talk about gardeners, I'm gonna talk about opinions that have been expressed by health organisations. The Institute - Children's Health Center, Mother and Child Institute, Professional Unions of Health Workers, Polish Society for Obesity Research, took a stroll after this project like nobody else. Like no one. They're clearly saying... You're invoking that the WHO supports that. Where? Show me any letter from the WHO that supports this bill. In fact, you are silent on the previous WHO documents, which say something completely different about obesity. We need to tell Poles clearly and clearly: this is not a project that fights the obesity of Poles, only 41st new PiS tax introduced since 2015. [[Applause]] Yes. And so, when we look at this project, the first half is about alcoholic beverages. A new tax on alcoholic beverages. No finesse, no health, no obesity. It's a gross extra tax, and it's from drinks packed in the right bottles. Because it is worth asking the Minister: How is it that alcohol poured into a quarter-litre bottle harms, and half-litre is okay? That's it. If you say it's a sugar tax, tell me, how much sugar is in pure vodka? Because I was taught in chemistry that nothing like it's made well. And the second part of the project is about drinks. Indeed, this is true - and statistics show - that Polish households buy less and less sugar, but sugar consumption is not decreasing. Where'd that come from? If he asks the experts... I know, you don't ask. If experts ask, they will answer: there is an increasing amount of sugar added to food products. But when the same experts ask us what percentage it is, it turns out that we only consume 19% of this sugar in drinks. It means that this bill works if even sugar, 19%, and by 81% you forget. That's the truth. If this is supposed to be a pretend-fight with obesity, then, Minister: What does caffeine have to do with obesity? What does the guarana and the taurines in this bill have to do with obesity? Answer my question, because if you read literally the records, you could say that, however, coffee and tea served in bars and cafes will also be covered by this tax. Answer the question: How did this act disappear, or in fact an exemption has been added, that if something is a dietary supplement, it will not be covered by this tax either? Is it gonna be like not taxing children's clothes on VAT? And then you can buy children's clothes at the Polish store at 182 cm. 'Cause who's gonna tell the producer not to write that it's a baby suit, except it's 6'10." What is worrying about these opinions is that milk producers are also concerned. Moreover, the Institute of Mother and Child and Child Health clearly states that according to these records (the Bell) this tax will be covered by modified milk type ready to feed. And worst of all, this bill... Your Marshal, last argument. Go ahead and finish it. The bill contains provisions on exemption from this tax for commercial networks that import their drinks, yes. This means that when you buy from a Polish producer a drink made of Polish apple, from a Polish fruitor, it will be more expensive, and if you buy it from Germany, France or anywhere else, it will be cheaper. Finish your work, sir. Yes. This is a bill that hits the Polish consumer, because you say that you want to tear 3 billion PLN from Poles. Disgraceful. This is a bill that is harmful to Polish producers, because all beverages imported from abroad will be cheaper. And this is a bill that hits Polish gardeners and sadists. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u240	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll introduce the club's position, which is divided into two threads. One concerns the sugar tax and the other concerns the spirit tax. According to the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, the proportion of drunks who are risky and harmful, which is important here, is estimated to be 18.6%. As it should be pointed out, this group drinks alcohol, which is available on the market, in 70%. So this is the largest consumer group. In the consumption of pure alcohol, we approach the record year 1980, when a statistical citizen drank in various forms 11.8 l of alcohol. Today, the result is 11.6 l, of which 8.5 l is vodka. Indelicate, because as much as 29 percent share in vodka consumption have the so-called. monkeys, i.e. alcohol sold in bottles of 40 to 200 ml. On a daily basis, it is sold from 1 million 300 thousand. to 3 million monkeys. Every day, I'll stress. More than 800,000 monkeys are sold each day with a capacity of 100 ml. Pieces. In the perspective of the year, this gives about 1 billion bottles fondly called monkeys, but it is important to remember that behind hundreds of thousands of these monkeys there are human and family dramas. These monkeys are sold mainly between hours. 6.30 a 8.30 a.m. and after 6.30 a.m. 16, which means that they are mainly purchased on the way to work and from work. 60% Monkeys are taste vodka, most often chosen by young people and women. The proposed bill assumes an increase in the price of high-interest alcohol sold in small bottles, i.e. those with a capacity of up to 300 ml, by 1 PLN per 100 ml. For example, a 200 ml bitter vodka will go from 11 PLN to 13 PLN. However, according to the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, the charge which would effectively discourage the purchase of the monkeys concerned should be from PLN 1.5 to PLN 2 per 10 g of pure alcohol, so that the price of this bottle is not, as I said earlier, 13 PLN after the increase, only from PLN 24 to PLN 32. In view of the above, the question arises as to whether the actual purpose of the project submitted is not to supply the budget. To some extent This is, of course, a noble condition, because 50% of the additional fee will feed the budget of the NFZ. Therefore, we propose to increase the additional charge to the level requested by PARPA and introduce a minimum packaging size for high-quality alcohols - 500 ml. With regard to the second topic mentioned in this Act, I would like to say that sugar tax, commonly called sugar tax, introduced by the proposed law, is a good idea in principle, but it was not possible to avoid the shortcomings reported in earlier stages of the work on this project. To some extent, the presented project looks like a gift to multinational large beverage companies - at the expense of native, often family producers with decades of tradition. The Act contains a number of faulty solutions regarding the toll collection system, including rules enabling large commercial networks to avoid the charge. In the new tax there is also a gap allowing the production of dietary supplements and sports drinks without all or part of the fees. It is interesting to introduce twice as much as in the case of sugar drinks containing added caffeine or taurine. It is up to 10 gr per litre of drink, and in the case of sugar it is only 5 gr. As a nutrition technology, I must say that taurine itself plays a role in the proper functioning of the nervous system: it is responsible for the production of the GABA neurotransmitter. Taurine also reduces excessive stimulation of the body and does not favour obesity to any extent. It is unacceptable to have a very short period of vacathio legis: the law is to enter into force on 1 April this year, while in the UK sugar tax was introduced for 3 years. It should also be remembered that the government recently withdrew from the project of introducing a fee for advertising dietary supplements, and this is a very poorly controlled market in Poland, preying on unawareness (the bell) of consumers and consumers who are encouraged by advertising in the style of a tablet for everything are usually unaware of the risks arising from overdose. In the light of these reservations, the Left Club is in favour of directing the project to work in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u242	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u243	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the opinion of the Koalicja Polska - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the governmental project concerning the amendment of certain laws in connection with the so-called. promote the health-promoting behaviour of consumers. The project of changes in my opinion is not aimed at healing the Polish society, but at healing the Polish budget. It's a typical fundraiser by the rulers in areas that can still be taxed. This is demonstrated by the combination of several cases, which should be examined separately and subject to specific regulations. As can be combined in one amendment, a difficult issue concerning the reduction of consumption so-called. Monkeys and sweetened drinks - and originally even dietary supplements - when it is known that all these issues should be considered separately? Even the issue of artificially sweetened drinks and their consumption should have a completely different strategy for children and young people than for conscious adults. [[Applause]] That's right! What is the connection between all these issues? The money that's supposed to flow through the wide stream to the state budget. I'll start with artificial sweetened drinks. The key question is: If health-promoting behaviour is, according to your justification, a key issue in this amendment, why not bet on promoting healthy food, healthy drinks? Why don't you put zero VAT on healthy food or lower other fiscal danins for healthy juices and drinks so that they're even competitive against unhealthy, artificially sweetened ones? The answer is simple: because the easiest way for you to reach for someone is to raise prices and get an additional budget impact here and now. A long-term strategy? You can't offer that. Another piece of the case. Have you read the position of the National Association of Juice Producers Union? Once again, I remind you, you had to withdraw from your ideas about this sector of the economy, trying to change the VAT matrix. Once again, you want to protest the sadists and related industries. Polish juice producers indicate that none of the countries in western Europe, including Germany and the Czech Republic, introduced charges for sweetened beverages. Importantly, as the juice producers point out, the sugar tax rate even in those wealthy countries of western Europe that introduced it is several times lower than that proposed by the PiS government in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The designers of this solution will lead to our Polish juices being still less competitive than sweetened drinks and, by the way, the government will hit its own segment of the economy, hit agriculture and related industries. Therefore, at the request of the members of the Committee on Agriculture, I request that this draft be referred also to the Committee on Agriculture. Finally, it's the monkey thing. In fact, if the government really wanted to fight this plague, it would take other measures, not introduce a new tax. You're doing it cynically, ripping off those who have a big problem. Their families will be losing even more after your shift, too, because these monkeys are gonna be even more expensive. Why don't you try to eliminate a certain litre of bottles from the market? It just doesn't pay off because that's what you make money from. On drunkenness, which occurs as a result of the consumption of these monkeys, the Polish government wants to make money, not fight this plague. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u244	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u245	Ladies and gentlemen! One of the members of the ruling formation wrote less than a week ago commenting on the EU's idea of introducing a meat tax, such words: Typical leftist mentality. People don't want to go vegan? I'm gonna give you a meat tax. I ignore the fact that this whole thing looks beyond ideology for a very serious lobbying operation. This was written less than a week ago by a member of the formation who is now introducing a sugar tax to discourage people from drinking sweetened beverages. Besides, this is the same Member, Sebastian Kalet, who signed a declaration before the election, an undertaking that he would never vote for an increase in taxes, and then in the first vote he was in favour of an increase in excise duty. That is the credibility of this power. But the worst part is not that this is the credibility of this power. The worst part is that this authority thinks it can dictate what they eat, what they drink and how much they weigh. Well, he can't. Well, he can't. There were children here, but parents are responsible for the children. Politicians, get away from adult Poles and get away from their children. That's not your role. But it's not really about health. It's not really about health. And I have proof of that. It's happened several times, but I have proof that it's not about health, because if it was about people stopping drinking, I understand, sweet drinks, and they started drinking healthy mineral water, you wouldn't have introduced VAT increases on mineral water last year. [[Applause]] You did it because it's just another excuse to rob Poles of their money. And that's a scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to the second part of this tax change, i.e. the so-called. Monkeys, the truth is that today, when it comes to pure alcohol, almost 60% of the pure alcohol consumed is in beer, 30% in spirit products. On the other hand, with regard to tax revenue, excise duties, the situation is reversed because this higher percentage of alcohol is taxed by higher excise duties. Moreover, beer is advertised in our country, unlike vodka, to wine, to other high-interest alcohols. It's regularly advertised. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, if you count this, the number of monkeys that are bought in Poland every day is already mentioned here 800,000, while the number of beers sold in Poland is about 16 million. That's 16 million a day. 16 million a day. Today 16 million half-litre beer packs are sold. And now is this really about the fight against alcoholism, the fight against alcohol, since we've had several increases in consumption over the past 30 years of beer, and we've had a decrease in the consumption of high-fat alcohols? Is this about fighting alcoholism, including alcoholism, which also leads to overweight in the case of beer, as we all know? Is that really what this tax is all about? I don't think so. That is why I wanted to thank you from this point of view... I wanted to congratulate really effective lobbying to big companies, three big companies, which dominated the beer market in Poland, of course foreign companies, because in fact this regulation is their masterpiece. Because it's not gonna be like these more expensive monkeys are gonna make those people who have a problem with it stop drinking. No. They're gonna switch to a beer. Much of them will be transferred to cheaper beer, which is not subject to these regulations in any way. Because it's not simply taxed ethanol, it's not taxed alcohol, it's taxed its very specific type. That's why this is my thesis. This is all, apart from reaching into the pockets of Poles again, it is excellent, also regarding the next government, lobbying actions of those who want Poles to drink as much alcohol as possible, only another. And that's the secret, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u248	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? Then do it. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I regret to say that once again, the government reaches into citizens' pockets to meet its financial needs, actually budget deficits. Ladies and gentlemen! On a health-promoting pretext, more taxes are being introduced and introduced. It is worth noting that these taxes will hit consumers as well as producers of beverages, but also fruitists and farmers. Poland is the third apple producer in the world, the fifth apple juice producer in the world, namely apple concentrate. The introduction of this charge will actually eliminate Polish producers from the market, while the (Bingle) product is left in the form of drinks of sweetened companies such as Coca-Cola or Pepsi-Cola. That's the first line. Second line. If the state is so concerned about the health of its citizens, why is 22 percent VAT introduced on water, which is the healthiest? Three. So I propose that the government give up the water tax for sweetened drinks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u250	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u251	The fact that this is another of the ten previous taxes that rob our residents is obvious. But I wanted to draw attention to what was supposed to be the most important, not health education and diabetes. A little short-lived, synonymous with sugar, I'm sorry, synonymous with obesity, and then diabetes. More than 40% of women are overweight, more than 50% Men, and in children it is drama, they are in the order of 1/3 and in the future, and in this area should be educated, metabolic syndromes such as diabetes, hypertension, cholesterols, elevated triglycerides, uric acid. A little drama and tragedy. You shouldn't be scared, but you should be educated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just that sugar is forcing sugar. Shortly - it is such a phenomenon, it is re-examined, that if a child eats a lot of sugar, the body produces large, sometimes monstrous amounts of insulin. The sugar disappears, the baby demands another sugar - and this is where the vicious circle begins. That's one thing the Minister said about obesity. Let's educate, let's educate. Maybe let the sweetened drinks have different colors... [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u252	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Then Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u253	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add so loosely that sugar does not necessarily lead to obesity, as it is said here. There are, of course, obese people, often eating candy, but thin people. They often eat candy too. Me, for example. I make coffee with five teaspoons and I'm fine. There's something else called genetic predisposition, something like movement, for example. Running, swimming, sex. Oh... I have a question: Do you, as you look at the silhouettes of some ministers and Members, not think that they lack something other than sugar tax? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u254	Thank you, sir. That's an interesting statement. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u255	I think it is worthwhile to think about what you lack. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ha, ha, ha! It's like ad vocem of your speech. Member, I would not go that far, I would not go that far. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The problem of obesity among children and young people from year to year is growing dramatically worldwide and unfortunately also in our country. Recent data show that obesity among children and adolescents has increased by around 20%. Minister! I have a question about this bill: Is it true that obesity among children and young people leads to many diseases, and will this bill largely support the eradication of this problem? Are such solutions (the Bell) used in other countries? If so, which one? Is it true that the resources collected under this fee will be allocated, honourable Members, to the education, prevention activities that will be carried out under the NFZ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u256	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must confess, unfortunately, that I am in favour of sugar tax, even though I am economically liberal. But I think that only economic requirements will make us teach Poles not to eat sugar, to eat sweets. But I'm in favour of a real sugar tax too because I feel like sugar is addictive and how much you have to watch out for not eating too much sugar. That's why I know it's very important to make a real sugar tax. But I have a question for the ministers and the government: Do you have the courage to have a real sugar tax without any exemptions? It's not from sodas, it's from real sugar. [[Applause]] If you care for your children to stop getting fat, I call you to courage. Let's make it real, over the divisions, sugar tax. Sugar in the ankles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u258	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll admit, I'm very fond of the sugar tax project. Sugar is not encouraging - contrary to what Melchior Wańkowicz said. Sugar is the cause of obesity, it is the cause of many diseases. I don't see anything wrong with imposing regulations that are supposed to encourage people to live healthier lives. Mandatory jogging. It's not taking away their freedom. Those who want to drink sweet drinks will do so, and the measures that we will get from the taxation of these drinks will go to prevention, to treatment for diseases. I think it's really okay. But my question is, aren't we stopping in half a step? In particular, it is the non-taxation of dairy drinks with added sugar. In my opinion, there is no difference in whether sugar is dissolved in water or sugar is dissolved in juice or sugar is dissolved in milk. It's the same sugar and it should also be taxed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mother's milk is also taxed. There's sugar in there too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u260	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, PSL - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Deputy Minister of Health sits there alone as a finger, although we know that this topic does not only concern the Ministry of Health, because also many other resorts, but health is a smokescreen today. I would like to ask, perhaps the Minister will be able to answer whether the government, instead of raising charges for the so-called. Monkeys, for example, attempted to eliminate from production and spill alcohol into bottles in small lithographs. That would really stop drinking this type of alcohol. Did you at least try, or did you immediately introduce the tax to get the money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the entire governing camp if it realizes how many children are sitting and playing different computer games today, which is very harmful to them. Some children, including adults, watch pornography, which is also very harmful. Don't you think it would be good to introduce a high tax on electricity excise duty? They're watching this because of the energy, aren't they? The point is to raise the electricity tax to fight this plague of pornography, to fight this, ladies and gentlemen, excess computer games. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u264	Thank you, sir. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u265	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Speaking of monkeys and that tax. I hear that the government wants to rip off Poles, take everything to the budget, while countering alcoholism is just a screen for which it stands. Yes, sir. Maybe we should check what's written in the bill after all. Plus, there's a declaration from the Minister of Health. First of all, neither the gold from these monkeys goes to the budget. I don't know if you've read it. What? Where? To local governments, i.e. to the state budget, halfway. The second part goes to the National Health Fund for addiction treatment, but not only, also obesity, and according to the declaration of the Minister of Health also at the Polish Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, for prevention. I remember the words at the meeting of the finance committee when there was a discussion about excise duty: we would support an increase in excise duty, and it would be significant if this money were to go into real prevention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they're coming. What's wrong with that? So let's think about what the motive is. We're in charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u266	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u267	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With so little time, I would like to say this: I would like to connect Mr Berkowicz with Mrs Jachira from the Civic Platform. Someone's short of candy, somebody's too sweet. But seriously, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is only a proposal to rob Poles again, so that the budget, which is penetrating, in short, fill in in any way. This is the first case. The discussion about sugar having something to do with alcohol, and it has nothing to do with withouts, with doughnuts, with other matters that concern the health of Poles, is pointless. With bars. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put it this way: if we make such a bill, it will turn out that people who will be richer will have more money, they will be able to buy greener and healthier products (the bell) and those who will not have to pay more, will have to pay more, to the budget of Law and Justice another donation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u268	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u269	First, a little attention for the voters, if they're watching us. Once again, you can see that you are no longer free men, you are slaves of the state. You got bought with your own money, and now the government's cutting your leash again because you can't get sick because it's gonna cost the government. Obes live less, pay less taxes, and more health care, so you can't do that. But those who don't brush their teeth also live shorter... Ha, ha, ha. ...so the question to the Minister is when to check the purity of the teeth. [[Applause]] Bravo. And the second question is, how do you like this idea? Because we exclude from this bill dietary supplements and medical devices, and Coca-Cola, as we remember, started as a cure. So what do you say we buy Coca-Cola at the pharmacy again after 150 years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u270	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy? In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What you're proposing is not a health-promoting solution, it's a very high tribute. Prices will increase by 30%, 40%. Only the intention is right. You can't change bad eating habits with this new tax. The sugar tax is a failure in the world, does not reduce sugar consumption. Consumers buy cheaper, more calorie substitutes. To change this, first of all change the rules, introduce health-promoting rules. If you don't know what it is, I invite you to consult, I can point it out. The concern for the health of Poles is to wash their eyes and reach into their pockets. You weaken Polish families, farmers, gardeners, processors. You will bankrupt Polish companies. You enter something in the middle of the financial year when deliveries and prices are already contracted. The bill has many gaps, ambiguities, and this is a leaky system. This tax will fund the NFZ budget. You promised the Poles 6.8%. Is the budget of the NFZ going to increase, or are you going to have savings of PLN 3 billion? And what are you gonna use them for? For the propaganda on TVP or the limousines? And one last question. Why 300 ml? Maybe they'll start producing 310, 320, 350, 400 and so on.? And, Minister, the tax is supposed to be declared and paid in advance. If less juice is sold, where are the tax refund laws in this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u272	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u273	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 20 December, when I called for more regulation of the dietary supplement market, Minister Cieszyński assured me that soon there will be a law that I will be pleased with, because it will address this issue in part. Well, Minister, I'm not happy. No? Bravo. In the original version of the Act there was a 10% tax on advertising of dietary supplements. It was supposed to bring about PLN 100 million. The value of the advertising market for supplements is estimated at about 1 billion. Since 1997, it has grown twentyfold. When we push unnecessary, untested products - the average period from market entry to testing is 2 years - the wealthy corporations, and the state completely withdraws. I hear you want to see the industry self-regulating. That's funny. I have a question: What happened that you no longer want to limit the advertising of dietary supplements? What changed, and who was so persuasive? Madam. Since the Ministry of Health needs finance, it needs money, the dietary supplement market is uncontrolled (the bell) not regulated and not taxed as it should be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u274	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! 7 sins of the main act. First of all, it is a lie that you will use this money to support the fight against obesity. You're just making a heist out of money. They are needed in the budget. It's a prima aprilis bill. It's kind of weird when it comes to this idea. Second thing. We had a big fight over juices and drinks and nectars, which contain at least 20% of juices. You said this was the last fight. Unfortunately, you're pulling out of this today. In addition, you point out that this is one of the sins of the main act, that in addition to any turnover there will be drinks that will be imported through the networks, by retailers to consumers, but also (The Bell) will be bought abroad. We can't agree to that. We used to fight obesity, there was this so-called thing. Cupcakes. You were the advocates of their further introduction. This is therefore unacceptable. It's just a cashier's heist - 2.5. billion, three billion, or do you want more, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u276	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The general principles of the bill appear to be correct. The problem is that these health-promoting actions do not fit into any logical and coherent policy. For example, let us try to standardise VAT rates in an inefficient way. To this day we have many types of sweets covered by the privilege of reduced VAT rates. It is absurd, for example, that raw water without calories has the same VAT as non-gased sweetened drinks or certain types of chips. There is a lack of any coherent policy to promote healthy food. Finally, I'm going back to the question. What happened that you didn't want to limit the adverts of dietary supplements anymore? First, these solutions were in the project, and now they're gone. What happened? Thank you. [[Applause]] Lobby.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u278	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. In that case, I would ask Mrs Daria Gosek-Polish from the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a step in the right direction, but my concern is a few provisions that give the possibility to avoid the charge by large commercial networks which directly order products from manufacturers, i.e. have so-called. own brands. The Act does not provide for an obligation to pay a fee on retail sales by the importer. Why a hypermarket can sell imported juices under its own brand without any tax, and Polish producers, our native seedlings producing e.g. Will the pressed juices have to pay the tax? You talk a lot about supporting the Polish countryside, Polish food producers, and when it comes to it, you give the forums to hypermarkets, corporations, giants on the market, and you leave our native producers far behind. Apparently, they're not really important partners for you. And I'll get back to the question. What happened that you no longer want to limit the market for food supplements ads? What's changed? Who convinced you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What arguments did he use? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u280	Thank you, Member. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we read that the proceeds from the drink charge will hit 96% to the National Health Fund. In turn, the National Health Fund will allocate the funds it has acquired, among others. for educational and preventive activities. I therefore ask what specific funding the Ministry intends to allocate for educational purposes and for prevention purposes. What educational and preventive actions will the National Health Fund implement? Will educational activities also be consulted with the Ministry of National Education? Please indicate concrete actions, as the introduction of this fee seems only to be another tribute aimed at finding another million zlotys to complement the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u282	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Necessary of the Left has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Lobbyist, I apologise to the rapporteur, from the Civic Platform, was very amused by the fact that alcohol in larger bottles harms less than in small ones. He was very proud of his ignorance... What are you talking about, man? This ignorance needs to be disbanded, i.e. The National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems has no doubt that small bottles, so-called. Monkeys are good for risky drinking. Anyway, it's very logical, nobody who drinks healthy, who drinks harmless, doesn't buy a little bottle of vodka on the way to work and doesn't buy the same one back... [[Applause]] Make the producer pay. So we have no doubt that reducing the sales of monkeys or banning the sale of monkeys would be very beneficial for tackling the alcohol problem. Here you can only appeal for more courage to the rulers. Infect the monkeys. Let the smallest bottle allowed be 0.5 l. I'd like to get back to one more question. [[Applause]] But we've filed a motion for rejection. I don't think you've noticed. What happened to the supplement advertising tax? Why did he disappear? Who convinced you? What happened? This is a very interesting story. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u284	Thank you, sir. I ask Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Research carried out in 2018 shows that the average Pole ate 51 kg of sugar this year and that over the last 10 years consumption of sugar per person has increased by almost 12 kg. The problem in our country is that there are no clear rules that determine how much sugar a given product can contain. This is particularly true for children's products, which is why I think it is important to tax not only high sugar products, but also fast foods and food containing a large amount of chemistry and MOM - meat from slaughterhouse waste. All food additives such as emulsifiers, fillers, spoilers and food colours should be subject to a very high tax. The law should be designed in such a way that it works in favour of healthy food, which does not have any kind of improvers in its composition. Finally, I absolutely believe that the return on these taxes should be 100% allocate to health-promoting and shaping healthy eating habits. Such a bill will be a real test of your intentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u286	Thank you, Member. You have the floor, please, with Adrian Zandberg, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u287	High Izbo! This bill is a step in the right direction. I will not join the coalition of the Confederation and the Platform, which repeated the position of lobbyists and vodka producers. The problem with this bill is different, i.e. These are the bizarre exemptions that, as we have heard, the Ministry introduced under pressure from producers. Again, you lacked the courage to do meaningful things. You're exempting sweetened milk products from the levy. My question is: Why? After all, every parent knows that producers have tons of sugar in them. This applies especially to those dairy drinks which are intended directly for children. I'm not going to mention their names, but we all know brands that pretend to produce healthy food and actually build very bad habits in kids. This exclusion is of course profitable for several manufacturers, but it is simply contrary to the declared purpose of the bill and it is impossible to explain logically the reason why a McDonald's shake is to be exempt from this charge, Minister. Finally, the question that was changing, to which we should finally hear the answer: What happened that you did not want to limit advertising supplements? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How come you guys gave up that record? Did somebody do it again, or was it just cowardice in front of lobbyists? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u288	Thank you, sir. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker is here for the first term, so he still has the right to believe. I don't believe it, because it's just a racket made to take it down. [[Applause]] Money for the budget. You've been doing this for a long time under different pretenses. It doesn't matter to you that you're destroying businessmen and farmers. The health problem is just an excuse. Why do you not consider the failure of the sugar tax in the world: Denmark, Finland, Great Britain, Hungary? It will bring losses to Polish entrepreneurs and fruitors, weaken the competitiveness of Polish farmers and sugar processors. Many entrepreneurs will give up investment and innovation. Listen to the Jagiellonian Institute, according to which the regressive nature of the consumption tax will result in a relatively greater loss of prosperity of less affluent households, those in whom food has a greater share in the spending basket. Listen to him. Think about it and tell us if this 2.2 billion PLN of revenue from the sugar tax will come to the health of Poles. [[Applause]] ...budgetary impact, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u290	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I agree with my previous speakers from the Left - this law is a step in the right direction. However, there is a lack of concreteness here. In the explanatory memorandum we find extensive information on the need to reduce sugar in our diet, but very little space is taken to explain how you plan to implement prevention of bad eating habits. For now it seems that the money that will influence the NFZ, which is of course right, will be used primarily to treat the effects of the obesity plague, not to prevent it from arising. So what is the plan for implementing preventive programmes and what is the plan for financing them? Is the NFZ supposed to finance the SKS? Finally, I would like to ask what happened that you do not want to limit the advertising of dietary supplements. Why did these solutions disappear from the project before it was sent to the Sejm? Who influenced this decision, and why? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u292	Thank you, Member. Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Promotion. What do we associate with, and are the goals that, at least in theory, you assume, possible to achieve also through a reduction? Perhaps preferential prices, a reduction in prices for those products that serve our health could potentially have the same effect. But you don't really care about the health of Poles, but about their money. All you have to do is look at the OSR that you've prepared, which, in my opinion, is clearly proof of what I'm talking about. You're assuming that this preference, this promotion, will have no effect. The revenue to the budget for the next 10 years will be the same. If it were otherwise, if you were to assume that this would affect consumer preferences, the consumption of these (Ringtones) harmful to the health of products would have to decrease. You are deceiving Poles and us all once again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u294	Thank you, sir. Mr Romuald Aichler, Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u295	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I'm not hiding that I have a problem. I have this kind of problem that I really like sweet products, I like sugar. And you don't look like an MP. And today, with my club, do I have to vote to tax myself? Not really. If, Minister, your idea was that we're introducing tax because we're missing money, I don't know, and that's my second question, and I'm about to ask them, how many billions of dollars for health care and other expenses, I'm sure I'd seriously consider it. But you want me to pay a tax on what I like? Not many of us would have made that happen. Minister, I address Minister Kowalczyk. Minister, I don't believe what you're saying. Believe me, we've known each other too long to believe when you say it doesn't go to the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No. It's coming. I believe it. Minister, one question. What revenue does the state budget expect from this tax, from this law that you are drawing up today? Thank you. 3 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u296	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Obesity is a big problem. We all know that, and no one needs to be convinced of it. But, ladies and gentlemen, fiscal policy cannot be the only tool to fight obesity. Where are the educational activities? Excuse me, but first you need a tax, a charge to run educational activities? And the money secured in the budget for prevention? Ladies and gentlemen, please don't joke. Go ahead and read it. Four years ago, and basically five years ago, we introduced restrictions in school shops for the sale of beverages, bars, yeasts. And what happened to it? You've restored your previous condition very quickly. And now you have to pay a fee to keep going. This is the first one. Second case, vacathio legis. Please pay attention to what the producers say. How can you put them in danger in such a short time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't let them decide, what's next? Thank you (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u298	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u299	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a substantive question, because, of course, this project is very appropriate. Why do you not differentiate the rate in this draft from glucose-fructose syrup and normal sugar? As regards sweetened drinks, glucose-fructose syrup is the main cause of obesity. It is known to inhibit the secretion of leptin in the brain, which is responsible for the sense of satiety, so it is this syrup that should be imposed much higher than normal sugar. That's one thing. The second thing is that both sugar and alcohol have a psychoactive effect. Here, as was rightly pointed out, many people with income below the poverty line or on their borders are under constant stress. It is these people who will first touch this tax. Since people eat stress (the bell), very often sweets, I suggest, if we are already aiming at the National Health Fund for this money, to allocate it to psychiatry and child psychiatry, so that they would receive better and more accessible help from people who are currently using alcohol and sugar to deal with their mental problems. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u300	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u301	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's about money, there's nothing to be fooled at all. [[Applause]] 41. The tribute you've been introducing since you took power. If it weren't, Minister, today we'd be talking about education, prevention, which is exactly what the money's going to go for. He'd probably be here... Perhaps the Ministry of Education would provide accurate information on this subject. But this isn't about that. The point is that within 3 days, exactly 3 days, the bill will be passed and 3 billion zlotys will be drawn from it. Nothing else. You could talk about it for a long time. My previous speakers have already told me how you have eliminated good proposals so that there are no sweet things, among others. So the kids can't buy them at school shops, etc. But I have a question for you, and please answer in writing. How much in 2019 and how much in 2020 [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...pay and pay as the Ministry of Health for products and sweeteners and sweets? As a ministry. I want that information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] Yeah, how many cookies...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u302	Thank you, sir. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd say it's bullshit. Of course, I will read the name: the amendment of some laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. Of course, it's a great name and a great fight, only hell is paved with good intentions. And the record is very hard, and it shows that... I will speak on behalf of Polish farmers. I'm the Vice-President of the Agriculture Committee. How can you do that? We've already defended the juices once, once we've defended the drinks, in which the content of the real juice is above 20%. Let me remind you that Poland is a unique country where the content of this juice is so large. And what does it turn out to be? Of course, the Minister is right, with this first part of the tax they are exempt, but it is already written down - and please check on p. 12 - that the sweetening of even a unique Polish currant juice or aronia, which must be sweetened, because it is tart, will cause this juice to be taxed (the bell). [[Applause]] And Polish beer - because this is the biggest act on the promotion of Polish beer - will not be taxed, but will be non-alcoholic. So tell me, where's the health-promoting behavior if the beer isn't subject to this bill at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u304	Thank you, Member. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law has only a fiscal objective and is the biggest threat in the history of the bottle industry of 70%. Polish industry. What about other industries producing candy, milk drinks, yogurt? I have a question, Minister: Who will pay the tax: producer, wholesaler or retailer? It's definitely not a health bill. Drinks have far less calories than other products with sugar content. There's no health prevention in this bill, there's just a simple bounty on the bottle industry. The law is imprecise, leaving no time for the necessary changes to be made, recipes, stockpiling. Such solutions should be implemented gradually, in advance so that entrepreneurs (the bell) have time to prepare negotiating strategies in their relations with counterparties. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u306	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The discussion should be serious, but it reminds me of Stanislaw Berea's classic and talking about how much sugar is in sugar. [[Applause]] Because although the title of the bill has a very nice - the law on promoting health-promoting consumer choices - for me this is another law that concerns the collection of money from taxpayers' pockets. Maybe because I have been here for many years and I recall situations concerning school shops when Mrs Anna Zalewska thundered that this regulation is absurd, idiotic and will lead to the bankruptcy of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. At the time, Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł spoke to her, who announced the return of the yeast - although it was slim, but the yeast. I also recall that not long ago here, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, a colleague of Lidek Gądek and I were collecting signatures on the ban (The Bell) on the sale of energy drinks to children under the age of 18. It didn't interest anyone here, on this side. I have a question, though. Light drinks, sugarless, calorie-free, are usually sweetened with more than one substance. They will be taxed higher than those sugar-sweetened or syrup-free. What does that tell you? Please answer me. Is it really such a guarantee that this money will be extra money for the National Health Fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u308	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u309	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I see there's a coalition of PiS and the Left. Both formations feel excited about introducing a new tax. Because it's not about anything else. There is no Minister Szumowski, but this is President Kowalczyk. Everyone knows it's not about health, because if health were important, then the minister would be. Money, money. Minister Kowalczyk, Mr Kowalczyk, Chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, is making sure that this tax passes. So am I. So is the Health Committee. Mr. Chairman, too. It's not about the budget. Minister! Poles consume about 51 kg of sugar. The beverage industry is responsible for 9 kg. How much will your sugar consumption fall after this bill has been introduced? Two kilos. It's not gonna fall. 51 kg is so far and once the law is in place it will be the same. This is assumed by the Ministry of Health, which publishes an assessment of the impact of the regulation on the project with the same revenue in terms of tax (Ring) as so far. Minister! So where's the health issue? Where is the opinion of the World Health Organization that drink taxation is not helping to combat obesity? Where is the experience of the UK, Denmark, Finland, which introduced these taxes and stated that they did not work? Do you know these regulations or do you not know them? Do you know these experiences or do you not know them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u310	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u311	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is called a law on amending a law promoting health-promoting consumer attitudes. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, why didn't the PiS tell the Poles what it was like, in short, what the bill should be called, so: how to scrape citizens for another 3 billion PLN? That's the truth. PiS has no money, PiS is looking for that money in the next tax. That's all you really want. You want to take care of the health of Poles, do it, reduce the queues to specialists. It is sometimes more than three years for professionals to wait, sir. Start fighting the debt of hospitals that glide. These are the concrete actions you should carry out. The problem of alcoholism is a big problem, it's not open to discussion. What are you really gonna do with this bill? The fact that now the most popular monkey is going to be a 301 ml monkey. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the truth and perhaps this will increase pathological drinking in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u312	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Every law that robs citizens is antisocial and that the left and left of the PiS want to praise it will not change that. Ha, ha, ha. However loudly you would have shouted that it was for the good of society, it would still be. This law should be called an expensive+ or pseudo-sustainable budget. The scandal is the fact that cooling drinks are thrown into one bag in small bottles and alcohol in small bottles, so-called. Monkeys. It's a sign of how the sales of monkeys are perceived. The authors of the bill treated them equally with cooling drinks, although some of them can be used as rusters. And we're talking about alcohol that's easily accessible and cheap because it's in small bottles. I ask: How much will the price of such a monkey increase in the store? About 50 gr? About 1 zloty? Do you really think it'll stop the sale and consumption of that alcohol? No. I call for you to finally start fighting this plague and prohibit the sale of alcohol in the so-called. Monkeys, just like they do all over the world, because our youngsters are drunk with this alcohol. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u315	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first word may, before the question, to the Left. I would like to remind you of such a clear truth that once this bill is adopted, its beautiful title will not apply, it will not apply as a right in Poland to justify this law, nor will the Minister's beautiful words about the fact that it is fighting obesity in children, only the provisions contained on 20 pages of the bill will apply. And there's no word on the fight against obesity, there's no word on sugar taxation. [[Applause]] How can we not notice that the drink tax, which is made from Polish juices, apples, strawberries, cherries, is introduced from the first gram of sugar? But I think you used to eat strawberries, cherries. It's all sweet. These drinks are naturally sweet. And they, on this, on the natural (Bingle) juices, introduce a tax. But that's not true. Their intentions are clear then. Minister, this is where you... But don't lie to me. When we banned the sale of not sweetened drinks... Not from this sugar... ...just any junk food in school shops, why did you bring it back? Why do Polish children eat junk food? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. As the last Member, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened to the voice of my predecessor, but also to other voices and I wonder: ignorance or conscious lie? I mean, some things aren't gonna be taxed. Besides, the minister's gonna talk about it in a minute. On the other hand, it is absolutely clear to me, unambiguous. If the representative of the Civic Coalition is not a member of the Health Committee, there is no doctor, and there are no doctors from your club during this debate, only an economist, someone from the finance committee, it is all clear. Well, it's a statutory tax. That's how you feel about it. At the same time, I thank the Left for understanding what is positive in this bill... He doesn't understand. ...and what to lean on and what to talk about. We want to increase expenditure on health care, we want to increase expenditure on prevention. Then why are you against it? Why do you object to the introduction of this tax or the public tribute (the bell) that will be regulated here... Why are you against it? And as for dietary supplements, I thank you for the declaration that we will be able to talk about this in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u318	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a very informative discussion, but the list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted. In the discussion, conclusions were made... Excuse me, but of course the answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Janusz Cieszyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u319	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the many voices that have been cast in this discussion, but unfortunately I must start not by answering, but by correcting. Well, the rapporteur, Mr Urbaniak of the Civic Coalition... I'm not the rapporteur. Excuse me, representing the club's position. I'm so sorry. On behalf of the club. Of course. You were referring to the fact that the Children's Health Center is opposed to this solution. So I will read to the High House the first point of the presentation of the Children's Health Center: The project is part of European recommendations such as (...) and the European Academy of Paediatrics, which highlight the need for sugar consumption. Dear Member, it is even greasy so that everyone can see this particular point. And why lie? I've got it, too, Minister. Then you shouldn't have lied. You also pointed out that there was nothing in the bill about what educational, preventive measures should be put in place. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in a provision that indicates what the National Health Fund allocates these funds, it is clear that they are targeted at educational and preventive activities and the provision of health care related to the maintenance and improvement of the health status of recipients, with diseases developed against the background of inappropriate choices and health behaviour, in particular overweight and obesity. It's in the bill, not in the justification. So that's correct. When it comes to issues related... You also mentioned that milk would be covered by these charges. That's not true. It won't. Nor will dairy products, of which some of your fellow Members have mentioned, be covered. This is due to the recommendation of the Institute of Food and Nutrition, which indicates low intake of calcium in Poland. Here someone was talking about dairy products in the context of sheikhs from one of the fast-handling networks. Products sold in catering premises will not be covered by these charges at all, so that here we only speak... That's where you can go. Sugar and sugar. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister did not interrupt any of you when you asked questions, so please let the Minister answer. Please. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: There was also doubt about own brands. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is also due to the demands of Polish entrepreneurs, because where the placing on the market concerns those who produce their own brands, the one who orders production is responsible for paying this fee. So there is no way that a large commercial network, which, as part of its own brand, has commissioned something from a Polish subcontractor, would in any way transfer the cost of this fee to it. It's a request. just small Polish entrepreneurs, which the Ministry of Health took into account during the consultation. As for Mr Rutka's position, which encourages us to introduce higher rates... In our view, these are optimal. They've been disbanded with the environment, with experts. In our view, they will achieve the goal. There is also no question of any discrimination against Polish producers. In particular, it is worth noting that in relation to those drinks that... You rightly claimed that they are unique, that they also have health-promoting properties, contain the addition of natural fruit juice. These drinks, compared to e.g. with a soda drink with added caffeine, are covered by a 2/3 lower rate of charge, which in our opinion reflects the relationship in terms of health benefits, and significantly differentiates these products due to their different characteristics and effects on the health of Poles. Very often and surrounded by negative comments and various suggestions appeared a question about dietary supplements. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said many times during this legislative process, after discussions with the industry, and after examining the rules, after examining our proposals and discussions with the Ministry of Finance, we have come to the conclusion that the proposal we have tabled will not be adequate to the challenges facing the dietary supplements market and will therefore be included in a broader revision of the Food Safety Act. There'll be more taxes. I admit that I have indeed promised Mrs Zawisza that this will be earlier. It's gonna be a while later, but I'm sure it'll come up from a government proposal. NFZ budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Just one at a time. As for Mr Klimczak's proposal to introduce zero-percent VAT on healthy food... Well, of course there is a lot of healthy food for Polish production, while there is already a lot of so-called food. healthy food produced by foreign companies. It is not in our view that it is reasonable to support such entities. It is not in our view that it is reasonable to support producers of German milk and other products which, in our view, will not have a significant impact on society due to their high price and origin from imports. As regards Mrs Czochary's questions about the impact on children. Ladies and gentlemen! There were a number of voices that didn't work out. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to take a look at research. They show even a 19-percent decrease in consumption of sweetened beverages and replace them with water, water, on which the tax on goods and services last year was not increased, contrary to what fell from this speaker. So I'd like to correct that information, too. How much is it? 23. Nor is there any plans to modify the VAT rules within this project. It's up to the Ministry of Finance. And contrary to some suggestions, the representative of the Ministry of Finance does not have a very specific reason, namely that it was the Minister of Health, because of the nature of the project, that the Prime Minister authorized him to represent before the Sejm. But it's a tax. Regarding the suggestion that this is a tax, I would like to point out that it is clearly stated in the project that it is a fee. The tax is something completely different, subject to a completely different regime when it comes to legislation. So that you can't agree with this thesis. That's still smart. With regard to Mrs Jachira's request, which was also expressed in other statements concerning the inclusion of other sweetened products - ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the sweetened drinks are 19% as regards sugar consumption in Poland. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to growth in terms of dynamics, drinks are sweetened in one of the fastest growing categories, and this is a category that children are particularly often attracted to. This is also the opinion of the experts with whom we worked on this project. If you look at fiscal instruments that use other countries in Europe and in the world, you always use instruments that include sweetened drinks. It's a tax. Isn't there a tax? On the other hand, only a number of countries have chosen to cover more categories. This also concerns the question, Mr Gdula's request, whether we are not stopping in half a step. In our assessment and assessment of our experts, this is a solution that is based on international solutions, proven and proven effectiveness. On the other hand, with regard to the position of the World Health Organisation, I declare that we will publish this position so that each of you can get acquainted with it. This is the position that the Ministry of Health received on 10 February and the conclusion of which is that the World Health Organization supports the introduction of such instruments. Mr Korwin-Mikke took the opportunity to joke about the issue of child dependence on pornography. However, I cordially invite him to the Ministry of Health, where, together with a national consultant, we will be happy to discuss the dangers of pornography for the youngest Poles. Besides, the government plans to introduce appropriate regulations, which will also help to resolve this problem. I'm sure it doesn't seem like a good reason to joke. Mr Soszer's proposal to control toothwashing does not deserve to be included in this project. On the other hand, in answer to the question whether coca-cola will be available at the pharmacy - indeed, you are right, both coca-cola and pepsi-cola were invented by the pharmacists, but we do not have such an idea. If this is to be a suggestion that they will be registered as dietary supplements to avoid this fee, then it is absolutely not possible. These products shall be registered by the Chief Health Officer and such a gate, such circumvention shall in no case occur. Mrs Niemczyk asked about health records. Dear Member, I invite you - although this is President Latos' prerogative - to discuss this at the Health Committee's meeting. If you present any provisions, we will probably be able to refer to them and discuss these proposals in detail. On the other hand, it was quite often suggested for these monkeys that producers would switch over to packages with a capacity higher than 300 ml - the words were 301, 310. Ladies and gentlemen, until the European Directive is in force, so-called. a packaging directive, this will not be possible, as this directive clearly indicates what volumes of packaging are allowed on the market. This is 100 ml, 200 ml, and only later are larger volumes, just above 300 ml. Most popular in sales - 0.5 I. Mrs Skowrońska asked about drinks with 20% fruit juice content. I would just like to remind you that these are products which, in our intention, will be covered by a different regime in terms of fees. He will take into account their specific properties and the fact that they in a different way than those drinks, which are actually a mixture of water, sugar and some artificial additives, affect the health of Poles. Like I said, 1/3 of what we know about soda drinks, the most popular drinks we know from store shelves - that's what this charge will be for these products. Mrs Gosek-Popielek asked about hypermarkets. As I said, this provision aims to put in place a situation that will ensure that those who sell their products under their own brand will not be able to impose adverse price conditions on their suppliers, because it will be on them that the burden of paying this fee will lie. That's what these rules are supposed to be about. We will be happy to discuss this in detail tomorrow at the committee meeting. The same is true of these doubts concerning abroad. It is absolutely impossible for this project to prefer foreign or import entities in any way. Mrs Beyat asked about prevention. As I've already pointed out, that's what's gonna happen to her. They will, and Mrs Gill-Friday asked, to psychiatry. Here, in turn, it will be the funds derived from the so-called fee. Monkeys. With regard to the exact plan of how it will be spent, the ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the amount of PLN 117 million in support of sport of children and young people, will be able to support classes in schools already using 0.5 million and thus benefit 1.5 million Polish children, all actions will be planned by the National Health Fund at a time when the funds we are talking about will appear in the National Health Fund's financial plan. As I will remind you, the revision of this plan, which I hope will come into force after the adoption of this law, is always, every time, subject to opinion by the Parliamentary committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health. So that there will be an opportunity to talk about concrete increases in funding for precisely those preventive measures that you are asking about. Mr Ajchler asked about the budget revenue. Dear Member, there will be no revenue for the budget, because these funds will go to the National Health Fund, to local governments for the task of anti-alcoholic prevention, and if such an amendment is tabled and I hope it will be, also to the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, so that it can carry out its activities. Mrs Niedziela just mentioned blackcurrant juice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that blackcurrant juice is undoubtedly a Polish specialty, a national treasure, but the addition of sugar is so significant that it is a product that contains 11 g of sugar per 100 ml. If you look at the labels of other, most often coming to mind, such unhealthy carbonated drinks, you may be surprised if you compare the sugar content of these products and the juice. Therefore, we encourage producers to pay only a variable fee to reformulate, i.e. to reduce the sugar content of this product. Mrs Navel pointed out that the vacathio legis of this project is too short that it does not meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that we believe that an amendment is appropriate, which I hope will be discussed tomorrow during the work of the committee and which will shift this entry into force by the next quarter, so that these obligations on the part of entrepreneurs can be implemented efficiently. There was also a question about light drinks, which were subject to a charge higher than those which are sweetened with sugar or glucose-fructose syrup. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not reflected in the content of this project. That's not true. If the product does not contain added sugar... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, may I finish? Thank you. ...it will only be covered by a fixed fee, so that here in principle this fee will be lower. It will certainly be lower for the same light or zero product and the same with only sugar content. There were a few more questions, but... Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any further questions to answer? Yes. Yes? You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Thank you. How many billions? (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the financial impact is concerned, according to our forecasts, the state budget has been asked this question, it will not be powered by any resources, while the National Health Fund, local governments and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems will receive funds according to our forecasts of about approx. 3 billion PLN per year. Such a question was raised - Mr Suchoń asked - as long as consumption falls. Ladies and gentlemen, this consumption, sugar consumption, sweetened drinks consumption over the last decade has increased by 25%. The success of this project will be to stop this growth. Stopping this growth, which leads to the health effects that I have been talking about and which are warned by experts from whom oncologists, cardiologists, are warning us about, are warning us about by the World Health Organization. That's why we can't exactly... And the yeast? Dear Member, the project does not concern yeast. Not this project, not this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close the discussion in a moment. Let's, you wanted answers, so listen. Member, please. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: So that, as far as this volume is concerned, the question about the WHO opinion, today we will publish it in its entirety so that all of you can get acquainted with it. As regards other countries, the countries that have already put in place such solutions are the United Kingdom, Denmark, other Scandinavian countries, France, Portugal, countries that are also a little further, further away from Poland, such as Mexico, the United States, or closer, such as Hungary, where such solutions are in force, the ladies and gentlemen, not since yesterday, not since the day before, only since 2012, 2013 and in which they are working, and in which, as I have already said, in some cases have even led to a decrease in consumption of 19% as regards sweetened drinks. I would stress the replacement of this consumption with water, which should respond to the concerns of the bottler industry, which you also mentioned today. Mr Rutnicki asked about queues for specialists. Dear Member, just this week, thanks to a very good and certainly much better financial situation of the National Health Fund, we have published the assumptions of a project that abolishes the limits for financing specialist advice in the four most bespoken clinics of Polish patients: cardiology, neurological, orthopedic and educational. [[Applause]] And these are the real actions of this government in terms of improve access to specialized care for Polish patients. With regard to Mr Łącki's question, as long as the price of a monkey increases, we cannot, of course, influence in any way how the price will change, because it is always the domain of a retailer, that is the domain of the entire distribution chain. Here, on the other hand, one of the clubs of the Left quoted the opinion of the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, which indicates that such growth would indeed be justified, because it is the consumption of alcohol in these so-called ones. Monkeys, let me remind you, have increased by 20% in the last few years - Whereas the share of monkey in the whole volume of alcohol sold has just increased - it is most appropriate. Yet Mr Urbaniak was gracious to ask for a fee of 1 g sugar. Dear Member, in the case of juices, I apologise for drinks with at least 20% fruit juice, fruit and vegetable juice, if there is any charge, it is imposed from 6 g sugar and above, and this is exactly in this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, I hope, all the answers to the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u320	Thank you very much, Minister, for the very comprehensive answers. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project addresses the important issue of introducing tools aimed at combating overweight and obesity, in this case by imposing a levy on drinks with added sugars and foodstuffs containing these substances. Without denying the idea contained in this project, I would like to draw attention to the issues raised, among others. by a spokesman for small and medium-sized enterprises. The basic allegation to the authors of the project concerns a number of difficulties in conducting business activities for entrepreneurs on which the project will affect. This is demonstrated, in particular, by generating new administrative burdens, the proportionality of the solutions adopted, or the unjustified imposition of fiscal burdens which will adversely affect demand and supply. What is the government's position on these allegations? In addition, the plea of infringement of the rules of law was raised, in particular by amending the rules on taxation during the calendar year, and the potential need to notify the draft law. Should this proposal not therefore be re-examined for potential legislative errors?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u322	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to additionally refer the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. Isn't that good for you? Your Marshal, for the correction, the Minister has replaced me several times... No. The Minister answered the question. Please, sir, really, that's enough. Please, sir, please, okay? Thank you very much. Your Marshal... We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2018 (Print No 98) together with the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission (Print No 231). I ask Mr Przemysław Czarnek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u323	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a meeting was held between the Joint Committees: the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee, the subject of which was information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2018. This meeting was held at the request of your marshal. On 19 December 2019 the Marshal just forwarded this information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission for consultation. During the committee meeting, Mr Marek Ast presented the reasons for the President of the Constitutional Court, the reasons for the absence of the President at that meeting. Members of the opposition, some of the Members of the opposition, alleged that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal had not acted in accordance with the law. In the course of the discussion on this point, clarifications were provided, supported by clear legal provisions. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall not have a legal obligation to attend a committee meeting. Unique obligation laid down in Article. The 13th Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal indicates that the President of the Tribunal is required to provide such information. In turn, the provision of the article. The 124 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm clearly indicate that such information is to be served and therefore to be written information. It shall be delivered to Members in order to be familiar with this information. Moreover, the Sejm does not vote on this information. Some of the Members of the opposition regretted that such presence would nevertheless be advisable, but during the discussion at this point the beliefs of some of the Members of the opposition, which clearly pointed out that Mrs Przyłębska, the President of the Constitutional Court, had indeed justified the renewal of this meeting. I'm going to quote one of those statements. This is about Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz's statement, which was also repeated by other Members: Today there is no Constitutional Court in our country. There's a building and a board at the entrance. The institution has been dead since the end of 2016. In the Constitutional Tribunal there are illegal doubles of judges, the illegitimately elected President. At that time, the question arose as to how the opposition Members would like to invite the President, since they clearly claim that the President is not here because the tribunal is dead. No logic that is indeed a common flaw in these statements. In view of the above, President Ast has requested that no further discussion be held in the absence of substance of such statements. The proposal was adopted by a majority by the committee and the committee concluded its deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u324	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the information submitted by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the activities of the Court in 2018. First of all, from this point of view, I would like to make it very clear on behalf of my club that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice accept with understanding the decision of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal not to attend the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the discussion of the information submitted and today's meeting of the Sejm. Unfortunately, over the past three years, the Constitutional Tribunal, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the President of Julia Przyłębska themselves have become the subject of very violent attacks, unauthorised attacks. Under the law, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is obliged not only to direct the work of the Constitutional Tribunal but also to take care of the authority of the Tribunal and its image. These unprecedented attacks, often supported by insulting scams at the address and the President of the Court, and individual judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, challenging the legal basis of the Court's action, challenging the status of judges and empowering the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to run this institution, certainly did not serve as a means of raising the authority of the Tribunal. In my deep conviction, this attack on the basis of the functioning of the tribunal should also be identified with the attack on the political foundations of the Republic of Poland. In this situation, it is clear to me that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal understands the arguments. All the more so I would like to thank you for the fact that the President of the Court, and the judges of the Tribunal are working under these difficult conditions, giving judgments, giving judgments, giving decisions. Evidence of this is the information submitted from the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2018. She shows the scale of the tribunal's activities, while also shows the non-judgmental activities of the tribunal. I would like to draw attention to it, because dozens of conferences, lectures which take place at the Constitutional Court somehow give the view of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, also give such a profound knowledge of the political and constitutional issues of the Polish state. For this reason, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal deserve really great respect. The Constitutional Tribunal is one of the most important institutions of the Polish state, one of the most important of its organs. He deserves the support of the Polish state. And Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the United Right will do everything to ensure that this support of the Polish State to the Constitutional Tribunal is always strong and guarantees the functioning of this body. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u326	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When records were created for the Constitutional Tribunal years ago, no one had any doubt that it should be a guardian of the Polish constitutional order, i.e. one of the key institutions of the state of law. I would very much like to say that the tribunal is working well and fulfilling its tasks. Yes, I would, because that would mean that we have an effective guardian of the Polish Constitution. Unfortunately, it's not. The last more than four years have shown great arrogance from the rulers of both the Constitution and the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, it is right to believe universally that the Constitutional Tribunal, although formally in existence, has been abolished in practical terms in terms of carrying out its tasks, playing its role. Ms Julia Przyłębska claims that under her rule, the Constitutional Tribunal is acting flawlessly, but in fact it considers fewer cases and gives fewer judgments, much less than in previous years. This is the result of a lack of trust in the tribunal not only in the legal world but, above all, in us citizens. How can it be otherwise if the President himself has taken a position under questionable legal circumstances? Judgments may be affected by a legal defect because they are issued by persons who are not allowed to rule, and the tribunal shall rule as the politicians of the governing party expect. The year 2018 to which the information relates was the worst year in terms of the number of cases that have entered the Constitutional Court since 1998. At the time 237 cases were brought and 23 cases were brought in 2018. This is also the worst year in terms of the number of decisions given. In 2018, 36 judgments and 36 provisions to terminate the proceedings were issued. 88 judgments were issued in 1998, including 33 sentences and 55 provisions. But then a constitutional complaint and legal questions were new institutions whose lawyers were just learning. For 21 years, the activity of the Constitutional Tribunal has not been as low as in 2018. This is the result of an increasing lack of confidence in an institution that has recently enjoyed a great deal of authority. The Court is clearly subject to the current power rather than to control it. As far as expenses are concerned, these, unlike the Court's activities, have increased. In 2018, 33.7 million PLN was spent. This is an increase of 7,3% compared to 2017, i.e. 2,300 thousand. zł. 1640 thousand were allocated to the employee awards. PLN 6100 per person on average. In the same year, according to NIK, a car was purchased for the amount of 181 thousand. zł. So the expenses are increasing, the activity is not. I believe that independent Poland deserves the Constitutional Tribunal free from the practices of the President - so ends the letter addressed directly to Mrs Julia Przyłębska not by the representative of the opposition, but by the judge of the Constitutional Court, which is part of the documents presented to the Senate Committee and describes the extraordinary practices applied by the head of the tribunal Mrs Julia Przyłębska. It is about blocking cases due to the electoral calendar, tampering with formations, taking documents from the judge's office in the absence of the judge's office, examining cases by judges who are directly concerned, holding important letters or publicly expressing their position on the matter before its decision. This is a picture of the Constitutional Tribunal, which under the leadership of Julia Przyłębska can be described with words: small, slow, expensive and dictation of power. We regret that the crisis around the tribunal is the result of bad governance. Fixing Polish democracy will have to start with the Constitutional Tribunal, in order for each of us to return to the belief that he lives in a law-abiding state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u328	Thank you, Member. Now I would like to ask Anna Maria Żukowska, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Shakespeare Hamlet assessed the state of the state of which he came to be a prince, with the words which in the Polish translation are: bad things happen in the Danish state. In fact, this quote in the free translation reads: something rots in the Danish state. Unfortunately, something rots in our country the same way - the rule of law rots, the case law of the most important authority is rotten when it comes to assessing laws. It is a constitutional body that should enjoy prestige. Unfortunately, his prestige under the leadership of Judge Przyłębska falls. The caselaw also falls. What does that lead to? Mrs Dolniak pointed to a decreasing number of court rulings. This means that the courts who bring their own inquiries to the Constitutional Court are waiting for a long time - they cannot wait - for decisions on matters that are relevant to Poles and Poles. How long do we have to wait in court? Member of the Commission, among others. Therefore, it is awaited in the courts that, when referring a question to the Constitutional Tribunal, you do not get an answer. The courts, and therefore the judges, rule by applying the constitution directly to what they have the right to do. [[Applause]] This should be the case when in Poland the Constitutional Tribunal does not act as it should, does not act as it should and at the rate it should and how it acted in the future. Question: "Why is this happening?" Why wasn't President Przyłębska gracious to appear here and before the High House to present a report which she sent in writing, of course. Unfortunately, she was not tempted to appear before us and tell us about the work of a tribunal called the President. He's the president. He's the President of Law and Justice, and so was her duties... And the law. ...and as a live one, sir, there is no such function in the Constitution. Just as there is no provision in the Constitution that you are introducing a muzzle law, namely the first President of the Supreme Court. These are inventions only of the Law and Justice. We're making a bill right now. The Constitutional Tribunal has... There are a number of reservations about how Judge Wyrembak works, who, as a live one, is not related to the opposition in any way, nor is he a journalist, he is simply a judge. He himself pointed out, from the inside of the tribunal, to what is going on there, what is simply called gossip policy, the discretionary award of cases to judges or not taking decisions at all, because the electoral calendar of Law and Justice does not provide for certain subjects to be taken. Thus Judge Wyrembak in his letter addressed to the President of Julia Przyłębska made his allegations. Unfortunately, neither Judge Przyłębska nor anybody else from the Constitutional Tribunal was willing to answer these allegations. We believe as a Left that it is very discrediting to the Constitutional Court that this obligation is not being exercised by contacting Parliament and submitting, citing the operation throughout the year of this very important institution, the Constitutional Tribunal. Question. Will the tribunal continue to play the role to which it was appointed in the Constitution? Will those judgments have the rank they've had so far? Unfortunately, we think this rank is falling all the time. Therefore, and in connection with the allegations cited, inter alia. Those who have been cited by Judge Wyrembak, we will not be able to claim this report as the Left, and we will not accept it as a club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u330	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on information to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the activities of the Court for 2018. I'm going to start presenting my position from... it's hard to find the right word, the great profession, the amazement of your absence, both at the joint committee meeting and today, when we are proceeding on this information in plenary. I agree that the law does not require the presence of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal when the High House is leaning on the annual activity report, but as I said at the committee meeting yesterday, today I will repeat this, Parliament is the law, but Parliament is also a good custom. And this good manner, Madame Przyłębska, in a rude way, broke yesterday and breaks today. [[Applause]] Dr. Adam Bodnar could also say that he was the subject of the attacks. Nomen omen recently Judge Krystyna Pawłowicz has repeatedly attacked the Ombudsman. But was that a reason when his presence was required to make the Ombudsman say he wasn't coming? It didn't happen once. Have other representatives representing the very important authorities of the State who present their reports ever sought such methods? Never. Mr Marek Ast, while just presenting the report, said that the authority and image of the Constitutional Court require or require that the President does not appear. I would say the opposite, Mr President. Today's situation around the Constitutional Court, its failing authority and its diminutive image would, as never, require the President to present today to the High House the details of the activities of the Court in 2018. But she wasn't afraid either, she wasn't avoiding the fact that she was also in the current situation, about the current activities of the tribunal. It is a pity, because these questions and doubts, but also such a normal debate about the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal is extremely necessary. Yesterday I emphasized, and today I will also repeat this: I never attacked the Committee on Justice and Human Rights when the issue of the Constitutional Tribunal was discussed, its activities from the various years. I never, I don't know, made an impression on some bad attitude. You put all of them in the same bag as those who don't grow up at all, they don't create room for discussion. I do not qualify for this division that you have presented. I said some. You're an exception. I am all the more amazed at this situation today. There's a lot of things we won't know. This gives the impression of fear, fear and fear of the President of the High House, who has gained the power to learn this information in order to be able to get acquainted with the current activities of the tribunal. And this good habit - I will return to the beginning of my speech - has been broken for many years in the House. There is also a very dangerous precedent for other key institutions or constitutional bodies just such disregard for the High House. I don't have to. I'm not coming. All this makes the Parliamentary Club the Coalition of Poland not accept this information. We are (the bell) extremely astonished by this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u332	Thank you, sir. As the last Member of the Confederation, Robert Winnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's settle this situation in context and imagine that autumn 2015 is coming. By taking advantage of the law, you're doing what you did. You fallandise the law, you choose the next judges to the Constitutional Court, you take over the Constitutional Tribunal, and here we go. What the Poles are really waiting for begins. Real reform of the justice system, real reform of the judiciary. It's shorter, it's faster, it's fairer. The judges are evaluated, there is an electronic circulation of documents, the processes are shorter, you are introducing... you are deburerocratizing these processes, that is to say you are moving a significant part, raising the quality of the staff accompanying judges, raising their salaries, and thus the judges are relieved of this bureaucratic work, which is currently collapsed because the judicial system in Poland is working badly. And we all know it. The only problem is that the way you dealt with the Constitutional Tribunal, I would say, could be legitimized. This could be legitimized under three conditions: that we assume that you acted in an emergency condition, a state of higher necessity, and suppose that the Platform created such space with its actions with Rzepliński. Secondly, it would be temporary. And thirdly, you would have brought about a fair order very quickly. You know what I'm talking about, don't you? He knows what kind of These are considerations. Because the question is what kind of order introduces what you're doing in the Court, what you've been doing with the entire judicial reform for four years. Is this really anything other than a party staffing cast? I'd really like to believe that, and I gave this kind of credit at the beginning of my previous term of office... I wanted to believe that this was really going to happen, that you had a plan. That the eight years you spent in the opposition, that's not blood in the sand. But unfortunately, it is. You came to rule in 2015 with empty drawers. The Password IV of the Polish Republic was thrown into the trash. No institutional change, no reform of the state, no simple staff cast, no social transfers, and, of course, billions for TVP to make propaganda agree. And everything. The state, as was the case with the dictation, unfortunately, is under your rule on every level and every single stage. And that also applies to the tribunal and concerns the judiciary. What about the grandstand? Oh, my God. I really think that everyone, not only a professor, but also a graduate of KUL, should be ashamed of the defence of Mrs Przyłębska, who, due to party policy, including in 2018, and earlier in 2017, and later in 2019 specifically for political reasons, torpedoed the application of a group of Members, most of your Members, Members of Law and Justice, on eugenic abortion. And you, Professor, know very well that this is what happened. And such an unfair party order that will achieve ad hoc goals... Of course, you will achieve these goals. It means it's very hard for any government, even if, God forbid, the left-liberal opposition took over... Definitely not the Confederation. We're trying to make it the Confederation. Yes, sir. Ha, ha, ha! We're trying our best to make it the Confederation. If, God forbid, they've taken power, even they won't change everything you do in the judiciary, because they probably won't get the constitutional majority, and they won't be able to reverse certain things in the KRS, etc. Short legs have it. It just doesn't create any new order. No institutional change. This is the measure of failure. That's the measure of failure in the court, that's the measure of failure in the courts, that's the measure of failure in the court. It's the fact that you came in and structurally entered the SLD boots, then the Platforms, you're just doing it with a bigger nerve and a bigger frame. And that is the real problem of this power and this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u334	Thank you, sir. We've finished our speeches on behalf of the clubs and the circles. The questions have been raised by 10 Members, except that questions may be addressed to the rapporteur. You're aware of that. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Catherine Ueberhan, Left. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the joint committees met to hear information from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, we could not do our job because the President of the Tribunal, quoting a member of the bureau from the governing party: he has the right to ignore Members and he has no obligation to appear at the committee meeting. After one and a half hours of discussion around the absence of the President and the unanswered questions, the sitting was closed because it was concluded that the discussion on the information communicated to the committees could not be held in the absence of the representative of the authority which drew it up and to whom it was concerned. Do I have to ask these questions that I couldn't ask at the committee meeting yesterday? Who do you want me to ask? To the rapporteur? After all, he is not the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, nor is he a judge. He's just an envoy, just like me. Who will answer as to the circumstances of the judgment in the case of the KRS referred to by the judge of the court of Wyrembak, or when the judgment on the dispute of competence will be brought (the bell)... Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member. ...since the Court's work has slowed down, and the number of judgments Drastically falling. Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Magdalena Łośko. All Poles have the right to know what is happening at the Constitutional Court... Thank you, Member. This is the third time I'm asking you to finish. ...especially since it is not financed by private funds by the President of Julia Przyłębska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u336	Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Member, please don't abuse it, okay? You're welcome. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! The absent President of Przyłębska! How to ask questions to the rapporteur? So I will ask the rapporteur if he thinks there are two things in the world for which there is no cure: death and insolence. The Member justified the absence of the President of Przyłębska and did not say anything about case law. It's arrogance. not only your president, but also yours, because some time has been spent today explaining your absence. What's this court line look like? Less cases, less judgments, more rent-a-bedroom costs. This information on the number of judgments was provided by Mrs Dolniak (The Bell), but the arrogance to these questions, despite the report submitted... Thank you, Member. You're the one who was ignored, your marshal, the way you behaved, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's your failure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u338	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Danuta Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u339	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Information from the Constitutional Tribunal on its activities in 2018 is a good example of the Degrengolade of the Constitutional Tribunal. The main activity of the tribunal, that is, the judicial activity, is presented in an extremely laconic manner, but one cannot hide the evenly slippery nature of the tribunal. It is shocking to know that in 2018 the Court passed 72 judgments. This is a preliminary assessment of constitutional complaints. How many years does it take to present a final assessment of 72 decisions? However, in extenso, the report informs about the non-judgmental activities of the tribunal, about the conferences organised, e.g. on a conference on Constitutional identity with the participation of Ambassador Przyłębski or Bronisław Wildstein. Maybe instead of practicing fiction and pretending that we have a real Constitutional Tribunal in Poland, rather than some faggot, give the tribunal the right to do exclusively non-religious activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let them organize conferences, travel abroad, or uncover plates. Thank you very much, Member. In fact, it would be a less harmful activity, but it would be very costly for taxpayers, because the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u340	Thank you very much, Member. Madam, you can't hear me any more. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u341	Thank you very much. I would like to stress in this discussion that no public institution in our country's history has been under such a fierce and unfair attack by the parliamentary and non-parliamentarians opposition. I would like to point out that such situations that happen every day, which happen in this Chamber - I remember this information by the President of Przyłębska, when you were Marshal Dolnyak turned off the microphone - was not in history. Mrs. Żukowska of the Left, who appeared here just a moment ago, about the next death of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, said that this is the curse of the double. Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz says that the tribunal is a fake, there is no tribunal, that there is only a building and a plaque at the entrance. About the report, sir. Is there a climate in this atmosphere to discuss the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, all those pro-social judgments, pro-family judgments or those serving our country? There's no climate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what did you tell the spokesperson about the climate? Ladies and gentlemen! As long as you don't change your approach until there's a substantive discussion about the Court, not insulting, lying to the public, there's no discussion about the Constitutional Court. You can learn from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u342	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara... What's the president taking money for? Member, please. That's my question. But not from there, my fellow Member. You had your minute. What's the minute the president's arrogant? Excuse me, Mrs Dolniak, in a moment. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Court, the rule of law and the constitution - these words should constitute an inseparable and common segment of thinking about the state. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Tribunal has become a political tool, and today's absence of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal only shows how it treats Parliament and what it would like to do as head of the most important Polish court - because this is the way to say on the Constitutional Court. You do not have a President, so I will ask the rapporteur with a simple and concrete question, because those were the promises of law and justice: what do you do, Mr President, so that the tribunal can act and deliver judgments quickly and effectively, and not for years like this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u344	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u345	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To direct a body like the Constitutional Tribunal, you have to have the courage to face the opponents and answer the questions asked. This is the courage of the Ombudsman and the first President of the Supreme Court. You attack them endlessly and in any situation, but they come and answer questions. Unfortunately, I cannot ask the rapporteur a question, we know that very well, sir, because this concerns information from the Constitutional Court. I'm glad. Again, I ask: Why has there been a blocking of cases due to the electoral calendar, the manipulation of formations, the taking of documents from the judge's office in his absence, the settlement of cases in which there are judges concerned and the decision whether to make comments on a case that has affected and has not been resolved? Unfortunately, this question was in the vacuum (the bell) because today there is no President of the Constitutional Tribunal. In conclusion, I recommend you, Mr Mularczyk, take a look before commenting on the minutes of the sitting... I looked in, I looked in. ...and see how long the president took the floor. Unfortunately, you tend to reverse the situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u346	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Darius Evening, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to start by referring to what Mr Winnicki said. I reassure all of you and the High House: when the Left comes to power, and soon it will happen, surely the President or the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and all the institutions will not underestimate the Members and Members. To be honest, I am here for the first time, so these words by Mr Mularczyk, I understand, do not concern me because I was not going to insult anyone. I'd love to meet and ask you a question. I thought there'd be an opportunity. I therefore ask the rapporteur the question: Does the rapporteur know what the President of Przyłębska was doing during the committee meeting, what she is doing at the moment and why she is not here? It's saying that the rules allow me not to participate in this, and it doesn't convince me at all. Second question: Did you analyse why in 2015 (the bell) more than 400 cases were brought to the tribunal and in 2018 more than 100 cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Kukiz15, will speak last.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u349	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I will start by referring to Mr Mularczyk's words. Mr President, I understand that this may be an obstacle, it may upset that various emotions may be accompanied by this - it is about political comments from the opposition or opponents - but this cannot be seen as an excuse to stand before the High House and to present to Poles information about the activities of an important institution which they are directing. She's in a crisis, so all the more reason to do it, and not to dodge it on the pretext that the criticism of the opponents is like that, not different. Question to the rapporteur: What is the point of this efficiency of the Court's activities when it issued 63 decisions in 2015 and only 31 in 2018? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u350	Thank you. Most of them weren't questions, ladies and gentlemen. Does the rapporteur want to answer, if he has noticed, any questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u351	Dear Marshal! Thank you so much for this opportunity. Thank you very much for the discussion. Such a discussion is largely about. But it wasn't you, it was the president... One at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a problem with yesterday's choice... Not a problem. There was a discussion on the choice of the rapporteur, because you have alleged that sometimes these reports look completely different than they should look. I hope that today's report met your expectations and contained what should be in the report. So at least I am happy about this and I will explain once again, first of all, to Mr Pasyk. Well, Mr, I have spoken clearly of some of the Members, I have not spoken of you, so do not be offended. I specifically pointed out the author of this statement, which questioned the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. I address Mr Evening. I know you're not convinced by the laws, which is why I called them back and I'll call them back. I am not defending Mrs Julia Przyłębska, I also referred to your argument that you regret that she is not here. I get it. I can understand the regret. On the other hand, I cannot understand cheating and misleading Poles with statements that say that this is how laws have been broken. They didn't. I welcome this statement by the vice-president, who confirmed... But there's no law against coming to the Sejm. But I wasn't talking about a ban. Mr President, we are talking about legislation, I am making it clear. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal has no legal obligation to appear before the Parliament. There isn't. The obligation is to submit information. The information was submitted. Then the Sejm Committee pursuant to Article. 124 of the Rules of Procedure shall be read with the information submitted and delivered. Written information shall be provided. How do you think you're delivering oral information? It's technically impossible. So what I was saying today, and what I was saying yesterday, that's the point. to highlight the rules of law. There is no legal obligation to appear. I understand that you wanted to talk to Julia Przyłębska, the president, to ask her a question. Ask them. I don't know what Mrs. Julia Przyłębska was doing yesterday and what she's doing today. Please do not require this from the rapporteur. I did my part. I presented what was happening in the committee and also presented the legal provisions concerning the duties of the Constitutional Tribunal. I hope you understand these laws. Thank you very much. The rest is in the information on the question of the number of judgments given by the Constitutional Tribunal on the reasons for issuing fewer judgments. If you have actually read this multi-page information, it says what the reasons are. That is precisely what it is to present information in writing so that Members can study it carefully and get to know it. Everything is explained there, and I read it. Like you didn't read, your case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u352	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal on information shall not be put to a vote. I state that the Sejm took note of the information presented by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws (print No 208). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws contained in print No 208. The solutions contained in the draft law implement three directives: Council Directive 2017/952 of 29 May 2017, so-called. Directive ATAD2, Council Directive 2018/822 of 25 May 2018, so-called the MDR Directive and Council Directive 2018/1910 of 4 December 2018 and align the provisions of the VAT Act with the amendments resulting from Implementing Regulation 2018/1912 of 4 December 2018 with regard to certain exemptions related to intra-Community transactions, so-called. Quick fixes package. The provisions of the ATAD2 Directive aim to seal the corporate tax system. The ATAD stands for the Anti Tax Avoidance Directive, which is the anti-tax avoidance directive. This Directive is the implementation of OECD and G20 arrangements for the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, so-called. Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, in short BEPS. It is the second wave of the EU-coordinated process of changes to Member States' laws aimed at making them more resilient to international aggressive tax optimization. As part of the implementation of the ATAD 2 Directive, regulations are introduced into the Polish law aimed at combating discrepancies in the qualification of the so-called. hybrid structures. This applies to situations where different entities or expenditures are assessed differently: as subject or non-taxable, subject or not to deduction in different countries of the European Union. The ability of companies to use different ways of assessing phenomena by laws and bodies operating in different countries can, with the skillful application of the law by taxpayers, lead them to unwarranted benefits. It belongs to them, for example. Several deductions of the same payments, costs or losses from income generated in different countries. The entry into force of the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the public finance sector. It is estimated that a positive effect on this sector can be about PLN 887 million over the year. The Act also introduces amendments related to the second stage of the implementation of the MDR Directive. MDR shortcut means the Missionary Disclosure Rules, i.e. the obligation imposed by the European Union to provide the tax authorities of the Member States with information about the tax schemes carried out by registered companies in Poland. The implementation of the MDR Directive has been divided into two stages. The first ended on 1 January 2019 when the law implementing the obligation to report on national and international tax schemes entered into force in Poland. It resulted in an estimated increase in tax revenue of about PLN 762 million only in the first year of its operation and in the identification of a number of optimization structures analysed in operational work by the departments of the National Tax Administration and which could serve to take further sealing actions. The Act submitted today is the implementation of the second stage of the implementation of the MDR Directive, which is implemented by amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and in the Tax Order. The amendments to the Act on the Exchange of Information require the Head of the National Tax Administration to provide information on cross-border tax schemes to the tax authorities of other Member States and lay down its rules. Information shall be provided automatically within one month of the end of the quarter in which the authority has been informed of the relevant scheme. The first exchange will take place by 31 October 2020. Changes in the Tax Order provide for the imposition on entities obliged to inform about cross-border schemes of a retrospective reporting obligation of schemes implemented from 26 June 2018 to 31 March 2020. Reporting will be carried out in accordance with the standard of exchange of information on tax schemes established at European Union level in spring 2019. Finally, the Quick Fixes package is a package of amendments to the VAT Directive and the 282/2011 implementing regulation aimed at simplifying the rules for clearing transactions between the countries of the European Union. The proposed law introduces new regulations for the call-off stock warehouse procedure, modifies provisions for chain transactions and rules on the conditions necessary to apply the 0% rate for the supply of goods in intra-Community transactions. In addition, the draft law provides for the adaptation of the provisions of the VAT Act to the amendments resulting from Implementing Regulation 2018/1912. It amends the evidence required to apply the 0% rate in the intra-Community supply of goods and specify the details to be included in the records of the taxable person using the call-off stock warehouse procedure. This Regulation is already binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States and therefore does not require implementation in the national legal order. In addition, the draft law implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 28 February 2018 in Case C-307/16 Stanisław Pieńkowski. The consequence of the judgment is to facilitate the refund of VAT to travellers making purchases in the tax free system. It involves eliminating restrictions on the right to self-refund VAT to only those sellers who have achieved a turnover of more than 400 000 in the previous tax year. zł. The draft law provides for the entry into force of the amendments on 1 April 2020, which is linked to the need to transpose the ATAD 2, MDR and Quick Fixes directives into the national legal order as soon as possible. The estimated positive effect of the proposed changes on the public finance sector can be around PLN 1623 million over the year. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u354	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the Government's draft law amending the Act on Corporate Income Tax, the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services, the Act on Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws contained in Seym Print No 208. First of all, I would like to point out that during discussions on the tax system in Poland there should be a reflection on the effectiveness of the rule of law and justice not only in the context of the reduction of tax on natural and legal persons, but also concerning the sealing of the VAT gap. The Polish government can boast of the most impressive sealing of the VAT gap in Europe, as reflected in the European Commission's report. Today, on the other hand, we are looking at a proposal for changes aimed at implementing European Union law in the following areas: changes in income taxes, changes in the law on goods and services tax, changes in information on MDR tax schemes. In the first area of the legislative amendments in question, the purpose of the regulation is to implement the Directive of the Council of the European Union of 29 May 2017 amending Directive 2016/1164 as regards hybrid mismatches for third countries. Secondly, the project aims at improving, harmonising and sealing the current VAT system, introducing simplification and harmonising the rules for using call-off stock storage in cross-border trade. The procedure for the consignment warehouse consists in the movement of goods by the trader to warehouses situated in the territory of another Member State of the European Union other than the territory of the country of dispatch or transport. The third area of the amendment concerns completion by amending the provisions of the law from dn. 9 March 2017 on the exchange of tax information with other countries in the transposition of the Directive of the Council of the European Union of 25 May 2018 amending the Directive of the Council of the European Union of 2011 as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the fields of taxation in respect of notified cross-border arrangements. The proposed law, as part of the measures to seal the income tax system, is intended to counter hybrid mismatches which are used by multinational corporations to apply aggressive tax optimization. The aim of the new rules is to increase the resilience of the Polish market and thus the internal market of the European Union to hybrid mismatches. As regards the changes to the Goods and Services Tax Act, the expected effect of new solutions is to simplify, modernise and harmonise and in some areas to seal the VAT rules applicable to cross-border transactions. In the latter area, i.e. information on MDR tax schemes, the proposed law complements the implementation of the Directive by requiring the Head of National Tax Administration to provide information on cross-border tax schemes to the Member States of the European Union and to a limited extent to the European Commission, and introduces clarification of the provisions of the MDR Tax Order. It should be stressed that the project assumes the revenue of the public finance sector, mainly due to the further sealing of the tax system. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. I hope that the proposed changes will be supported by all the political environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u356	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club in relation to the bill - I will not quote the whole title for saving time. However, I must refer to this part of the speech by my previous speaker, who spoke about the great success of sealing the tax system. I think it is worth to see that this increase in income, which we have in terms of income taxes, but also VAT, maybe mainly VAT, is mainly due to economic growth and procyclical effects, and what you are doing here is, in fact, a trick that allows you to increase your expenditure, assuming that we are dealing here with actions that allow you to actually increase expenditure according to the expenditure rule, i.e. discretionary actions. What I'm trying to say is that for the last four years, I've kept saying that you're writing law on your knees, that you're not consulting him with environments that are interested in tax changes. We have also made a number of comments as oppositions, but you have not listened to them, although today also in this law and in the next one that we will discuss, you admit to some extent. However, there is a lack of any vision of the overall tax system. What you have done in recent years, i.e. general tax law, 6 years of work of the General Tax Law Codification Commission thrown into the basket, you disparage when it comes to material tax law, dismantle tax control - all this can unfortunately get back at us, the consequences can be dramatic during the slowing period. Meanwhile, for the Sejm, as for the Titanic, various types of tax change projects are affected, but, as I said earlier, there is no systematics, and it cannot be done if you do not answer the question of how this tax system in Poland should look. You're chasing the heels, you're chasing the underdog, you're chasing the change. This is also the case in this project, and it is clear. You're covering yourselves with sealing, you're covering yourself with European directives. It's a pretty extensive project, but I'm going to show you one thing, which is the MDR, here you can see it on the palm of your hand, and the changes in the information about tax schemes, p. 15 I would like to remind you that during the legislative work in 2018 on the October 2018 Act, we indicated that the MDR rules are poorly prepared, imprecise, non-constitutional and this will translate into problems in their application. After a year of operation, it also appeared that the Ministry of Finance itself was not prepared to implement the Directive in this respect. In your explanatory memorandum, you write that the proposed law complements the implementation of the MDR Directive by requiring the Head of National Tax Administration to provide information on cross-border tax schemes to the Member States of the European Union and to a limited extent to the European Commission. I will point out that we talked about this in 2018 during the procession. The National Chamber of Tax Advisors indicated that reporting of cross-border schemes differs, with regard to the provisions of the Directive and the provisions of the Tax Order. The provisions of the Tax Order on cross-border schemes were not adapted to the European Union Directive, and consequently, by a manifest error of the Ministry of Finance, lack of records or incorrect records in the Tax Office, all reported cross-border schemes in 2019 may be cancelled and taxpayers and tax advisers will be required to re-submit them. The question is, will anyone carry... What about responsibility? It is also worth noting that the advisers referred the matter to the Constitutional Court. In order to prove that the Ministry is not capable of registering schematics, I can quote (the bell) that you are assisting outside workers. You're bringing in people from the tax administration... Finish your work, sir. Go ahead and finish it. ...also from my town, Olsztyn. And in the ministry, it's only been working since the beginning of the year. The question is, is there an economist in the Ministry of Finance with a vision of the state... Thank you, sir. ...seeing not only the immediate benefits, but also the long-term effects of actions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u358	Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 08 hours 21 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club regarding the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws. The aim of this project is to implement three EU directives. I'm gonna say it again because I think it's important. This is Council of the European Union Directive 2017/952, so-called. ATAD 2 on anti-tax avoidance by international corporations. The draft law prevents hybrid mismatches concerning third countries which are used for the purpose of so-called. aggressive tax optimization. The second Directive is the 2018 2018/1910 Directive with regard to the harmonisation and simplification of certain provisions in the value added tax system, so-called. VAT on taxation of trade between Member States of the European Union. The third Directive is the No 2018/822 for mandatory and automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation in respect of notified cross-border arrangements. The Left supports and will support legal solutions aimed at preventing international companies from tax evasion. It is good that the European Union is taking action in this area, and it is good that Poland adapts its right to EU law. Unfortunately, there is a spoon in it, and it is proposed the date of entry into force of the law. This deadline is 1 April 2020. Such an early period may conflict with the time limits laid down in the Constitution for the authorities involved in the legislative process. Today is February 12th, the bill should now go to the relevant Parliamentary Committee for further work and possible amendments. After approval, the Senate has 30 days to accept, reject or submit amendments, and at the end the President of the Republic of Poland has 21 days to sign the Act in accordance with this legislative process. It doesn't take a lot of math to know that it just doesn't work out, and there's a big risk that the legislative process will not be over by the date indicated on 1 April, let alone the fact that corporations obviously have to implement it, so they also have to have time for this implementation. In addition, it should be pointed out that, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, and here I quote: determining the date of entry into force of the Act, excluding the time-limit guaranteed to the President of the Republic of Poland, constitutes a sufficient indication that the legislator failed to comply with the democratic rule of law in respect of the order to maintain the corresponding vacathio legis. A derogation from the prescribed constitutional terms is acceptable, but - which should be emphasized with all determination - only exceptionally when a state of higher state necessity is involved. The Court therefore concluded that the President cannot be brought before the facts. As the draft law has legislative shortcomings, the parliamentary club of the Left supports its referral to work in the relevant parliamentary committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u360	Thank you, Member. Mr Czesław Siekierski, PSL - Kukiz15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill concerns changes in a number of laws, among others. on corporate income tax, on goods and services tax, on the exchange of tax information and on certain other laws. The aim of this project is to implement European Union law, hence its adaptation and implementation. The draft submitted also amends those laws which I mentioned, i.e. the CIT, the Tax Order, the Tax Code or the National Administration. The proposed solutions introduce rules in various areas, the provisions sealing the corporate tax system related to the implementation of the Council Directive, commonly called the ATAD Directive2. The amendments introduced in this Directive aim to counter tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. The European Union has adopted some of the solutions proposed by the OECD as well as by the G20. It's about taxation and profit transfer. The provisions also provide for amendments to the VAT Act, which in turn introduce the provisions of the EU Council Directive 2018/1910 of December 2018 into the Polish legal order. This is mainly about taxation of trade between Member States. Changes in the VAT Act regarding its payments relate to very technical problems, the entry of goods, the exit of the warehouse, at which point VAT should be paid. Finally, thirdly, mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of cross-border taxation has been introduced. Changes in tax information relate mainly to this implementation of the MDR Directive. It is important that the changes made contain a glossary of the terms used in the legislation, which makes these rules more understandable and more transparent. There are so many complex rules and solutions and they are so complex that their substantive assessment requires an expert approach or even an in-depth study, discussions with experts, which is why I am concerned about the implementation of these laws by small and medium-sized enterprises despite the fact that - according to the documents presented by the Ministry of Finance - a number of consultations have been conducted. I believe that the law, which is connected with the adaptation of Polish law to EU law, requires better and more timely preparation, because we are already with a number of solutions delayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u362	Thank you, sir. One Member joined the questions. I'm closing the list. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, Poland has agreed to carry out transport services consisting in transporting people in the taxi system through ordering and clearing services by means of apps on the phone, smartphone or other internet technology data transfer. The application is often owned by a company, a foreign corporation established abroad. This is where the order goes and is carried out by the carrier in Poland. The payment is transferred when ordering services and all its value travels to an entity abroad. The service provider shall return to the service provider in the form of an application arrangement between the parties. What happens to the difference in the value that remains with the foreign application owner? Is it registered and taxed? Does Poland have any advantages for this? Isn't that the usual way of bringing out a part of the value (the bell) for the service of transporting persons abroad without control and taxation? Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u364	The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Jan Sarnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u365	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to clarify the issue of the sealing effect on the one hand of the tax on goods and services, on the other hand of income taxes. The effectiveness of the Ministry of Finance's activities in this area is demonstrated by both the increasing revenue from these taxes and information and reports prepared either at the Ministry of Finance or for the purposes of the European Union. A very good source of information on the reduction of the tax gap, in particular the VAT gap, is the CASE reports, the Centre for Social and Economic Analysis, which prepares research for the European Commission. According to their data, in 2013 the VAT-owska gap was 27% in Poland. , so as to gradually decrease in 2017 to 13.7% and according to a report published in September 2019 to 9.5% in 2018. While research on the CIT gap is still being carried out in the Ministry of Finance, research according to the Ministry of Finance's internal reports on the efficiency of the sealing tools implemented contains information that as much as 60% of the increase in CIT revenues in recent years is a sealing effect. Both the figures and the methodology used to achieve these results are presented on the website of the Ministry of Finance and are open to the State. He also asked about the overall vision of creating a tax system in Poland. This kind of vision exists as much as possible. Where? The Ministry of Finance has been conducting a number of activities for many years, primarily legislative, but also in the National Tax Administration, aimed at reducing aggressive tax optimization, fighting tax havens, supporting innovation. In recent years we have made available R &amp; D relief, IP Box relief, provisions for extending the application of economic zone regulations. Now the central issue in the Ministry of Finance is the response to the needs of small and medium-sized business, increasing the possibility of applying lump sum from registered revenues, Estonian CIT. But that's not the point. This has nothing to do with my question, I'm sorry. Of course. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't ask questions from the jury. Okay? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Continuing as you know very well, the Tax Order did not go to the Sejm due to the discounting of parliamentary work after one parliamentary term at the beginning of the second. The Ministry of Finance's commitment is still to implement this project and will be implemented in the next years of its current term of office. About the MDR theme, the Disclaimer Rules. Indeed, the changes to these provisions are due to the fact that the draft Mandate Disclosure itself has undergone some changes at European Union level. The reporting scheme was modified, its final version made available in the European Union in the first half of 2019, i.e. after the same reporting obligation also cross-border schemes were implemented in Poland. Accelerating the implementation of the directive and implementing this sealing tool in Poland were dictated by a very strong need to combat aggressive tax optimization and had good, effective effects. It is enough to mention that year-to-year income tax revenues from individuals increased by 10%, it is 11.2 billion PLN, and from CIT by 15% , by PLN 6.6 billion. I'm gonna go back to the other questions. ATAD 2. The date of entry into force of the regulation is indeed 1 April this year. However, the regulation does not introduce significant additional obligations for taxpayers. What's more, it's no surprise to them. The various elements of the project currently under investigation were addressed to the consultation first in July, later in October last year. The steps we are now taking are the implementation of the provisions of the EU directives, whose interpretation has also been signalled at many stages. We also hope that, given the timetable for parliamentary work, the High House will also help us implement these solutions and quickly conclude the legislative process. So that the rules can enter into force on the announced date of 1 April. On the transport application - the question asked by the last of you - we will provide an appropriate written reply. You're welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u366	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, I propose that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and certain other laws, contained in print No 208, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, on the basis of Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I set a deadline for the committee to submit its report by 24 March 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and some other laws (print No 207). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws contained in print No 207. The proposed changes will benefit taxpayers from fulfilling their tax obligations. They also eliminate the doubts that have arisen in the practical application of tax rules and adapt existing regulations to changing realities. The project introduces changes in the field of income tax, goods and services tax and changes in the Tax Order. The changes in income tax implemented by the Law consist in adapting the tax provisions as of 1 January 2021 to the current Polish Classification of Products and Services of 2015. I would like to stress that these changes are not substantive in nature, they do not change the rules on income tax. Their aim is only to assign new symbols and names of PKWiU groups in the income tax legislation. As it appears from the Regulation of the Council of Ministers introducing the PKWiU 2015 that the PKWiU 2008 is applicable for income tax purposes by the end of 2020, these changes will enter into force on 1 January 2021. In addition, we propose changes that will reduce the number of annual tax calculations made by pension authorities, e.g. ZUS. The pension authorities will not draw up an annual tax calculation, that is, PIT-40A, when this calculation results in an overpayment. The excess tax usually arises when the taxpayer becomes a pensioner or pensioner during the tax year. So it makes revenue in a tax year from more than one source, e.g. from the employment relationship and from retirement. This means that he is obliged to accumulate this income in his tax return. In that case, the annual calculation of the tax by the pension authority is not a final settlement. Despite such settlement by the pension authority, the taxable person still submits an annual statement. This change is therefore not aggravating the situation of these taxpayers, in particular that they will now be able to benefit from your e-PIT service in which their annual statement will be generated. Undoubtedly, a positive change from the taxpayer's point of view is to ensure the effectiveness of his claim to the pension authority not to reduce by 1/12 the amount of tax reduction for the following years. It shall be valid indefinitely from the date of its submission until its withdrawal. Such an application shall be submitted by the taxable person in order to avoid aid, e.g. where, in addition to the pension, it also receives other income and is therefore obliged to settle the tax on its own account in an annual statement. In such a case, the amount reducing the pension tax shall be deducted from both the income from the pension and other income, resulting in an annual payment of the tax. The proposal prevents this from happening. At present, such an application is valid only until the end of the year in which it was submitted. This means that the taxpayer must submit a new application for the following year. The bill eliminates this inconvenience for the taxpayer. Another example of the proposed positive changes is the changes to sanctions related to the obligation to make payments resulting from transactions between traders with a value of more than 15 000. zł per bills not included in the VAT list, so-called. A white leaf. The catalogue of cases in which the taxable person will not have to increase revenue or reduce the cost of obtaining, even though he has made payments to accounts not included in the VAT list, is extended. The taxable person shall not suffer adverse consequences if the payment of the claim has been made using a split payment mechanism, has been made into the bank's own accounts or if it is due to an invoice documenting the operation of intra-Community acquisitions of goods, imports of goods, imports of services or supplies of goods cleared by the purchaser. The proposed amendments give taxpayers the assurance that, under the new rules, they can pay for such invoices without the risk of having negative consequences on income tax. The same changes are also proposed in the Act - Tax Order with regard to provisions concerning the release from joint and several liability in the case of VAT. In addition, amendments are proposed concerning the notification by taxpayers to the head of the tax office of payment for a non-list account. This is done in order to relieve itself of tax consequences in the case of CIT, PIT and joint and several liability in the case of VAT. The change is due to difficulties which the purchaser may have with the establishment of the competent head of the tax office for the seller. In addition, the draft clarifies that the notification is submitted once for a specific account, despite making a number of payments to that account. It is also a provision favourable to the taxpayer, which will make it easier for him to carry on his business. Another amendment designed in the Act is due to the need to implement the European Commission's recommendation. The Commission has accused Poland of the absence of a clause which would exclude a taxpayer from the possibility to deduct hypothetical own financing costs when it wishes to achieve this as a result of economically unjustified activities. Poland has declared this amendment to be implemented by this Act. We also propose that the taxpayer should be able to choose the income from the interest discount on the issue of bonds issued by a special purpose vehicle whose obligations have been taken over by the taxable person with a flat-rate income tax of 3 per cent. This regulation will allow for the use of the above mentioned regulation. entities with simple and favourable taxation of interest income and discount. Currently, the possibility of taxing interest and discounting a flat-rate tax of 3% applies only to the issuance of loans made by Polish tax residents. In the case of goods and services tax, the project introduces the possibility of sending tax receipts in electronic form to the customer with his consent and in an agreed manner. Paragons can be issued in electronic form as so-called. e-paragons from registering registers of the latest type, i.e. so-called. online cash register. This will facilitate and simplify both for taxpayers keeping records using cash registers and for consumers. The E-Paragon will be able to be used more easily as a durable medium, e.g. in the case of a claim for goods or services. This is an action for the development of digital Poland. In the Tax Order, we propose changes that will allow tax authorities to benefit from the provision of letters by means of a hybrid service. It consists in the conversion by the operator of the designated electronic document into a letter delivery and delivery to the addressee of the receipt, i.e. in a traditional manner. This, in turn, will require that, in specific cases, the postal operator and his chosen staff be allowed to inspect the consignments containing information relevant from a tax point of view, including those covered by tax confidentiality. We also propose to clarify the rules on the so-called. microaccounts. It is particularly justified to authorise the Minister responsible for public finances to indicate the type of taxes, levies and non-tax fiscal charges that can be cleared by means of a micro-account. Given the technical and organisational circumstances, the Minister will determine and then update the list of taxes that can be regulated through the micro-account. The proposal also provides for changes outside the tax area. They abolish from 1 October 2019 the obligation to pay contributions to the Labour Fund and the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, currently the Solidarity Fund, for a doctoral scholarship received by doctoral students. It is not justified to collect contributions to the Labour Fund in connection with the receipt by doctoral students of a scholarship. In connection with doctoral education between a PhD student and a PhD student, there is no employment relationship within the meaning of the Labour Code. The PhD student is not an employee within the meaning of the Social Security Act. As a result, the doctoral student will be obliged to apply for reimbursement of the contributions paid to the Labour Fund and the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities - the Solidarity Fund. The other changes are of a sequencing nature. Their aim is to clarify the existing rules, which will prevent potential disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities. An example of such changes is a clear indication that, within the meaning of the provisions of the Tax Order, a report is also considered to be a declaration and to guarantee the effectiveness of the complex correction of the statement through your e-PIT services. The proposed changes do not affect the revenue of the public finance sector or their impact will be negligible. The amendments are expected to enter into force on 1 April 2020, with few exceptions, for example, in the case of the United Kingdom. adaptation amendments to the PKWiU which will enter into force on 1 January 2021 In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u368	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u369	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club, I would like to present my position on this project. Ladies and gentlemen! The objectives of this statutory amendment can be defined in five key points. In the first point, this is the adjustment of the income tax legislation as from 1 January 2021 to the current Polish Classification of Products and Services. It should be noted that the 2008 qualification has been in force since 29 October 2008. At the end of this year it expires, and therefore from 1 January next year we need to introduce a classification already from 2015. This is a provision for precisely adapting to the new classification of products and services. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is to limit the number of annual calculations of PIT-40A, drawn up by the pension authorities, by eliminating the obligation to draw up the annual calculation of PIT-40A for certain taxpayers. It is also about introducing a change in the catalogue of negative indications. The presence of even one of these conditions will make it possible to display PIT-11A instead of PIT-40A. Of course, we should mention that this is a convenient change for the Social Services Department, he pointed out that these changes would be very beneficial to him. Third point: comprehensive regulation of the taxpayer's application to the pension authority not to reduce the tax reduction by 1/12. It's about this motion and sort of sanctioning him, his strength, for the years to come. At the moment, the proposal is valid. only until the end of the year in which it was deposited. On the other hand, after this change, this proposal will be valid until it is withdrawn. This withdrawal will have effect at the end of the month in which the withdrawal will be lodged or at the latest in the following month. The fourth point, the most important point, is the introduction, as the Minister said, of a special clause against tax avoidance regarding the inclusion of the costs of obtaining hypothetical interest income. Here, as we have heard, is a matter of European Union legislation. This is a certain adjustment of our regulations. In addition, High Izbo, fifth point: amend the existing rules in a certain way. There were a number of them listed here. I'm just going to say maybe the three most interesting ones from my point of view. The aim is to clarify the rules on preferential taxation of income from qualified intellectual property rights, to clarify the rules on individual tax accounts, or for example. introducing the possibility of sending a fiscal receipt in electronic form to the client with his consent and after agreement with him as to how it is to be done. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the club also took note of the report after consultation. This project was consulted with 15 external entities and evaluated by five entities: the President of the Central Statistical Office, the President of the National Bank of Poland, the President of the Supreme Court, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to recommend the adoption of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u370	Thank you very much. And now you will speak with Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The club's position on print No 207. But first of all, I would like to recommend today's publication of a conversation with Sławomir Dudek, former director of the Macroeconomic Policy Department, on the development of the VAT gap and the successes in this matter. It's worth, I think, reading this article. As for this printing, about this bill, I'm going to repeat what I said literally just a moment ago. This is yet another proof that you are chasing the heels, that the underdogs are chasing the underdogs, and that it is actually a smearing of thick threads of tax law, still under the seal sign, still under the cloak of adapting to European Union directives. Here, in particular, in the last part, part C - complementary and precise changes to the existing rules - a lot of flowers can be found and in a moment I will show you a few. However, I will start with this part, which is not really emotional, but four years it took to adapt the tax legislation to the changes that have entered into force since 1 January 2016, because I am talking about a change in the classification of PKWiU. I can say that entrepreneurs moving in a thicket of regulations must themselves interpret different regulations so far between PKWiU and tax law. Question: "Did it really take four years to agree with the CSO on these issues?" But I'm going back to what I said, part C, because this is also, in my opinion, proof that you are fixing the mistakes that really could have been avoided under due diligence when it comes to the legislative process. For example, point 9 of Part C, p. 6 explanatory memorandum refers to the adaptation of Article. 294 § 1 point 4 of the Tax Order to the provisions of the Law on Government Administrations by replacing the reimbursement of the staff of the Ministry of Finance by the reimbursement of the staff of the office serving the minister responsible for public finance. That's legislative slop, that's all. There is also a lack of control over the legislative process in the Ministry of Finance, in my opinion. In point 10, p. 6 of the statement of reasons, similarly: amendments to the VAT Act to remove an obvious error in the name of the body in Article. 42i VAT Act. In point 11 of the statement of reasons... Incidentally, I raised this problem during the revision of the PIT Act. I pointed out to lecturers in high school or at additional courses who do not have formal education and conduct vocational courses or prepare for any exams. Many of the changes that we have here - as the Minister has just said - are provisions that change, which clarify the provisions that have just been adopted. This is another proof of this sloppyness. This concerns point 2 - clarification of the provisions on preferential taxation. This is also point 3, where again we have a clarification of the PIT Act, an article laying down the rules for fixing advances in the case of payment congestion. Point 7 - Clarification of the rules on individual accounts, amendment of Article. 61b Tax Order. Point 6 - Extension of the definition of declaration. All these are issues that, with correct legislation, could simply be done right away - not multiply the change to change. How do taxpayers move in this patch of change? Eventually, take it to heart. That's what I'm calling for here. That's not the only point. In fact, I've only given examples of this sloppyness. It's multiplying in an amazing way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Left Club a position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Tax Act. The solutions proposed in the draft can be divided into the following groups of provisions. Firstly, these are provisions aimed at adapting the income tax rules to the new Polish Classification of Products and Services of 2015. The second group consists of provisions limiting the number of annual tax calculations, so-called. PIT-40A, drawn up by the pension authorities for taxable persons whose calculation of the pension body results from an excess tax payment, and the provisions comprehensively governing the taxpayer's application to the pension body of 1/12 of the tax reduction amount. The amendment extends the effectiveness of the application submitted by the taxpayer for the following years until its withdrawal and indicates that the pension authority is required to take account of the withdrawal lodged during the month of submission by the taxpayer or at the latest in the following month. The third group consists of other amendments supplementing and clarifying the existing rules. As of 1 January 2016, the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 4 September 2015 on the Polish Classification of Products and Services, PKWiU, which introduced the new PKWiU entered into force. In view of the above, it is necessary to adapt the income tax rules as from 1 January 2021 to the new 2015 PKWiU. As a result of the omission of this amendment after 31 December 2020, there would be no grounds for recourse to the new classification in the income tax legislation. The draft law does not introduce substantive changes. The aim of the project is to ensure that the entry into force of the new rules does not in any way affect the change in the legal status of taxable persons. The aim of the project is only to assign new symbols and names of the groups of PKWiU, without a substantive change of tax regulations. According to the Lewis Club, the purpose of the other amendments is, firstly, to clarify the provisions on the preferred taxation of income from classified intellectual property rights, secondly, to clarify the provision laying down rules for advance fixing in the case of payment congestion, to introduce a special anti-tax clause, to clarify the rules on individual tax accounts and to allow tax authorities to provide letters with a hybrid service by converting the designated electronic document into a letter mail by the operator. The amendment would concern Article. 140b Tax Order. The Left supports the referral of the project to work in the relevant committee. During the committee work, however, we will pay particular attention to, among others. on vacathio legis. The date of entry into force of the proposed law was fixed on 1 April. This means that it is likely that the Act will not be published in the Official Journal at all and that it will not enter into force at all. This is one of the elements that the Left will look at during the examination of the drafts of this law by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u374	Thank you. Mr Czesław Siekierski, club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law concerns changes in a number of tax laws. It is a law on personal income tax, i.e. PIT, corporate tax - CIT, flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, i.e. a flat-rate tax law, as well as a number of other laws, such as the Tax Order or the VAT Act. The purpose of the proposed amendments is, first, to adapt the tax rules to the new Polish classification of products and services, which was in 2015, second, to reduce the number of annual tax deductions of PITs, which should facilitate the work of taxpayers, thirdly, to supplement and refine a number of rules. The explanatory memorandum states that the proposed changes will require more care from the taxpayer, which is related to the length of time it will have to devote but will also contribute to simplifying the entire tax system. So, will the taxpayer feel this as a way of making things easier? Of course, I will mention what I also said in the case of the previous law: these changes are quite complex, so it is good that there was a broad consultation. This will probably allow for better preparation of taxpayers. There are also a number of delays that result from some government negligence. The Minister said today that these changes would make it easier for taxpayers to fulfil their obligations to pay taxes, as I pointed out. I think that there is also a general reflection that the regulation of tax rules across the Union will have a positive impact on the functioning of the single market, which is the area that has the greatest effect on the integration of Member States within the European Union. It is important that this codification is carried out in a very modern way, using electronic techniques. The issue of whether this law can be introduced in part from 1 April to 1 January 2021 raises concern. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u376	Thank you very much. Two Members have asked questions. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition Club. Of course, I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about vacathio legis in this bill. I listened closely to the previous project: you defended the deadline for the entry into force of the Act on 1 April, and your Marshal of the Sejm set a deadline for the preparation of the report by the Public Finance Commission on 24 March. We already know that this is a failure to meet that deadline that you just defended so much that it's impossible. And so it will be, I think, with this project, because there is a long gap between one sitting and the other. That's first of all. And secondly, ladies and gentlemen, within one hour there are two draft laws which amend several laws. I ask: When will we start working on simplifying the tax system? How will a non-lawyer find out about these changes (the bell) when we are constantly correcting our mistakes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask for a written reply to the question which I will ask, which concerns the regulation of the rules for which the Left Member recommended the position of the Left Club on this matter. I would like you to reply when the introduction of a special anti-tax avoidance clause will begin? Can these provisions be implemented in 2020 and when could a procedure be launched to enable tax authorities to deliver letters by means of a hybrid service to convert a designated electronic document by the operator? These two elements could greatly facilitate all the changes we are discussing, and therefore I ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u380	Thank you very much. One question, I guess, requires an answer. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome. The answer to the second, I understand, will be in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for your comments and give you some explanations. With regard to changes related to the PKWiU, the change is technical in nature, it is not of a key nature, it does not concern the fight against tax crime, the fight against tax avoidance, the transfer of money to tax havens, it is not a service that would respond to market needs related to the challenges of the economy 4.0, as for example. The IP Box or R &amp; D relief does not introduce new technological administration services for taxpayers either. Therefore, the answer to why it is only implemented at this stage. Definite priority in the work of the Ministry of Finance was given to projects of a special nature facilitating the conduct of business activities, tax settlements to persons employed, your e-PIT service, the microaccount or the e-Paragon currently being processed. Therefore, in replying to the question from the Member here, I also wanted to address the marshal, bearing in mind that parliamentary work is still ongoing. I would very much like to ask you to speed up the process on this project so that it can enter into force on 1 April. with adequate vacathio legis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u382	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws, contained in print No 207, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement, other than those on the list? No one's checking in. In this situation, I consider the list of Members made to the statements to be closed. The first statement will be made by Mrs Paulina Matysiak from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u383	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I must speak today about these unfortunate family rights cards and LGBT-free zones. In recent times Polish local governments began to vote that they were LGBT-free zones. Fortunately, it is not a universal law, but other local governments decide to adopt such resolutions. In one form or another they already cover almost the entire south-eastern Poland and this zone is expanding. Currently, almost 1/3 Poles and Poles already live there, more than 10 million of us. In January this year, the Sejmik of the Łódź Voivodeship, my voivodship, voted in turn the Charter of Family Rights. It's the same resolution wrapped up for the unknown in a less hateful name. I personally protested at this meeting of the Seym, appealing for rejection. Despite my strong protest, the Sejmik of the Łódź Voivodeship accepted the Charter of Family Rights. You're probably wondering what's wrong with her. The essence of her evil is not the words she uses, but the content she wants to fill with local law. The rights of families advocated by her are based on the fact that the Polish state is to recognize that there are no gays, lesbians or families other than patterns from the cover of the Catholic press. It's humiliating people in the 21st century in the centre of Europe. Scandal and absurd. These resolutions are not only a mockery of the law, and therefore, of the whole state, but also a manifestation of something much worse. Saturating law with radical ideology, writing laws under the dictation of religious fanatics and binding secular law to religious dogmas is a civilized regression. Ladies and gentlemen, technically this card is nonsense. Polish families are threatened by a series of droughts, the shrinking of state institutions in the province, and the collapse of public services to Polish families or public transport, which excludes and marginalizes millions of people in our country. But you don't have an idea to deal with these problems, and that's what you can't find money in the budget, and that's not what you're focusing your strength and resources on. Instead of facing real threats, you're creating an enemy figure, pointing your finger at a gay, lesbian, young boy humiliated in his school, pointing at two men holding hands and saying, "This is your enemy." And behind your finger for an order from pulpit and television sets, there's a mean scumbag all over Poland. Someone ridiculed you in the international arena - LGBT wine. You don't know how to do anything so you don't fall over your own legs - LGBT wine. You do not have the courage to condemn pedophilia loudly and clearly in the Catholic Church - LGBT wine. Electricity prices are rising - LGBT wines. But LGBT is not an ideology, it's people of blood and bone, with dreams, fears, with a desire for love, acceptance and a sense of security that we all share, because we're all human. And when you say you're anti-LGBT today, you're actually saying you're anti-human. What you're doing is the first step towards dehumanizing millions of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens is when through your propaganda tubes you are pouring sewers day and night to stop seeing ordinary people in LGBT, and you can see ideology, because ideology can kick, you can spit, with ideology you can fight, you can throw stone as ideology goes with the flag, you can catch such ideology and kick like a dog or put your head in the toilet and flush water. Because it's ideology, not human, because it was on TV, because it was in the paper, because it was in the sermon. This is the first stop to dehumanize. And where, but here in Poland, we know exactly what the last station on this road looks like. You're making hate for non-heteronormative people, just like you're making aversion to refugees. For your own benefit, you're playing a very dangerous game. That's what you do. I remind you that last year there was a pogrom test during the equality parade in Bialystok. Two weeks ago, Onet published a report on a transsexual Victor who committed suicide because he was rusty at school. And this report shook half of Poland, or at least half that has a conscience. Your understanding of the world ends there, but this is not the end of the world and this is not the end of Poland. And no one expects that the Polish Right will be an avant-garde of progress, but somewhere deep I believe that it is in you - maybe suppressed and deeply disguised - but there is still a pinch of responsibility, humanity and honor, and that there is still some sense that you will stop a spiral of hatred, bloodshed that is already taking place. Because after every hateful word you say, there is human harm, pain, suffering, and sometimes suicide. You can look away. You can cover your embarrassment with laughter and more insults, but you can't get away with it. Look at your hands. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's embarrassing. It's a massacre.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u384	Oh, my gosh. Mr Eugeniusz Czykwin, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! One of the basic standards, the foundation in the functioning of a democratic rule of law, is religious freedom guaranteeing freedom to confess a chosen religion or not to confess any religion, excluding both privileged and persecution or discrimination for religious reasons. This principle follows the right of churches and religious unions to carry out their missions freely. Equally important is equality in respect of the law of all legally active churches in a given country. Unfortunately, these principles, including in European countries, are being violated. This has been the case recently in Montenegro, a country adopted in 2017 for NATO and having the status of a candidate for the European Union. On the night of 27 December 2019 the Montenegrin Parliament adopted the Law on the Freedom of Religious Affairs and the Statute of the Religious Communities by voting with the majority of the Montenegrin Democratic Party. There were no votes against or abstentions in the vote because those who tried to prevent the vote from being held by Members of the opposition were arrested. The next day the President of Montenegro Milo Djukanović, despite a wave of protests, signed the bill. According to the law, the Montenegrin state will own all the sacral objects built before 1918, to which the canonical Orthodox Church, which is an autonomous part of the Serbian Patriarchate, has no documented property rights. This means that almost all, including the medieval temples, monasteries, sanctuaries, and icons, relics of saints, gathered for centuries with utensils, have been requisitioned by the state. The Act does not provide whether and on what principles Orthodox communities will be able to use temples and monasteries that have existed for centuries. A similar act was done against all confessions after the October revolution by the Bolsheviks in the area of the former Soviet Union and in other communist regimes of countries, e.g. Albania. To understand It is worth thinking about the great threat to the Orthodox Church, what it would mean to take over the cathedral of the Catholic Church in Gniezno, Cracow, Warsaw or Jasna Góra Shrine in Poland. The adoption of the bill and its immediate signature by the President have triggered a huge second month of protests that have swept all over Montenegro. In peaceful prayer processes in the inhabited for about 600,000. The citizens of Montenegro have already participated in nearly half of the total population. On Sunday, February 9th, around 200,000 people came to the streets of Montenegro. persons. In our country, this would mean more than 10 million people participating in protests. The Act contains discriminatory Church of Laws: the Church is required to change its name in addition to giving up its centuries-old heritage, and a number of other restrictions have been introduced concerning only the Orthodox Church, to which more than 70% belong. citizens. At the same time, legislation was introduced to ensure the protection of other religious communities in the country, i.e. Roman Catholic Church and Islamic communities, by extending the value of earlier agreements signed between the government and these communities. Consequently, it protects their property rights, legal continuity and allows for the return of property. Despite many public appeals in previous years to sign similar agreements with the Orthodox Church, the government has never shown a desire to do so. Thus the largest religious community in the country became the only group exposed to discrimination under applicable law. In this situation, I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Prof. Jacek Czaputowicz, as well as the Polish MEPs, to take action, also at the level of the European Union, to withdraw the current rulers of Montenegro from discriminatory Orthodox Church activities. In any State, the Law on freedom of religion may not deprive religious communities of the right to property to their temples. Dialogue and compliance with international law are a means to resolve the problem without conflict. Participants in the protests of Montenegro chant the slogans: ne damo svetinje - we will not give the temples. A small number of Orthodox communities, and also, I am convinced, most Christians in Poland are with you. Ne damo svetinje i da known da smo uz vas, uz sve posztene lude u Crnoj Gori. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u386	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating the 2020 budget. As a Member from Pomerania, I would like to ask why the government in the budget for 2020 did not provide a zloty for the Tri-City metropolitan ring road, the renovation of an important bridge in Tczew or Kwidzyn bypass. Ladies and gentlemen! The City Council of Kwidzyn adopted a resolution on 16 December 2019 to include Kwidzyn's ring road in the government's programme of construction of 100 bypasses of small cities in Poland. This resolution was adopted unanimously over political divisions. This shows how important this investment is. People have been appealing for this for many years. I support these actions by the local government, which is why I tabled an amendment to the State budget for 2020 granting funds for this ring road, which would speed up work until the start of a possible 100 bypass programme, but the PiS MEPs did not support this amendment. Following the request of the Kwidzyn self-government, I sought to include Kwidzyn's ring road in the government's construction program of 100 bypasses of small cities in Poland. She's not in the project published a few days ago either. I expected him to be there, especially since during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure with the Minister, I received confirmation that she could be included in this catalogue that she could see no obstacles. I would like to point out that the provisions of the Pomorskie Voivodship's spatial planning plan until 2030, in the section on the development of the regional road network, underline the need to move transit traffic beyond the areas built by the construction of bypasses, among others. Kwidzyn bypass, along Route 55. An additional argument for this investment is the fact that a multi-branch concept for the construction of this ring road has already been developed. Together with GDDKiA 746 thousand were spent for this purpose. zł. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to include the venture in the government's programme of 100 bypasses of small cities or to support my amendment for money in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr... It's me. Excuse me, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns 44. The Piast Pole in Szklarska Poręba Jakuszyce. Already next week I invite you to Yakuszyc, where another one will begin, because it is already 44th Cross-country Ski Festival. This extraordinary international sports and recreation event starts on 22 February and will last up to 9 days. The Piast run will consist of nine gears at different distances, where about 6 thousand will take part. Skiers from all over the world. There will be races for professionals, but above all for amateurs, including beginners. Of course, there will be running for the youngest skiers, i.e. kindergarteners. The main competition is a 50 km run by a classic technique scheduled for February 29th. More than 1,600 players from nearly 30 countries are already on the launch list. The results at this distance are included in Worldloppet, a world league that brings together the world's largest mass ski runs. At this distance in Yakuszyce, the world champion and Olympic Champion Justyna Kowalczyk competed twice. Worldloppet also includes two other competitions within the Piast Pole, namely running for 30 km by any technique on 28 February and 25 km by classic - 1 March. The organizers, as in previous years, also prepared shorter-distance runs and two runs for children. The 6 km run is organized for beginners who want to learn about the extraordinary atmosphere of the great sports event and test their skiing skills. Thanks to the high-ranking start-up run, leading skiers will perform the race from the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Germany and the USA and, of course, Scandinavians. On this extraordinary occasion I would like to highlight the unique qualities of the Jakuszycka Pole for cross-country skiing. It is here, in Yakuszyce, that are the best conditions for cross-country skiing in Poland and even in the world. Climate conditions and terrain allow you to organize ski competitions at the highest level in the world. Ski trails are 14 trails with a total length of more than 100 km. All routes form loops and join together, giving you the opportunity to choose an individual route tailored to the opportunities and needs of skiers. Terrain causes considerable variation in the degree of difficulty, and the highest location of the area is 1003 m above sea level. The Piast Run Association, organizer of the event, is the only cross-country skiing centre in Poland, which has a worldwide approval of FIS competitive routes. I invite all Members and families to participate in 44. International Piast Pole in Yakuszyce. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u391	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Colleagues of the Covenant! Prime Minister Gowin! I stood here today to apologize to Prime Minister Gowin and his colleague from the Agreement for the confusion and the trouble I caused you with my indeterminate behavior - he goes or stays. In no way are you to blame for the sensitivity or volatility of my attitude, which allowed you to assume a change in party membership. I am a Member of the United Right - Law and Justice, whose coalition wings on one side spread Solidarna Polska, on the other hand - Agreement. Both coalition formations are priceless to us and it is worth noting, apart from the purely parliamentary perspective, that they are complementary to the force of the United Right in the field. Dialogue and cooperation between us are essential both for the exercise of power and for the effective support of President Andrzej Duda's re-election. It is no wonder, then, that I am intensively seeking cooperation with coalitioners on Lubuskie soil, where the Law and Justice lost one mandate, the Left strengthened, we were defeated by the Confederation. In view of the above, I invite you to cooperate and ask for it to be a friend from the United Right, especially the Agreement, which on Lubuskie land has its structures, and the forming structures of Solidarna Polska. I am doing this so that the outcome of the presidential campaign for President Duda's re-election is as good as possible. I highly appreciate the achievements of the resorts led by the agreement, by Prime Minister Gowin himself. After all, in the previous term we implemented profound changes in science and higher education under the motto: the constitution for science, which I accompanied, as well as Minister Emilewicz and the package for entrepreneurs, especially for small and medium-sized business. Or are you Minister Marcin Ociepa, who makes sure that the transfer of knowledge of know-how, high technology, is used in the army. Finally, Minister Iwona Michalek with her sensitivity to the excluded and pro-family policies. Maybe that's because I'm a member of the Law and Justice, and I'm seconds behind you and supporting your actions because it's in the interests of the United Right. I trust I can still be a kind partner for you. For imperfections I apologize and will not cease to seek an agreement with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u392	Thank you. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u393	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! February 7th this year the majority of the judges rejected the annual report on the work of the Olsztyn District Court, thus giving a negative assessment of the work to the President of the District Court Maciej Nawacki. In the following part, Judge Wojciech Krawczyk submitted a formal application on behalf of 31 applicants of the Olsztyn District Court. on the matter of Judge Juszczyszyn. And things have become unbelievable. After reading the draft resolution signed by 31 judges, the president of the regional court Maciej Nawacki ostentatiously kidnapped them, claiming that he has the right to do so because citizens are behind him. Such behaviour is a publicly expressed gesture of contempt for the judges with whom he works on a daily basis, Presidenting them. Mr Maciej Nawatki's behavior as judge and president of the regional court is outrageous and disqualifies him. This is not the first and only negative behaviour of President Nawatski. The President, a member of the neo-National Judicial Council, on the basis of a fax from the disciplinary court, suspended Judge Juszczyszyn in his ruling. Thus he became the face of the judges standing side by side with the ruling party, in the ranks of the army fighting for the deformity of the judiciary. I address the Minister of Justice of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Minister, they expect you to draw the consequences of your work against Maciej Nawatki. Mr. Nawatski's actions exhaust the signs of an art crime. 276 The Penal Code, which says: Who destroys, destroys or removes a document which is not exclusively entitled to dispose of, is subject to fines, punishes restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. As your superior, I hope you do not approve of the behaviour of the President of the Olsztyn regional court, Mr Maciej Nawatki. I expect answers to the following questions. When the Minister of Justice takes the appropriate steps, will he take disciplinary action against Mr Maciej Nawatki, President of the Olsztyn District Court? Will and when will a disciplinary spokesman be appointed, who will be interested in the matter of Mr Nawatski's act, tore up the draft resolutions of Olsztyn judges? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u394	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u395	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On 10 February we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Poland's marriage to the sea. This symbolic act was done on 10 February 1920 in Puck by Gen. Józef Haller, saying on this occasion the following words: On the mark of the marriage of the Baltic with the Republic, I throw one of the rings given to me by the Polish people in Gdańsk into the current of the Baltic. Today Poland has much more access to the sea than 100 years ago, when we received only part of the former Gdańsk Pomerania, in addition without Gdansk, which was declared a free city by the decision of the Entent powers - that is, the alliance of the three powers, the UK, France and Russia. This decision of the Western powers was caused by various factors, among others. their belief that it is necessary to avoid a situation in which many representatives of a more civilized nation, namely Germany, would be under the control of a civilized nation, or Poles. This was a severe blow for the young Polish country, because in the rest of the allocated Polish Pomerania Gdański there was no seaport, thanks to which Poland could trade with highly developed countries. However, our ancestors then stood at the height of the task, building from scratch the city of Gdynia, in which the sea port was built, whose turnover already in 1933 exceeded the turnover of the port of Gdańsk and which in 1939 belonged to the most modern in the Baltic Sea. Recalling the 100th anniversary of Poland's marriage to the sea, we should especially honor the heroes who fell on the seas and oceans for Poland, especially those who died during World War II, also remembering the people of the sea who serve their homeland every day in the Navy, as well as in all the organisations involved in the maritime economy. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Wicher, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u397	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak from this high speaker about the special day we had yesterday, which is February 11th. Exactly 13 May 1992 St. John Paul II the Great established the World Day of the Sick on the 75th anniversary of the Fatima apparitions or the 11th anniversary of the assassination of the Holy Father. On this day - or a day later - I would like to wish this group of our society, but also for all people in our country just to wish as much health as possible and that all the diseases and ailments that plague these people are within our medical reach. In this context, I would like to mention one unique action taken by the Government of Law and Justice, which is continued and extended. I wanted to talk about telemedicine, and in this context - about various projects carried out at national level, whether at the level of voivodships, on the example of the Małopolska voivodship and the task carried out by the seymik: tele-Angel, actions which involve equiping older people with bracelets with sensors, which allow to examine the rhythm of the heart on an ongoing basis or inform about the threat of life. This action is as desirable as possible and I hope it will also be intensively extended. It is very popular among older people. Ladies and gentlemen! Telemedicine is the future. Telemedicine will allow us not only to shorten queues, but also to faster diagnosis and better and more durable, more regular contact with a doctor who will be able to see our results on a regular basis on a computer or various devices. In this context, it is still important that... I'm gonna talk about one group in particular. These are diabetes, and more specifically diabetes, who would like to use the so-called "refinancing" by the age of 18 - because by the age of 18. sensors that automatically read the blood glucose level and send it to both a portable device, whether it's a phone or a tablet, and automatically, if possible, to medical offices or to a doctor who uses such elements of telemedicine. In the context of the introduction of e-documentation, e-services telemedicine and such activities, such as sensors for diabetics over the age of 18, allow older people not only to record their results more accurately and regularly, so that diagnosis and further treatment will be more accurate, because the doctor will have a better picture of the whole situation, the course of treatment and its effectiveness, but also, ladies and gentlemen, react faster to any imbalances. They allow these people to simply be safer, but also more rationally use medicines and administer these medicines as needed, not according to the prescribed dose, which is uncontrollable. Furthermore, I do not need to add that pricking a few times a day with a needle is not pleasant, and such a sensor is replaced every two to three weeks, so that we reduce these people's pain. To conclude, Mr. Marshal, the High Sejm, on the occasion of yesterday's World Sick Day, I wish everyone a recovery, a lot of strength and hope that our medicine also develops at such a rate, dynamically, and is growing in strength. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u398	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From 4th to 7th March in Zakopane and from 17th to 20th March in Bydgoszcz there will be National Winter Olympics in Zakopane - Bydgoszcz 2020. Nearly 500 athletes with intellectual disabilities from all over the country will compete in six winter sports. National Winter Olympics Zakopane - Bydgoszcz 2020 will be the biggest sport and social event of special Olympics this year in Poland. All guests of both parts of the games, and in Zakopane, and in Bydgoszcz, will want to show their support for the special Olympics athletes - extraordinary players who show every day that there are no impossible things, and each goal set is to achieve with proper commitment and determination. National Winter Olympics Zakopane - Bydgoszcz 2020 is a unique festival of sport. It's a sports competition, but it's also a whole cycle of preparation for them. Training, self-improvement is an opportunity for athletes with intellectual disabilities to participate in social activities and meetings with people. Fostering special Olympics is a great school that regardless of the degree of disability or lack of disability, we all have a similar desire to pursue the goal, we dream of success. In Zakopane there will be cross-country and downhill skiing competitions and snow rockets. In Bydgoszcz we will see unihokeja games, hall hockey and high-speed skaters. As the President of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Regional Committee of the Kujawsko-Pomorski Special Olympics, I would like to invite all of you to this unique sports holiday in Bydgoszcz, during which we will show our diversity and unity. In the halls of Artego Arena, Immobile Lucznik, at the Torbyd rink in Bydgoszcz and in Zawisza, disabled athletes will compete for medals of the games. Bydgoszcz has been called the city of sport for many years, because in its clubs many Polish and European champions, Olympic champions and world champions and European champions have been raised and trained. We are proud that Bydgoszcz can host such great sports competitions. Bydgoszcz wishes all disabled athletes who will be guests of the special Olympic Games to help them get their Olympic passports for the 12th World Winter Special Olympic Games in 2021. I invite everyone very cordially to the X National Winter Olympics in Zakopane, and especially, as a Bydgoszczian, to Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-02-12-sejm-05-1.u400	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 13 February 2020 at 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 35]]
