ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to determine the number of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted. [[Voting No 235]] So many are currently attending the meeting, but I see that this number is growing rapidly. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: Act on the change of the name of the University of Arts in Poznań and consider it as item 30 of the third agenda; the Act amending the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow and consider it as item thirty-four of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Law on the change of the name of the Art University in Poznań. The text of the Act is contained in print No 276 and the committee's report in print No 276 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u2	On behalf of the committee, I would like to recommend that the Senate adopt this proposal without amendments. Let me add that we are in a happy situation in this case, unlike the situation with yesterday, some of the proposals for resolutions taken yesterday... [[Something's fading, Senator.]] How about now? [[Yeah, we hear...]] Okay, let's do it again. On behalf of the committee, I would like to recommend the adoption of this law without amendment. The Commission was unanimous on this matter, no one opposed it, no one abstained. Let me remind you that this is about the Poznań University, which wants to take Magdalena Abakanowicz as a patron, one of the most outstanding artists of the 20th century, one of our two great artists, alongside Alina Szapocznikow, whose works are even captured by the most important museums in the world. We also have a happy coincidence, because this year is the 90th anniversary of her birthday, she was born in 1930. So we have such an additional excuse to accept such a change. I also want to emphasize the relationship between Magdalena Abakanowicz and the University of Poznań. She was a professor there for 25 years. Then she performed her professorship all over the world, including. At a prestigious college in Los Angeles. But, what I want to emphasize and what is most important, Magdalena Abakanowicz realized her projects not only in exhibition spaces, museum spaces, but also in public spaces. These are the works belonging to the absolutely most outstanding, most valuable, functioning in the public space not somewhere on the side, but in the main places, the most attractive, most visible, most spectacular. And these are spaces such as, for example, In Chicago, where the realization isn't single, it's just made up, if I remember, of 106 characters. We're in Los Angeles, New York, Paris, Toledo, Vancouver, Shanghai, Hiroshima. These are things that bring great prestige to artists from Poland, artists of contemporary art, and well testify not only about our universities, about our artists, but also about our country. I would like to recommend to the High Senate that this law be adopted without amendment and unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point I would like to welcome the Undersecretary of State in this ministry, Mrs Wanda Zwinogrodzka, and the director of the department of artistic education, Mr Jarosław Wartak. Do the Minister or the Director wish to speak? Thank you very much. Currently, the senators may submit questions to the representatives of the Ministry. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[Voice from the room: Wait, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: There's one.]] Oh, I'm sorry... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[A voice from the room: The candidate, however, wants to torture us...]] [[Voice from the room: But briefly.]] Well, I take it back, and I invite Senator Bosacki to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank you very much for this initiative and ask the High House to support this proposal. Professor Magdalena Abakanowicz was very closely associated with Poznan and the university, which today is called the University of Arts in Poznań and used to be called the State Academy of Arts in Poznan. She was, as already mentioned, a quarter-century lecturer of this university, but she was also and is still, in the form of his works An important part of cultural life and not only cultural Poznań. Every cognizant or inhabitant of the Poznań agglomeration knows a wonderful work, a sculpture, unrecognized at the Poznań Citadel, a group of hundreds of figures made of iron, and it is one of the favourite places of traditional weekend strolls of the inhabitants of Poznań. That's where children are led and what modern art is. And we should thank those who almost 20 years ago caused these sculptures to stand there, or sleep. Mr Jarosław Maszewski and then the rector of the university, Professor Wojciech Müller. But before that, as a lecturer, Professor Abakanowicz largely gave the tone of Poznań's cultural life. In times of the Polish People's Republic, she not only sent talented, young, students of Poznań to scholarships and foreign studies, but also half of her students came from the world, then, in these unleavened, difficult communist times. I therefore ask the High House to support this initiative as strongly as possible. Professor Magdalena Abakanowicz will be a great patron of our Art University. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko and Alexander Swed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, which will be shortly. According to the preliminary voting plans, they start at 10 a.m. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the fourth agenda: the Act on the change of the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow. The text of the Act is contained in print No 278, and the committee's report In print No 278 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we held a meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, at which we unanimously adopted by 9 votes in favour a law on the change of the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow. The purpose of the Act is to grant on 1 January 2021. The Academy of Music in Krakow named Krzysztof Penderecki, and therefore changing the name of the university to the following: the Academy of Music. Krzysztof Penderecki in Kraków. According to Art. The 35th Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Public Science of the Academy of Music in Cracow is created by law, and therefore the change in the name of such a university is also carried out by law. The bill, according to the justification, was prepared at the request of the Academy of Music in Cracow. It was the result of an initiative taken by the academic community of this university, supported by the resolution of its Senate No. 21/2020 of 22 June 2020. The name given to Krzysztof Penderecki Academy of Music in Krakow is an expression of appreciation for the achievements of an outstanding artist, while at the same time emphasising his long-term relationship with the Krakow music college. I'm asking the Senate to adopt the bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, represented by previously welcomed persons, was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski signed up for his first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u8	Very briefly, as a certain complement. I am very pleased that today at the Senate meeting 2 very well-deserved universities, extremely important for Polish culture, receive patrons Before the Academy in Poznań, now the Academy in Cracow. It seems to me that these are fantastic choices and very important decisions, decisions relating to absolutely the most outstanding representatives of our culture. I would like to stress that Krzysztof Penderecki is considered one of the most outstanding composers not only Polish, but even 20th century composers. Many of the most outstanding magazines reviewing political life, musical life, cultural life gave this title to Krzysztof Penderecki at the time he was alive. I also recall a large text in The Guardian, in which Krzysztof Penderecki was described as the most outstanding text in the 20th century. I want to congratulate both universities, but to mention Krzysztof Penderecki in a few sentences, because he simply deserves it. It was a Renaissance character, of many interests, who cared not only about the world of musical culture, but about the world of culture in general, who cared about other artists, representatives of other fields of culture. He was also passionate. I'm sure he'd like me to say that he was a de facto dendrologist. He founded a beautiful park in Lusławice, as well as a character who was exerting great pressure to improve the basic musical education of the audience above all. It was under his influence that in some sense I introduced music into primary schools as a compulsory subject after a dozen years of absence of this subject in primary schools. I would also like to stress that Krzysztof Penderecki was not only a composer, he was not only a conductor, but he was also an outstanding educator, an extremely, extremely valued educator. Besides, the object, which was founded in Lusławice, was dedicated to a young generation who wanted to contact Krzysztof Penderecki as actually such a figure as to determine the contemporary direction of music in the 20th century. I would also like to emphasise his interest in working with artists from various fields, including. with film directors. He was the author of important compositions in films, e.g. in Katyn, Andrew Wajda. This is worth remembering because these elements of his activity are countless and they are at the highest level The world level. I am glad to congratulate these 2 new patrons of universities in Poland and universities themselves. I think these are very, very good decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz will speak. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u10	Mr. Marshal, am I heard? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. I welcome you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Cracowian and former lecturer of the music academy, I am delighted to welcome the initiative that such a famous university will bear the name of Krzysztof Penderecki. Everything important has already been said by Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. I can only add that the academic community and we are all very pleased that this has happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u11	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u12	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I would like to express my great satisfaction and congratulate both universities Both Poznań and Krakow universities Such excellent, wonderful patrons. The Committee on Culture did not give an opinion on this resolution, but I think I can express great satisfaction on behalf of all because two such outstanding figures become patrons of important Polish artistic universities. So once again congratulations, once again immense satisfaction that these two names of outstanding, unique artists... We are proud and happy that they lived in our time, because these are artists who will surely remain in the memory of our culture for many years for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed and Krzysztof Brejza have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. There's no messages. I'm calling a recess until 10:00. We'll start voting at 10:00. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 35 to 10 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 16, 17 and 18 December 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Senate, following the second reading of the bill, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and obliged these committees to submit an additional report to the Senate at the present meeting. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to inform you that 7 amendments were tabled during the debate. The joint committees have considered them. One amendment was excluded due to the fact that it had passed the deletion amendment in the draft law of the provision concerned by the amendment. The joint committees recommend accepting all amendments and voting in favour of the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by Marshal Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Szejnfeld and Senator Bury. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote on item thirty-second of the agenda. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. "Print No 232 X' followed by the adoption of the draft, "Print No 232 S', in its entirety as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 seeks to ensure that businesses subject to a complete ban on their activities receive from the State budget financial resources to cover the costs of their activities, also incurred on the basis of a lease agreement and insurance of goods against their loss. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[That's how...]] [[Voice from the room: Thirty-second.]] Thirty-two, Mr. Senator Jackowski, thirty-two. [[I know, I know, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: A friend told him.]] I'm asking one of the remote senators to see if... Oh, the signal's gone. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, fifty-three votes for, 41 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 236]] Amendment 2 seeks to ensure that businesses subject to a total ban on their activities receive from the State budget financial resources to cover the costs of their business, on the remuneration of gross persons employed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 98 senators voted, 51 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 237]] Amendment 3 seeks to ensure that businesses subject to a total ban on their activities receive from the State budget financial resources to cover the costs of their activities per day of downtime caused by such a ban. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. We have to wait... 97 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 238]] Note that Amendment 4 excludes the vote on Amendment 5 and Amendment 4 deletes the provision abolishing the prohibition of trade on Sundays during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic and for up to 90 days following the withdrawal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 69 for, 29 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 239]] Amendment 5 is therefore excluded. Amendment 6 obliges the holder to use the commercial space to submit an unconditional and binding offer of his wish to renew the offer under the existing conditions for the duration of the prohibition. The offer shall be submitted within 3 months of the date on which the prohibition is lifted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes against, 46 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 240]] Amendment 7 seeks to ensure that during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic and up to 90 days later, the micro-entrepreneur may suspend his business activity for up to 6 months if his income in the last 2 months of the activity is at least 40% lower than the same period of the previous year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 241]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 242]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft act on the repeal of the Act on the National Media Council. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Culture and Media and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 152 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At today's meeting, the joint cultural and legislative committees adopted 4 amendments to the draft law on the repeal of the Act on the National Media Council. All these amendments are legislative in nature. The Commission asks the High Senate to adopt amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicant. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted according to the order of the draft rules in accordance with 152 X and then the draft in its entirety, No 152 S, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 should be voted on together, as these amendments only improve the drafting of the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 243]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 for, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 244]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft act on the repeal of the Act on the National Media Council and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Municipal Government Act and some other laws. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is available in print No 216 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Today, at the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Social and Senior Policy, as well as the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, 1 amendment was considered. The joint committees recommend its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u19	Thank you very much. Does Senator Jerzy Czerwinski still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, the vote on the amendment will be held. "Print No 216 X'followed by the adoption of the project in full, as amended by the amendment adopted; Print No 216 S. We proceed with the vote on an amendment which extends the county's tasks to public tasks above the level of senior policy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 245]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 246]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Municipal Government Act and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the submission to the Sejm of the draft law. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on informing and consulting employees. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is in print No 177 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! 3 Joint Committees The Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have today considered two proposals. It was a motion to reject the bill in its entirety. This was not supported by the joint committees . and an amendment which makes clear that there is no obligation for the employer to hold an election to the employment councils. This amendment was supported by the joint committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u21	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by senators Jerzy Czerwiński and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. After the vote on the amendment tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the adoption of the draft law We proceed with the vote on Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 247]] [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Jurek!]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate rejected the draft law amending the Act on informing and consulting employees and therefore concluded the proceedings in this case. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 257 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 248]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 650th anniversary of the death of King Casimir the Great. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the matter was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 258 S. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 249]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate passed a resolution on the 650th anniversary of the death of King Kazimierz the Great. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's conqueror. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 259 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Legislative Commission responded to the requests made at its meeting on 2 December. The Commission supported the conclusions contained in the compilation of the proposals and proposes that they be adopted by the Senate together with a draft resolution on commemorating the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's possessor, contained in print No. 259 S. During the meeting of the committee, 1 amendment concerning the uniform text of the resolution was discussed. In the vote 14 senators were in favour, 9 abstained, there were no votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u23	Thank you very much, senator. Do you still want to speak as an applicant?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u24	Yes. Mr Marshal, on behalf of the environments that supported this draft resolution, I would like to thank the Marshal for his rapid procession. I would like to thank the Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka for the idea of carrying out this project, and Senator Borowski, Senator Kwiatkowski and Senator Borusewicz for helping with the project. This is a very important day. Thanks again for helping everyone involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u25	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? Thank you. I don't see any volunteers. We therefore proceed to the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, 30 seconds to make it...]] Yeah, yeah. Well, Mr. Senator as a basketball player, and in 10 seconds, he's gonna walk that distance. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're measuring time. The first vote will be taken on Amendment 259 X and then on the adoption of the project as a whole, in print 259 S, as amended by the amendment adopted. Let's see if the senator shows up in his room. There it is. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Wojciech Necessary. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 for, 2 against, 47 abstentions. [[Voting No 250]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 57 for, 38 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 251]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's conqueror. We return to the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on works concession or service contracts, the Law on public procurement and certain other laws. Let me remind you that this is an urgent act. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 274 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mariusz Gromka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendments were tabled at the Senate plenary meeting yesterday during the discussion. A total of 22 amendments were tabled by Marshal Maria Koc. Therefore, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was held at which these amendments were presented. The amendments are clear, precise, editorial, harmonising terminology and technical and legislative. They increase the communicationability of the law in the interpretation and search aspects. I would also like to convey the opinion of the Ministry's representative, Minister, who thank you very much for your very good cooperation with our Legislative Office. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted together with the amendments. There is also a proposal to vote on these amendments together. That's what I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Does your Marshal, Maria Koc's applicant, still want to speak? [[No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. These amendments would be voted on together as long as this vote takes place. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 votes for, 45 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 252]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Contract for Construction or Services, the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws. We would like to return to the examination of the 30th agenda: the Law on the change of name of the Art University in Poznań. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 253]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the change of the name of the University of Arts in Poznań. We return to the examination of the 30th agenda: the law on changing the name of the Academy of Music in Cracow. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 278 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 254]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the change of the name of the Academy of Music in Krakow. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 18th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Stanisław Gawłowski will be the first to speak. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of the Family on the implementation of the 500+ programme. Originally, when the programme was implemented, the marshals and the marshals of voivodships were entitled to support Poles working abroad and having the power to apply for this form of assistance. This process lasted about 2, sometimes 3 months. The government claimed that this was too long and decided to improve the process, and therefore the task was transferred to the government administration, and precisely to the voivodships. Many Poles working abroad I come from West Pomerania, many people from here work on ships It submits these applications. Today it turns out that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Gentlemen of the Senators, please focus and conduct a dialogue, possibly outside the sitting room. You're welcome. Sorry to interrupt.]] Thank you very much. Today it turns out that this process, that the time between the submission of an application and its examination, takes more than a year. I know such cases from the western and pomorskie voivodship, from Koszalin district, where for example. An application was made last year in July and the case has not yet been dealt with. I'm not talking about whether she's going to be considered positive or negative, but about the fact that a citizen should just get an answer, an administrative decision because he's been granted this benefit. Or not. In general, the voivodship offices do not deal with the process of examining these applications. Therefore, on the one hand, I ask the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to improve the functioning of the government administration in the voivodeship administration, because this clearly indicates that the State does not function in this dimension. On the other hand, I bring to the Minister of the Family It is important that he reconsider the possibility of transferring this task to the marshals. There, in their offices, these tasks were carried out smoothly, without undue delay, marshals with their own funds helped and supported the government. So it seems that the centralization that the government is currently conducting in all its activities is, as you can see from this small example, extremely bad and ineffective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u29	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment, Mr Michael Kurtyki, on the benzene peaks occurring in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. Dear Minister, in connection with the still unresolved problem so-called. the benzene peaks occurring in the area of Kędzierzyn-Koźl and the worrying results of recent studies, which show that benzene levels during peaks may be much higher than observed so far, I request that 15 research stations be placed immediately in the area of Kędzierzyn-Kozielski County, which will measure the levels of benzene and xylene at the same time. Monitoring stations should be deployed within the area surrounding the industrial zone. The paper version lists those places where they should be. Such deployment of research stations should help the Regional Environmental Inspector to determine the origin of peaks, as well as contribute to the assessment of the actual concentration of benzene in the air throughout the entire Kędzierzyn-Kozielski district. I look forward to strong action by the Minister of Climate and Environment, because the services under you have not been able to solve this issue for several years. I would also ask for an answer on the following issues. Please indicate the number of measuring points and the hours and addresses in which representatives of the Regional Environmental Inspector have carried out field measurements of benzene concentrations in Kędzierzyn-Koźl from 17 January 2020 to 4 September 2020. Please provide these data in tabular form. Please agree to the participation of the social party and interested in the air protection of the city councilors Kędzierzyna-Koźla in subsequent field air measurements, which will be carried out by the Regional Environmental Protection Inspectorate. Please indicate all companies from the Kędzierzyn-Kozielski district that currently have permission to issue organized benzene. Please indicate all companies from the Kędzierzyn-Kozielski district where the currently unorganized emissions of benzene may take place. Please make available the list of companies from the Kędzierzyn-Kozielski district which, from 1 January 2010 to 27 November 2020, as a result of the inspection of the Regional Environmental Inspector, have been punished by mandates and administrative penalties for environmental damage, not only in terms of harmful effects on the air. Please state the amount of the mandates and administrative penalties and the time limits and reasons for the imposition, the follow-up recommendations and whether they have been implemented. Please provide full data on benzene emissions from the station at ul. Silver, School, Princes of Opole, Kościuszki, performing passive measurements within the framework of research project carried out in Kędzierzyn-Koźl, and from research station located at ul. Broniewski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment because it concerns a very important thing, namely the consent to the construction of the zinc mine in the territory of the Krakow-Czestochowa Jury. On 18 October 2016, the Government approved an update of the Vistula River Basin Management Plan, with an investment in Annex 31, called the construction of an underground mine for the extraction of zinc ores and lead from the deposit of Zawiercie 3. As a Member in 2017 and 2018, due to the numerous concerns of the residents of the Jury and Dąbrowski in terms of health and environmental effects, I have sent a number of interviews on the government's plans to grant consent to an investor, a Canadian company, to build a mine. I received a reply that there is currently no authorisation for the extraction of zinc ores and lead, but in fact the company has three concessions, two of 2010 and one of 2012, for the exploration and exploration of zinc ores and lead. Each of these concessions was granted for 10 years. The Ministry also explained that it is currently too early to address issues related to the possible extraction of zinc ores and lead from the Zawiercie district. At the end of the concession period, Minister Woś of the day issued a negative decision on the second concession for research deposits, pointing to the fact that, in my opinion, That the company had a sufficient 10-year period to examine deposits, and it does not make sense to extend this concession. The Minister fully agreed with the negative opinions sent by the 4 municipalities, which do not want to continue their research and mine. Currently, after the reconstruction of the government, the sentence was changed in relation to the opinion of the predecessor and the current government extended the concession for another 5 years, justifying its decision quite laconically: the licence for the exploration of zinc and lead deposits does not involve the granting of concessions for the construction of mines and the exploitation of zinc ores and lead. It's a justification, in my mind, but most of all, the people... They speak very harshly and decisively for the zinc and lead mines, they have established a special association and are fighting to prevent the destruction of the beautiful Krakow-Czestochowa Jury, as the formation of the mine raises concerns about environmental disturbances as well as negative health effects. From the citizen's point of view, the extension of this concession is very dangerous. And that is why I am asking the Minister here today to explain what happened, that there has been a change in this decision, that the concession has been extended for further years. It is also important here that, on the basis of the answers to these questions, the government and the Minister of the Environment take clear decisions and make a clear opinion, because it is still obscuring and evasive the answers that we receive, that of course it is possible to investigate and seek that what else is the issue of concessions, and what else is to be created, to build mines. That these are two different things, of course we all know exactly. The only question is that the process is prolonged, the concerns of the inhabitants are constantly escalated, there is no clear answer. Once again, I stress with all my might that for the inhabitants of these areas This is an extremely important decision and the people are very desperate about it. I therefore ask you to calm the mood of the people of this region and to make a clear, clear, final decision that will put an end to these diwags. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wojciech Necessary will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, In view of the high number of patients with COVID-19 who have died for several weeks, this is about 600 people per day, please note that according to the Ministry of Health in Poland there is a percentage of mortality of patients with COVID-19 in the months of October and November 2020. In the calculations, please take into account the total number of patients who died from SARS-CoV-2 infection and those who died from SARS-CoV-2 infection and concomitant conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u35	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement today is unusual because not outside the Senate, but to his marshal, Mr. Tomasz Grodzki. Mr. Marshal... [[I'm all ears.]] Well, it just so happens... On the original draft agenda, the eighteenth Senate meeting included a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich. I am authorised by the senators of the applicants to represent them in the drafting of this resolution, as well as by the Legislative Commission as rapporteur for this committee on this point. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the session, Senator Marcin Bosacki, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, requested a photo on the agenda, among others. this point and shift it to one of the next Senate meetings. As a general justification for this proposal, Senator Bosacki stated that further consultations and work on this project were needed. I opposed this proposal, pointing out that the work on this resolution has been going on for a very long time since 25 February, and that the draft has been adopted unanimously in the Legislative Commission by 12 senators from both the Senate opposition, i.e. the Law and Justice, as well as the coalition, the Civic Platform, the PSL and the SLD. In addition, 2 government opinions on this project, the March and September opinions, are positive. The project has therefore been consulted comprehensively. In the meantime, Mr. Marshal stated in his explanation, and I quote: "However, it came to me." Mr. Marshal's here to see you. The voices of the present German Polonia, who asked for the opportunity to present their doubts. As long as these additional issues are clarified, we will return to the procession. I wanted to clarify this last point presented by your marshal, but he wouldn't let me. As a result, the votes of the Senate majority cast 52 senators in favour, 43 against, 1 abstention. This item has been removed from the agenda. It was only on the occasion of the examination of one of the next items of the agenda that I managed to correct, that it was actually an unsupported attempt to block this draft resolution as the position of representatives of Polonia, and this is because during the work of the committee was the present representative of Polonia, vice president of the Polish Union in Germany, Anna Wawrzyszko, and accepted the text of the proposed resolution. Dear Marshal, please explain in writing who in Germany, perhaps in Poland, you have consulted the draft resolution. What is the function of these people? Who do they represent? What was the form of these consultations: oral, letter, telephone, electronic, e-mail? What were your doubts, comments, arguments for stopping or even stopping this resolution? What evidence was presented in support of these arguments? Were these merely verbal statements? Finally, what promises did you make to these people, and why? My interest in this procedure is based on two facts. Firstly, the work on this resolution takes a worryingly long time, in the Legislative Commission the pretext for their suspension was a lack of government position, while the draft resolution was approved by the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a few weeks after the start of work on the project. In the case of other draft government opinions or the presence of its representatives... [[Mr. Senator, five minutes.]] Last sentence. ...at the committee's meeting, it's not required. Secondly, perhaps more important, the German side had already avoided fulfilling its obligations. In general, the tool used to avoid them was simply the appointment, unfortunately under German auspices, of new and supposedly Polish organizations and the sharing of the environment. At the moment there is 1 accepted Association of Poles in Germany, there are clear structures, there is representation, everything is clear. So the question is: isn't what happens when you try to adopt this resolution partly inspired by the German side? I would ask for a very detailed explanation of the issues I have raised here. With respect, Senator of the Republic of Poland, Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u37	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski will speak, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I made one statement in writing, it's a little longer, and the other, it's shorter, I'm sending it to the Minister of Finance. I would like to point out that, recently, the public has been informed of an additional printing of about a hundred... [[Disruption during the speech]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u39	I'm afraid we can't hear the senator again. Maybe you can turn off the video, sometimes it helps when it comes to the fluidity of the transmission. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, we can't hear you at all. I suggest you give a statement to Marshal Borusewicz. [[...this decision...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] Your statement is incomprehensible. Just give us a minute. [[This is...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] Mr. Senator, we hear every fifth word. Let the IT guys try... Try to disable the video transmission, the IT team will contact you, and as soon as the connection improves, I'll give you the floor. Now I'll have another one on the list, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u40	Mr. Marshal, I am sending a statement to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and it concerns the use of anti-terrorist forces against women demonstrating. I ask you, Minister, who was in charge of the cover-up operation, but unfortunately, smashing women's demonstrations? What were the tactical assumptions? The question of who was driving is very important. As a matter of fact, no one is willing to admit it, and the press tips are on the Chief Chief or the Chief of the capital, Deputy Chief of the capital. So I'm asking you to tell me who was in charge of this and what were the tactical assumptions when they predicted the involvement of the anti-terrorist division and the use of telescopic sticks. What are the internal regulations on the use of telescopic sticks, and what are the internal regulations of the police on the use of anti-terrorist divisions using tactics to blend in and intervene? This is important because the officers of these types of structures operate in the civilian way and use them as we have seen, has led to the escalation of the conflict, has also led to the disgrace of the police, because they were policemen, although civilian. So please answer me, as far as possible, these specific questions as regards internal regulations on the use of anti-terrorist divisions, as well as the use of direct coercion measures by these departments, especially telescopic sticks, which have been used against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll inform you that I've allowed this statement, even though the information was fine, but none of the representatives of the Ministry have come forward. I therefore considered this statement appropriate. The speaker will be a remote professor, Senator Alicja Chybicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will address an important issue, namely the dry eye syndrome, the cybernetic eye and cybernetic brain in children arising from computer abuse, smartphones and other electronic devices. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health, two ministers, asking what has been done to prevent or minimise these two very dangerous phenomena. I am based here on the publication of Professor Grażyna Malukiewicz, a well-known Polish ophthalmologist from Bydgoszcz, who writes that digital eye or smartphone era, or digital eye syndrome is a dangerous condition that can affect the quality of vision, but above all reflects the way children learn. This applies to adults, of course, but my statement concerns children and remote education in relation to SARS-CoV-2 infection, which is the pandemic we have right now. I would like to add that there is a possibility of eye manifestation of infection and transfer of SARS-CoV-2. And that is the question to the Minister of Health: what has been done to protect the public from infection by the eyes? We cover our mouths, cover our noses, but there's no way to cover our eyes. The professor suggests that those who wear contact lenses should switch to glasses during the pandemic. Symptoms of this condition include lacrimation, dryness, burning, blurring of the image. The fact that too long sitting in front of a computer also has adverse effects on the brain of the child, the brain, which is still grinding and developing, is known. My question to both ministers concerns the following: do we know how long in different parts of the country Is there even control over this? The children are in front of the computer during the pandemic period? Do we know if any impact studies are being carried out? It's been months. I would like to say that in three months it will be a year since the pandemic in Poland. So the few months that children learn remotely are also needed... Have any recommendations been made to teachers and parents in terms of the length of time I've been in front of the electronic devices I've mentioned? Because it is known that a child may still use a computer for entertainment purposes after school. What was done about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. We're back to trying to connect with Senator Zdrojewski. Is Senator Zdrojewski available? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: I suggested that the Senator turn off the camera. Maybe it's got the camera off, but it is, because that was the suggestion, and that's what I put in the message.]] Mr. Senator Zdrojewski, even if we can't see you, we'd like to hear from you. [[Yes, I am.]] We hear, we hear.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u44	I'm not gonna turn on the video transmission anymore so I don't break the connection. There's a lot of snow in Wroclaw. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I made one statement in writing. The second statement is much shorter. I'm directing them to the finance minister. I would like to point out that the public received information about the additional issue of Polish banknotes in the amount of about PLN 100 billion this year. This decision was positively assessed by economists. It was mainly linked to the Treasury bond market. But as we stand out from high inflation in Europe, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, and also through him the National Bank of Poland, about the entire issue of new banknotes in 2020 I would like to cut through certain speculations that arise, about the source of our inflation resulting from the additional printing of funds, just banknotes with very high denominations. I would like to cut these speculations, and therefore my inquiry and my statement to the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-03-senat-18-6.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. You were well heard this time. The statement has been accepted. Thank you for speaking. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 18th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 11 minutes 06]]
