ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u1	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! Honourable High Izbo! Request for a break to convene the Senior Convention in order to decide on the introduction of today's state debate, a state of emergency, in fact, but not de iure. As we hear, unfortunately, not from your marshals, not from other people who led the nation, there was that night, for some lucky ones, an agreement over the troughs. Ha, ha, ha. However, the news is also accompanied by disturbing news of a crawling coup. Two individuals prophesy how the Supreme Court will decide. Ba, they're even going to design the actions of your marshal himself. Although these individuals are Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but only to my fellow Members. Let's discuss this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u2	Thank you, sir. It was a recess request. I like it very much. The second formal proposal, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u3	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask for an adjournment and a call to the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda for the government's information on how much public money has been spent on the elections scheduled for 10 May, who is behind this spending, who is responsible for this spending and how much money has been lost by the sovereigns. I ask you, Marshal, to debate how this bill should be completed. The left hand shows -- we have here -- the bill, just type in the number. These are millions of zlotys stolen from Poles. There was an anti-constitutional deal last night. A private Member, along with an acrobat Member, who at one point can tie his spine to a knot, swallow his tongue and make a twine, stole elections from Poles. In what mode does the right hand speak about the non-constitutional way of interrupting or moving elections? What is the right-wing mode when talking about pulling the Supreme Court (The Bell) to rule on the absence of elections?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u4	Thank you, sir. There's a second, identical, request for a recess. And the third formal proposal, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course: the elections in May will not be, because you have ruined this election process so badly that it is unrealistic. Yesterday you found out the fact we've been talking about for a few months that the elections aren't going to be held, but at the same time you're trying to pretend that you want to do it democratically. If that's the case, today you should reject the envelope bill, [[Applause]] a law in which you wish to give competence to Jack Sasin and Polish Post officials to conduct the plebiscite, not the elections. Today is a test for decency, today is a test for whether you want to talk about safe, fair choices carried out within a reasonable time in accordance with the constitution, or do you want to make some political deals. I therefore request that the deliberations be adjourned and adjourned until 11. And at that time, Together let's accept good (The Bell) solutions for fair and safe choices... Thank you, sir. Your Marshal, allow me to finish my sentence. Let's be serious. ...because what you're proposing is nothing more than a political hucpa. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u6	Thank you, sir. The competent committees have submitted reports... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me, we'll check the quorum, of course. Two formal requests for interruption and a request for deferral have been submitted. But first, we'll check the quorum. I would very much like to ask all Members present in the Chamber and those outside the plenary room, as well as Members who are connected to us remotely, to press any button to establish quorum. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 459 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. There's been a request for a recess. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 224 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. And the second conclusion. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 224 - for, 235 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft ratification laws in prints 359, 360, 361 and 362. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection. In view of the opposition raised to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the reports on printing No. 359, 360, 361 and 362 will settle this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Reason for objection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the deadline referred to in Article. 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in the case of printing reports 359, 360, 361, and 362, will press the button. Reason for objection, Marshal. Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're in the middle of a vote. But before he came, there was no vote. You want to vote on an unjustified motion? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You want to talk about the michałki, and you don't want to talk about the crime that your minister Sasin is the hero of. Have a seat. You're gonna throw yourself away so he doesn't pay out of his own pocket for those cards that you gentlemen... Mr President, I would ask you very much not to discuss this right now, okay? Mr Kaczyński has addressed me with respect. Because you, Mr President, are constantly provoking these answers. 459 Members voted. 412 - for, 44 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the offer. Because there was an objection to the three-minute speeches, so we're gonna vote it out. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the print reports 359, 360, 361, and 362, would like to raise his hand and press the button. It doesn't work for us. It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 373 - for, 86 - against, 1 abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The Senate adopted a resolution rejecting the law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. The Senate's resolution is number 366. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of this resolution. I propose, on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, examination of the resolution without prior referral to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens asked the government to provide information on the situation on the credit market due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda for this information. In this case, I propose that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of the draft Law No 353. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 353, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 447 - for, 12 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We are returning to the review of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. An amendment was tabled during the discussion. In view of the proposal to refer the draft law back to the Infrastructure Commission, objections were raised. I will put to the vote the proposal to refer the draft law back to the Committee on Infrastructure in order to present a report. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will proceed to the third reading after delivery of the amendment to the ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal to re-direct the bill to committee would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 267 for, 189 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the method of calculating the annual gross domestic product. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 355. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 355 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 449 was in favor, 10 against, holding off on one. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the calculation of the annual gross domestic product. We proceed to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 (print No 366). I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Act of 6 April 2020 on special rules for the conduct of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 6 April 2020 on special rules for conducting the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? With a formal application. I made a formal motion before the vote. 460 Members voted. 236 was for, 213 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. [[Applause]] Knock on the head. At this end we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. Your marshal, are you allowed to speak at the gallery? Formal requests... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're all saying I don't understand. Mr... Don't shout. Formal proposal, Mr Michał Drink, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u7	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to make this formal application earlier, at this point it is unobtrusive, but in this situation, quite difficult situation for Poland, when we are victims of the plague, which fell on the Polish society and the Polish state, I am very glad that there was a majority, there were people who could find a good compromise for Poland. Vaseline. I also regret that you have rejected the outstretched hand of the United Right in order to rationally stabilise the political situation in our country. Thus, Poles gain elections, which will be fully free, will be democratic and the state will gain political stability. And for this compromise, for this political maturity, not everyone who is sitting in this Chamber passed this exam at such a difficult time for Poland, I would like to thank our partners, especially President Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Poland won! Thank you very much. Ooh! Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u8	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Formal conclusion, Mr... Boo-boo, boo-boo! Formal conclusion, Mr Boris Budka. Your Marshal, do we have to listen to Mr. Shieldinski at the gallery? When other Members are not allowed in the O.R. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fall. What you're saying is completely different from what you've done. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just given your marshal the opportunity to postpone the election. You've introduced a possibility for Mr. Sasin to carry them out. This is indecent. You talk about democracy, you talk about honesty. Today you excluded several hundred thousand Poles abroad from voting. These are your standards. Big success? Yeah, because you're not gonna get kicked out of the letter. [[Applause]] You can end up exactly like President Andrzej Duda and President Kurski. These are your standards. You're talking about failing the exam. Yeah, you didn't pass the exam today. You failed the elementary decency exam. You promised an equal, free, universal election, and you made an envelope election. And yet your marshal can set a deadline, because tomorrow, today, your Constitutional Court will confirm it. This is a fall, but a fall from which you will not rise, sooner or later. You cheat and cheat because it's written into your political genes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u10	Thank you, sir. And the last formal proposal, Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I move to close this session of the Sejm because since the party is everything and the state is nothing, exactly as it was more than 30 years ago, why all these facades? Why some facades in the form of a Marshal of the Sejm, in the form of the State Election Commission, in the form of, [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Supreme Court? I only have one appeal to you, since you're already playing chess on the chess board. Besides, I would like to say that in these shifts, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Marshal, is just trying to beat a few Members of the internal competition... Unfortunately, this chessboard is Poland, and you, Mr President, are playing with yourself. At a time when there's an epidemic, a drought, geopolitical challenges, you're in the middle of a state, you're in the middle of a complex state. I only have one appeal: don't humiliate the Supreme Court more because it's enough (the bell) that you put a homosexual advocate at the head of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u12	Thank you, sir. We have not exhausted the agenda of today's sitting. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 09 min. 55 hours 10 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018 (prints No 199 and 359). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union Commission on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. The committees: the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee for Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 6 May 2020, request that the High Sejm adopt draft law from print No 199 without amendments. I would like to stress, Madam Marshal, High Izbo, that the main objective of this agreement is to define the principles and conditions on which the partnership between the parties, the European Union and Singapore is to be based, to strengthen bilateral relations, to strengthen political dialogue and cooperation in the areas covered by the agreement. It should be stressed that both committees, after discussion, accepted and expressed a positive opinion in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u14	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Kacper Płażyński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement that we are to ratify today is very general in its records, but it contains specific tools, specific tools also for the Polish government, for the Polish state, to deepen cooperation, among others. in the fight against the 21st century challenge of terrorism, which is also the mafia in white collars, the tax mafia, the bribe mob. Singapore has very far-reaching successes in this respect. Also recent years in Poland show that it can be fought against. It is important that, in areas such as this, the rule of law and the fight against organised crime, we support each other, especially given that we are talking about crimes with an international dimension. Singapore, ladies and gentlemen, is a small country territorially, but the fourth largest financial centre transaction in the world. And even from this point of view, this is an important argument for today's support for this agreement to be ratified by the Sejm. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement in most of its provisions is really about economic, commercial issues. It is intended to enable the freer exchange of services, goods between the countries of the European Union, those who decide to ratify this agreement and Singapore itself. And from the point of view, which is very important, symbolic, perhaps too much to say, it is good that there are drafts of international agreements, which are primarily based on what the European Union was once built on, what its creators wanted most, on the one hand on such lasting peace, and on the other hand on deepening economic support for those more in need. It is generally about trade, free trade, so that all of us Europeans can benefit from it. Today, at a time of globalisation, we are entering higher levels of goods exchange and trade. I think it is good if the agreements that we ratify, which ratify the Member States of the European Union, on such things, are based on such dogmas. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club today will support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u16	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Paweł Zalewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of supporting today the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Singapore. This agreement is an example of the Union's role in exploiting the potential of 27 countries so that each of them has instruments to realise its interests in the world. Unfortunately, this salvific role, this salvific role of the European Union for Poland, is today by the rulers of the Negotiated. You accuse the Union of not fulfilling its tasks, especially today, during the pandemic. That's a lie you're committing, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS. There is nothing to say about EUR 13 billion from the EU budget, and this is more than PLN 58 billion, which has been earmarked for the fight against the coronavirus and will allow companies to maintain their operations and provide hospitals with the necessary equipment and resources. You are mocking the European Commission's action to raise money to ensure that all European citizens, including Poles, have equal access to diagnosis, treatment and vaccine for Coronavirus. Germany and France have declared EUR 500 million each to the joint fund, Prime Minister Morawiecki - only 750 thousand. Euros. That's over 13 times less than Slovenia. And this is about medicines used to save the health and life of Poles, medicines on which Poland itself would not have a chance. Shame. Shame, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS. You show that you ignore European solidarity and do not want the solidarity of other peoples of the Union for Poles. You destroy trust in Poland and isolate it in the European Union and in the world. You're looking for friends in China, from which you buy a giant amount of equipment without approval. You are fighting the Union because it wants equality and justice for Poles in court. You criticize her, and you did nothing to strengthen her. You want weak Poland in an even weaker Union, so that no one defends the values important to Poles from you, so that no one interferes with the ownership of the state. Meanwhile, Poles need strong Poland in a strong European Union. The condition for this is to restore the trust (The Bell) and the international credibility of Poland. Our candidate, Marshal Błońska, demands this. Thank you very much. Her victory in the election will enable Poles to... What does that have to do with anything? ...taking advantage of all the opportunities that the Union offers, the opportunities you're wasting today. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Paul, not about the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u18	Thank you very much, sir. However, I would like to remind you that we are at the point on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Singapore. It's so okay. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented to the High House by Mr Andrzej Szejna. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left parliamentary club on the draft law on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. The conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement, which is of strategic importance and creates a legal framework for long-term bilateral relations, and the strengthening and strengthening of cooperation in regional and international fora and in areas such as environmental protection, international stability, justice, security and development, are fully justified. This agreement is intended to lay down the terms and conditions on which the partnership between the parties will be based, strengthening bilateral relations, strengthening political dialogue and cooperation in the areas covered by the agreement, including economic cooperation. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 The agreements undertake to respect the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, also reaffirm the common values set out in the United Nations Charter and declare the promotion of sustainable development and cooperation in order to meet the challenges of climate change and globalisation. Art. The three agreements oblige the parties to cooperate within regional and international fora and organisations such as the UN, the EU-ASEAN dialogue, the ASEAN regional forum, the Asia-Europe dialogue and the World Trade Organisation. In addition, in all sectors covered by the dialogue, the parties agree to continue their related activities at bilateral, regional or by combining both dimensions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 and 21 agreements between the Parties confirm cooperation to combat terrorism and its financing, inter alia. implementing Security Council Resolutions into the national legal order UN Resolution No 1371 and other relevant United Nations resolutions, as well as international conventions and acts. The Parties consider the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems to be the greatest threat to international stability and security. For Poland, the provisions on economic cooperation are particularly interesting. Art. 9 obliges the parties to cooperate with each other in trade and investment in order to strengthen and develop trade. It should be stressed that Singapore is by far the largest trading partner in the South East Asian region, as confirmed by the figures. It is also important to ensure that customs procedures are simplified and transparent customs and commercial rules are adopted. It should be noted that this agreement may have a positive impact on the situation of natural and legal persons wishing to participate in trade and service with Singapore. In a time of crisis caused by the epidemic, Poland needs such agreements. They give us the opportunity to stimulate trade, increase prosperity and establish new contacts by Polish entrepreneurs resulting in long-term cooperation. In view of all the benefits (the bell) of this Agreement, the parliamentary club of the Left agrees with the position reached during the joint session of the Sejm committees and proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u20	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented to the High House by Andrzej Grzyb. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! By speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I would like to say that I would like to express a positive opinion on both the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other hand, as well as on the law which consents on behalf of the High House, the Polish Parliament, to the modalities for its ratification, i.e. under Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. I am convinced, and I am saying this on behalf of the parliamentary club, that the very fact that Poland is one of the first countries to undertake the ratification of this agreement demonstrates the importance of the country with which the Member States of the European Union and the Union are dating both as regards the content of this agreement. This agreement is mixed because it concerns both the competences of the European Union and the Member States, but it is also a framework, i.e. a general framework for cooperation, both political, economic and education, culture and other areas. I would like to stress that this fact that we are one of the first Member States of the European Union to ratify this agreement shows the importance of the country with which this agreement is concluded. As already mentioned here, the fourth financial centre of the world, but on the other hand also the centre of many economic operations. More and more, more and more often not only financial operations, but also economic operations are important in this globalised world. Although the question of how this globalised world will look after the epidemic or the pandemic of Coronavirus, whether there will be some elements of regionalisation of economic cooperation, not to mention nationalisation, we must be aware of that too. Such an agreement also has certain elements that can support this process or prevent the consequences. I would like to point out here that unlisted human rights are part of this agreement, and I think that also security issues, including energy security, combating terrorism, also what we call a global climate problem, migration, cooperation in research, science, culture. The agreement will not require, which is also important, changes in Polish law, but may be the basis for concluding specific agreements on areas of cooperation which are not covered by international conventions. In conclusion, I state that the ratification procedure as expressed in the Act (The Bell) is right, therefore the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski will present the position of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, is ahead of us. This is a very high degree of generality agreement. It's very careless. Most of the agreement is like phrases: we will promote, we will inform, there will be an exchange of views. It looks a little like the first meeting between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Singapore. You could say, first date, just getting acquainted. However, there are two interesting questions about the articles of this agreement, to which I did not get satisfactory answers at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs yesterday. First of all, why the optically largest article in the contract as a whole is Article. 19, and it concerns migration? Is there anything disturbing, or is there something unique about migration at the interface between the European Union and Singapore? Because to be honest, I didn't know that was the main problem to be addressed in this context. The answer of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that somehow it needs to be settled, I'll let myself be silent. Secondly, the article is very interesting. 31 on energy, one of the few relatively specific points under this agreement. In point 1 (d) There is this provision: Combating climate change, including by pricing carbon allowances. To my question about this point, I got the answer that these are general entries that form part of a broader context. Except my question was, did somebody analyze it? What could be the consequences for the Polish country of such a point? And it was left unanswered. After the introduction, it may be that the European Union then tells us to implement something, and to respond to the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the fact that it is such a general agreement, the European Union can react with less sense of humor. So I'd like to know in detail what we're voting on, and that answer, in my mind, I didn't get it. Because the response to the general agreement We as the Confederation are not satisfied, we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the partnership and cooperation agreement, which Poland, I hope, ratifys, after the agreement of the High House, creates a framework for cooperation in various areas, including the economic area. It seems that in Poland, such a state institution, whose activities could make sense in this area, is the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. This agency, set up by the PiS government in 2017, was to be such a vehicle transferring economic diplomacy in the 21st century. Unfortunately, after 3 years of adoption of the law, the agency has not even earned a decent website, not to mention other activities. But in order for us to be also clear, I ask for this information: How much did the Polish investments in the years 2018 and 2019 in Singapore increase in proportion to the years 2016 and 2017 (The Bell) and what activities did the agency take in Singapore to encourage Singapore companies to invest in Poland? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u27	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The ratification of this agreement is a necessity resulting from the possibility of benefiting from mutual cooperation. Singapore is one of the best or most outstanding countries in which a number of positive strategies have been implemented. I would like to remind you that the last few years have been the domination of Singapore in the best education solutions in the world. It's not in this case. This was the consequence of adopting the full policy of this country to make Singapore the best country in the world in terms of education. This is, of course, an economic issue that concerns many companies and the financial center of the world. There are many very interesting solutions in the space of building agglomerations, many technological elements. It is also a country where Catholics are a large part of the population. I believe that the ratification of this agreement (The Bell) and the acceleration of cooperation between Poland and Singapore is simply in the interest of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u28	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u29	God's greetings to everyone in Poland and Singapore. Singapore - that sounds very tempting. Strengthening, strengthening cooperation, inspiration from Singapore is a beautiful prospect. Death penalty, great health system, pension system, insurance system, which is an excellent reference point for us. In cooperation with Singapore, we could call for the ZUS financial pyramid to be dismantled before it collapses on our heads. But, on the other hand, despite all these temptations - as I say, including the main penalty, which is still the basis of common sense in the justice system there - nevertheless, such agreements, which are the implementation of Eurokolchoz law into the law of the Republic of Poland, raise our greatest doubts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence the question: What are the fruits of cooperation with Singapore that we could not live on, which we could not do in trade, in cooperation, in communication without signing such agreements? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u31	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already stressed during the club's speech, the Left Club supports the ratification of the framework agreement by law. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether the government is aware of certain limitations in our subsequent cooperation concerning, among others, the issue. Singapore's restrictions on assembly rights, the rights of the LGBT minority, or finally, as he mentioned joyfully [[Applause]] Mr. Grzegorz Braun, issues related to the application of the death penalty. I hope that these issues will be addressed quite hard in our bilateral relations and that Poland will represent the civilized, European and related views of the international conventions that bind us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this speaker I criticized Prime Minister Morawiecki for the fact that in his exposé in this term the Sejm defined and outlined Asia as the source of the threat, including the economic threat, which is absurd. Today Asia is the largest market, the greatest potential, the greatest opportunity to develop, including Singapore. But why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot assertively fight in the EU forum, in the European forum, to ensure that globalist trends, including the most damaging to the Polish economy, such as those relating to gas emissions, related of course to coal burning... Why can't he fight for it and recklessly copy everything that goes from Brussels to our legal system? The Confederation will, of course, oppose all globalist tendencies to implement into Polish law. 'Cause that's not what it's all about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] international trade. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u34	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u35	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! Art. The three agreements oblige the parties to cooperate within regional and international fora and organisations such as, of course, the UN, the European Union-ASEAN dialogue, the ASEAN regional forum, the Asia-Europe dialogue and the World Trade Organisation. These are all very general terms. I wanted to ask you, I wanted to find out what these terms really mean. Will this cooperation only concern economic issues? If so, to what extent? Will it also concern human rights and respect for them? Because I think it's very important that this cooperation is extended to this area as well. I'm asking for an answer on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u36	Thank you very much, Member. Will you, by the end of your term of office, be so comical as to define the role of Marshal of the Sejm? The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, will answer the questions raised by the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u37	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A few threads appeared in the questions. Maybe I'll start with the most common one - the issue of protection, the defence of human rights and cooperation in this area. This is an agreement - as was mentioned in the debate - and several speakers spoke about it - of a very general nature, an agreement using certain terms of password as a result. As is the case with the documents that you have received, this will be reflected in the agreements on specific areas. We have trade issues, we have cooperation issues in the fight against crime. It is also true that some of these agreements already operate in trade between the European Union, the Member States and the Republic of Singapore, but also some of these issues require cooperation within different international organisations. You have said that there are doubts about certain human rights issues. I think that it is all the more necessary to vote in favour of this agreement, because it will allow the European Union to influence Singapore's position on these issues. That's right, I think, the advantage of this deal. You convinced me. On the other hand, let us remember that not the volume, not the number of words recorded indicates their value, but their meaning, what is written. It is not the volume of individual records that counts and their content. Exactly. As regards migration issues, which are discussed in a rather broad way, I would point out that Singapore belongs to those countries that have the most restrictive migration policy. As a result, it could also be said that it has a slightly different policy in this area than our predecessors and the European Union did until we started as a government of law and justice to change this policy. Excuse me? Increasing imports of refugees. This, in turn, seems to me, is another asset capable of supporting the ratification of this agreement. Speak for yourselves. Energy and CO-related issues
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017 (prints Nos 200 and 360). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As with the previous law, also in this case, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Commission on European Union Affairs will present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. The Commissions: to the European Union and Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 6 May 2020 request that the High Sejm approve the draft law from print no. 200 without amendments. The primary objective of this Agreement is to strengthen strategic relations and to strengthen cooperation at bilateral, regional and global level based on shared values and interests and to strengthen political dialogue. The Agreement contains an obligation to respect the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law and to cooperate for international peace and stability, cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In summary, two joint committees, after discussion, analysis and hearing of the paper from a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are asking the High Sejm to approve this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u40	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anita Czerwińska. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand, in Manila on 7 August 2017, print No 200. The aim of the agreement is to establish a stronger partnership between the parties, to create a framework to facilitate and support cooperation in many areas of common interest and to strengthen cooperation to develop solutions to regional and global problems. The relationship between Australia and the European Union is based on economic ties, a community of values and a similar view of international governance. In addition to trade and investment, which is a fundamental component of these bilateral relations between the European Union and Australia, cooperation also concerns foreign policy, security, education, culture, the fight against terrorism and organised crime. The content of the agreement is based on three pillars. These include: political cooperation on foreign policy and security issues, cooperation on economic and trade issues, as well as sectoral cooperation, among others. in areas such as research and innovation, education and culture, the fight against organised crime. Australia is one of the most important partners of Poland in the Asia-Pacific region. This agreement is part of the principles and objectives of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards Australia. The partnership with Australia is largely based on a well-established economic position, a growing political role in the region, by strengthening its status as part of the NATO partnership and its commitment to democratic values, and by promoting international governance based on the law and strategic interests of regional and global security. This agreement should further develop bilateral cooperation, inter alia. in areas such as foreign policy and security, development aid, economy and trade, justice, research and innovation. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u42	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Tomasz Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the Government's Draft Printing Act No 200 on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. We have been waiting three years for the government to address the strategic partnership between the European Union and Australia. This is particularly important now, after the brexite, because the UK was the number one player among the countries of the European Union for Australia. This agreement translated into trade or investment, and above all into good diplomatic relations. Therefore, once the UK has left the European Union, this strategic agreement must be signed and put into effect with mutually beneficial indicators of cooperation, as at least the current trade and investment efficiency in Australia will have to be maintained. Today, the European Union is China's second largest trading partner and first investor. What do we have in common, the European Union and Australia? Of course, the world of values: democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights, the liberal economy, the conviction also of strengthening institutional international cooperation - the UN, the WTO - we also have an approach to climate change, acceptance of the Paris Agreement, which is now very important in view of the fact that some countries, in euphemistic terms, are withdrawing from this agreement, and the climate is what it is, and we need to respond to it. Australia is undoubtedly such a partner. The categorical fight against terrorism also brings us together in this conviction, but also the fight against protectionism in trade. What is the link between Poland and Australia? Sentimental considerations, this is the obvious, 180 thousandth Polonia in Australia or, for example, the Kościuszko Mountain, the symbol of Australia and at the same time the symbol of Poland in Australia. But we also have hard economic data and space to expand them. We are now 12th in trade and investment among the countries of the European Union and our trade balance is positive. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of adopting this law and ratifying a favourable strategic cooperation agreement between the European Union and Australia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Szejna, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, it has been my honour to present my position on the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. Australia is undoubtedly one of the important political and economic partners of the European Union. The European Union is right to pursue a strategic partnership with Australia with which diplomatic relations date back to 1962. The European Union, Australia and the Member States are in favour of free trade, strengthening the role of the UN or the WTO, implementing commitments for climate protection, development aid. The entry into force of the Agreement strengthens the development of economic relations. For Australia, the European Union is the second largest trading partner after China and the largest investor after the US, but the UK's exit from the European Union poses a risk of weakening its cooperation to date as the United Kingdom is a leading partner in trade in goods and services with the European Union. This is an additional argument for ratification of the Framework Agreement. In future relations, stronger emphasis must be placed on scientific, cultural cooperation and inter-human and academic exchanges. Australia is a strong ally of the European Union in its efforts to increase its influence and influence as a stabiliser in the Asia-Pacific region. Poland should undoubtedly support further strengthening multifaceted relations to the benefit of developing bilateral cooperation in areas such as foreign and security policy, non-proliferation, combating terrorism and cyber terrorism, promoting democracy and human rights, sustainable development, development aid, economy and trade, justice, research, education, climate change, migration and public health protection. An important, very important element of the Agreement is the establishment of a Joint Committee as a body composed of representatives of the parties, whose task will be to consult and supervise the achievement of its objectives. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Parties agree to cooperate on foreign and security policy issues through regular political dialogue at different levels. Foreign policy issues of the European Union and Australia are closely linked, inter alia. to Ukraine, Russia, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea or the Middle East. An important element of the Framework Agreement is the firm commitment of partners to cooperate in combating terrorism and cybersecurity issues, including the fight against cybercrime and the widespread application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. I would therefore like to express my support for the proposal for a law ratifying the framework agreement without amendment on behalf of the Left Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another draft law - a law relating to the ratification of the framework agreement on cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other. It's the same kind of deal as in the case of a cooperation agreement with Singapore. The nature of the agreement indicates that it has general provisions but does not contain details - further agreements may be concluded in relation to sectoral issues. On the other hand, what is important and what should also be highlighted here - it concerns both the competences of the European Union and the Member States. The mixed nature makes us particularly interested in this as one of the parties. This, of course, mainly concerns political cooperation, economic cooperation, but in fact there are a number of issues that are difficult to solve within the framework of, for example, the World Trade Organisation, liberalising issues, technical standards, but also issues which I have highlighted in the case of the Singapore Agreement, human rights. Here, in particular, I would like to draw attention to the issue of cooperation in respect of the fulfilment of the provisions of the Rome Statute relating to the functioning and competence of the International Criminal Court. Why do I stress that? I think that right now, when we're very focused on overcoming this challenge of pandemic, we're starting to forget a little bit about the issues that, I'm going to say, are hanging to settle. This is a question of the crime of genocide, which took place, among others. in the Middle East in particular, in relation to the societies of other minority denominations in that area, and for which both the American Congress and the European Parliament have stated that they are bearing all signs of genocide. And it seems to me that Australia is a good partner here to, as a result, lead to effective enforcement of the law, putting those who are guilty of these crimes before this tribunal. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are provisions on research, scientific cooperation, exchanges, including exchanges on scientific cooperation, the information society, and thus on security elements, including cybersecurity - those with which modern societies and countries face. I also draw attention to the fact that we are addressing the issue of ratification of this agreement by law, i.e. by fulfilling the art standard. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution (the bell) stating that it is Parliament that agrees to ratify such an agreement in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u48	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski will speak on behalf of the Confederacy circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, is ahead of us. During yesterday's joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs, I asked the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, to answer two questions. First of all, the carbon issue. As you know, Australia is the largest coal producer in the world and one of the largest exporters. Australian investments in Poland are mainly mining. Let's look at three articles now. Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 talks about further liberalisation of trade, Article. 17, on public procurement, speaks of a commitment to openness and the lack of barriers, and Article. 27, about raw materials, speaks of a market approach. Therefore, my question: Were there any analyses made, what this could mean for our Polish mines in the context of possible mass imports of coal? I've been told it's just a general agreement, and the details will be discussed separately. This does not convince us at all, because the details will be established on the basis of this general agreement and these details will be in line with this general narrative, and because we do not have, as the Secretary of State mentioned, detailed analyses, what this might mean for the Polish state, in no case should we ratify this agreement. I also asked a second question, ancillary, whether there was an analysis carried out, to which this agreement is most profitable from European Union countries, given, for example, that Siemens, a German company, is cooperating in the creation of a new coal mine in Queensland, and it is also known that the Germans, under the influence of the political situation, have withdrawn from part of the mines, but still have opportunities and would like to invest in another region of the world. I didn't get an answer to that question either. I come to a sad conclusion here, which, with further agreements, confirms only that in the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is no analysis of the effects that individual provisions of individual agreements will have on the situation of Poland and Europe, and this is very worrying. In view of these and many other doubts about this agreement, the Confederation will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u50	Thank you, sir. That concludes the statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, it is true that the balance of trade between Poland and Australia has been positive for years. After Poland's accession to the European Union, this cooperation is developing and, it must be said clearly, from year to year more and more. I'm from Silesia. I've heard a lot of comments about coal here. Yes, it is true, Australia is producing more than 500 million tons of coal, in Poland we have problems to extract 60 million tons, but for years this cooperation in the development of mining and innovation between Poland and Australia has been developing. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa not long ago signed another agreement with a company from Australia in the field of innovation and development. I hope that this agreement will help to carry out further cooperation between Polish companies (Dzwonek) from the mining industry. That's not all. Cooperation in the import of mining machinery and equipment is developing very well. Here, too, we are in the world's leading position, and we are also doing very well on the Australian market. Minister! I wanted to ask you how much this agreement can support or develop cooperation between the mining industry from Poland and Australia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u52	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Please hold your time. The time has been set, it's 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is, of course, one of the several agreements that we are investigating today, so it is worth asking about the effects of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency's activities. It was established in 2017 to strengthen Poland's economic presence on international markets and lead to a situation in which Polish companies will invest. Question, Minister: How much did Poland's investment in Australia increase in 2018 and 2019? How was Australia used to be a very attractive partner for Poland and these bonds are, I would say, multifaceted? On the other hand, how much has been done and what measures have been taken to encourage investors from Australian companies to invest in Poland? And I'll also ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u54	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're in the middle of a free trade agreement with Australia. Questions arise because negotiations were still under way in October 2019. Poland undoubtedly wants to enter Australian markets, wants to enter easier, but there are such controversial issues, e.g. The issue of car duties or luxury vehicle tax is such a damn thing. Then climate regulations, even though the Paris Agreement etc., everything is fine, but we have a problem with fuels, because they have a more liberal approach to the emission of motor fuels. And geographical indication: 170 types of food and 230 types of alcohol are geographically reserved. Australia won't accept it. What is the case today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u57	I read in this agreement that we are to ratify it on the basis of a community of values. I'd like to hear how valuable that is. If the Minister could present them at least a short list, because Australia is the country where abortion was legalized last year on request and last year the first unfortunate took advantage of the possibility of a legal euthanasia procedure. Looks like it's still our Polish in some ways. Hobbiton is going to ratify the agreement with Mordor on the basis of common values, Minister. Explain to me how it's going to be with these values, and which way is the transfer of these values. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the Minister expecting you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This agreement is needed and expected, but its great degree of generality requires clarification, otherwise we do not really know what we are talking about, or even it may prove dangerous. I'm thinking about art here. 14 to 31, where innovation is concerned, the symmetry of the transmission of research results. If you read all these articles, that's how much they show. What is a symmetrical transmission of research results? As we know, in Australia we have many scientists of Polish origin or even Poles invited there with huge intellectual possibilities. Therefore, I think it is very important that following this agreement follow the next resort agreements, which we will know, because only then will it be some whole guaranteeing Poland a great (Dawn), the expected benefit. Your marshal, one sentence, if you please. Otherwise, we must be very careful that it does not turn out as in a passage of the agreement with the United States, where we cannot at the moment, I will say so colloquially, to get out of certain tax provisions that burden the Americans of Polish origin so much that often their pensions are passed entirely on to taxes, even though these people worked after 20 years. I would therefore like to draw attention to the need to clarify not only the passages, the whole of this law. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u60	Member, that was a long sentence. Thank you very much. Catherine Ueberhan, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that Mr Braun is no longer here, because I would add to this community the value that we already have marital equality in Australia, so that I hope that Poland will go this way. Back to the ratified agreement, there is also talk of economic cooperation, strengthening cooperation in the field of employment and social affairs. Which way are we going? Does this also mean easier obtaining work permits for Poles and Poles going to Australia, easier obtaining visas? In what time can we expect, when, specific sectoral agreements related to this issue. Two more things. It's a question of research. It's in the contract. Did Poland cooperate in researching the vaccine against COVID-19? [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the media reports, I know that in Australia they are quite advanced. It is also about cooperation in the field of environmental protection, climate protection and the prevention of natural disasters, which are also mentioned in this agreement. In the event of further natural disasters, such as bush fires in Australia, will the Polish government send aid to Australia? Unfortunately, this did not happen last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u62	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u63	Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members. The Left is very pleased that the government of Law and Justice, the right-wing Polish government, wants to do something wise with the European Union. We are also very happy that he wants to do something smart with a country where women can decide about themselves, their pregnancy, and even all citizens can decide about their lives. But we have questions about concrete things: Do we want to fight terrorism together and promote peace and security? What does the record mean about the transfer of our personal data? Will this personal data be transferred to the Australian government, Australian police or Australian companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u65	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! Mrs. Marshal, in reference to your comment that my use of... But we are at a different point, my fellow Member. Could I ask you not to review my statement? Madam President, we are asking the government questions about ratification of the agreement. Yeah, let me ask you a question. In reference to your comment that using female forms makes you laugh, I'm going to say that we obviously have a different sense of humor. The use of female forms is a matter of the most serious and recognized cultural and civilization standard in international fora... Member, but this is not the point of order. ...which, in the context of our debate on international cooperation, has a particular dimension. In your statements, you may. I understand that these are vital problems for you, unlike the subject we're discussing. It is the UN and the European Union that fully implement language standards. Member, do you want me to turn your voice off? In answer to your question, will I be using female forms until the end of my term, I will say yes. I could make an exception for you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. ...respecting your sensitivity... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in a language, if you would speak to me, respecting my sensitivity: Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u66	Thank you very much. Time's up. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, will answer the questions raised. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u67	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start with work permits, visas. In this respect, there are no problems in Poland's relations with the Australian Union. As far as sectoral agreements are concerned, the most important of them, which you mentioned, is trade, has already been negotiated. I hope that in the near future you will be able to ask these sectoral questions on specific areas in the context of the ratification process of the agreement. Then we can also talk about these analyses. I would point out that I did not tell the committee at its meeting that such analyses were not available. Then we can also say that in the case of imports of coal from Australia these are really small quantities without any significance for our mining potential. Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u68	Don't bother me, don't make this difficult... I'm gonna have to submit a motion to the ethics committee. ...because I'm gonna have to... I'm a free man, a free messenger. I have the right to comment and speak. I'm not saying bad words, I'm talking about. Yeah, well, I'm really asking you not to bother me next time. Member, please take your seat. Please take your place. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016 (prints No 305 and 361). I would like to ask Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u69	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union Committee a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. High Izbo! New Zealand is one of the key partners not only of the European Union, but also of the Republic of Poland in the Asia-Pacific region. We are developing cooperation with this country on economic policy, trade and investment and security policy. We work together on international issues in the fight against terrorism, and we work together in the field of science. This is a very important partner of the European Union, a very important partner of Poland, therefore ratification of this agreement is in the interest of the Republic of Poland, it is in the interest of the European Union, because it serves citizens of all our countries. I would like to stress that the aim of this agreement is to increase cooperation between New Zealand and the European Union to a higher level, to strengthen the partnership in such a way that the country is one of the most distinguished in relations with the European Community. It is worth investing in cooperation with New Zealand, because it is a very forward-looking, fast-growing partner. High Izbo! It can only be regretted that it took the government four years to prepare a draft ratification bill, but better late than never. The joint committees unanimously recommend the adoption of the draft Print Act 305 without amendments. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u70	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club on the Law and Justice of the High House will be presented by Mr Sylvester Tułaev. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u71	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law on ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. All this was included in the Seym printing No 305. The rapporteur discussed this proposal in detail. We also discussed the scope of cooperation in detail at the meeting of the Joint Committees. I would like to point out that the project concerns the extension of the scope of economic and trade relations, as well as cooperation in the area of justice, home affairs and cooperation in combating terrorism and cybercrime. The Agreement also provides opportunities for cooperation in areas such as environment, climate change, sanitary and phytosanitary issues, research, innovation and information society, education, culture, tourism, energy and sport. The agreement includes a number of titles. I would like to draw attention to Title V: Cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security. This title states that the parties, on the one hand, the European Union, on the other hand New Zealand, will develop cooperation in civil and commercial matters, in criminal matters, commit themselves to strengthening cooperation in the field of legal assistance. The Parties also reaffirm their commitment to combat international crime and corruption, illicit drugs, cybercrime, money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, the Member States of the European Union and New Zealand undertake to readmit their nationals residing illegally in the territory of the other party. This title also regulates consular protection issues and includes personal data protection declarations. I would like to point out that both the European Union and New Zealand have committed themselves to working together to promote, peace, stability and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region. The agreement is very good, very important, highlighting our relations, relations between the European Union and New Zealand, as well as very important and necessary cooperation with Poland. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask for the Law and Justice (the bell) to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u72	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Tomasz Głogowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u73	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The duration of the epidemic must not, of course, mean the cessation of diplomatic, international relations, hence the first reading of the Act on ratification of the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and New Zealand was included in the order of the current Sejm meeting. Although, of course, it is regrettable that this order does not contain a report on important resolutions adopted by the Senate more than 1.5 months ago giving real help to entrepreneurs struggling with the consequences of the economic recession, providing regular tests for doctors or parents of older children who are more than 7 years old. This agreement drawn up in 2016 in Brussels between the European Union and New Zealand is, of course, a framework agreement full of general provisions which will then be completed. But this is an important document because it was an important step in launching the negotiations of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and New Zealand, which started in 2018. The Agreement significantly extends the scope of economic and trade relations, cooperation in various areas such as justice, home affairs and the fight against terrorism. The Civic Coalition Club supports the adoption of this law, thus ratifying the agreement between the European Union and New Zealand, although it is surprising and regrettable that up to 3.5 years it took to prepare this simple law, as I understand it, to decide to ratify the agreement. Poland treats New Zealand as an important partner in the South Pacific region, which is working to ensure stability in the region, in the Asia Pacific region. This agreement will facilitate cooperation between Poland and New Zealand on issues such as climate change, agriculture, ecology, transport and bilateral cooperation at different levels. It will undoubtedly promote the development of contacts between Polish and New Zealand societies at the level of universities, local governments, associations, various civil society organisations. It is also worth mentioning that in New Zealand, in a small country, there is a relatively large Polish community, estimated at about 7 thousand. People. Surely these people can play an important role in relations between these two countries. It is worth mentioning these fellow countrymen at a time when they decide whether they will be able to participate fully, so far, in the presidential elections. I hope that the idea of eliminating Poles abroad from the presidential election will not succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Gdula will present the position of the Left Club to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the Left's position on the agreement between the European Union and the countries of the European Union and New Zealand. One might wonder why this is an important agreement, why it is important that we sign a contract with a country that is almost exactly on the other side of the globe. But it is an extremely important act to build a unique relationship today. Because today we are dealing with two very negative trends in the world. One trend It is that countries are closing down, they are convinced that they can conduct their own policies against the virus, conduct their own economic policies, conduct their own defence policies. This is a very negative phenomenon. And this agreement shows that we are going in a different direction with the European Union. The second point is that it is increasingly popular in the world to think in terms of the success of arbitrary power, i.e. that arbitrary power outside of legal standards, beyond human rights, is simply more effective, because that's the brutal world we have. Better is the power that first thinks about what to do and then adjusts the law to it. Unfortunately, we also have such trends in Poland. I'm really sorry about this. This agreement shows that we can go in a different direction, not think in terms of particularism, not think in terms of human rights violations and circumvention of the rules of law, but support each other in different regions of the world, so that values such as the rule of law, human rights, but also environmental issues or security issues combine in such a vast network different countries that have a similar culture, and people who think in a similar way. And that's why this law is so important, because although New Zealand is on the other side of the globe, it also feels the effects of the climate crisis, it is on the other side of the globe, but it also has terrorism issues, it is on the other side of the globe, but the politicians who rule there, and the political culture that prevails there, are the rule of law. We should build this kind of relationship, support each other between countries of this type in the world. There's no Grzegorz Braun here. See, here's the thing: when you don't need it, it's full of it, and when you need it, it's gone. Grzegorz Braun presented yesterday such a completely extreme interpretation of how we are to cope. He said that Poland should be isolated, leave the European Union because Małopolska has been developing for 500 years. Perhaps it was developing well for the ancestors of Grzegorz Braun. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My ancestors worked for free in Małopolska, they were Małopolska peasants who built the prosperity of this nobility, of which Grzegorz Braun spoke with such conviction and anointing. So let's not go this way, build human rights and international relations. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u76	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, on behalf of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another type of agreement and actually a report in the form of a draft law that the High House will vote for some time in relation to relations and cooperation between the Union and its Member States and this time New Zealand. The agreement was drawn up quite a long time ago, because in 2016, so that it waited quite long for the ratification process. It seems to me that New Zealand, although it may not be the most important economic and political partner, is an important country in the region, also important for Poland's cooperation with the region and countries that are located there. The aim of the agreement, which is of a framework nature, which is also mixed, as it combines the competences of the European Union and the Member States, is of course economic cooperation and political cooperation. But there are also other elements that concern, among others. the issue of enduring e.g. technical barriers to trade. What does this mean for companies that do business? As far as technical barriers are concerned, they know very well that they often prevent any trade at all. Moreover, there is a question of access to the public procurement market. Where there is no open public procurement market, like in the European Union, we know very well how difficult this access is if there are no standardised international agreements on this issue. Moreover, there is also the issue of international crime, terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction - it seems to be such a slogan - or possibly combating cybercrime - it has no boundaries and it is extremely necessary, or sustainability issues. At the same time, I would also like to add that the important issue in terms of the element of international trade is agriculture, because New Zealand is a large producer in terms of agricultural products, in particular milk and its products, but also meat, and it is also a serious competitor for countries such as Poland, as well as the European Union. Therefore, the balance in this trade and the building of rules here is also extremely important. But there is also cooperation in education and culture or the issue of dispute settlement. On the other hand, I would like to stress very much the importance of countries such as Australia and New Zealand in terms of the promotion of human rights, which I stress, stability, resolution of disputes in such a region as. Asia and the Pacific. It seems to me that the European Union and the Member States, including Poland, need such partners there. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will support this bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski will speak on behalf of the Confederacy circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are ahead of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part. During yesterday's joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs, I asked the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, to answer three questions. First of all, according to the schedule, we are one of the last to ratify this agreement. Is there any reason for this situation? Mr. Secretary couldn't answer that question. Secondly, the question of milk. As you know, New Zealand is the world's largest milk exporter. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14 is a provision: the Parties reaffirm their commitment to cooperation within the WTO in order to achieve further liberalisation of trade. And in the following paragraphs we talk about cooperation in agriculture. In the context of the last words of the Minister of Agriculture, that milk imports are a lack of patriotism and that the willingness to profit over helping others, I asked if anyone had analysed the situation in this regard. The answer was similar to that in the case of coal in the case of an agreement with Australia: it is only a general agreement, details will be discussed separately. I will repeat what I said when discussing the previous agreement: This is not convincing us at all, because the details will be determined on the basis of a general agreement. And these details will be compatible with this narrative, and since we do not have, as the secretary mentioned, detailed analyses, what this might mean for the Polish state, under no circumstances should we ratify this agreement. However, there is another interesting point in this agreement. It's about art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2, which reads as follows: The Parties reaffirm the need to support the globalisation process, which is beneficial for all. I have to ask this once again officially: Is this the official position of the Foreign Ministry? I didn't hear that answer yesterday. The answer was that this is an agreement of the European Union, not of Poland. But I apologize if this goes through the Polish Sejm, it will be the official position of the Polish state, and it will be at the moment when the main promoter of the idea of globalisation, and your patron, the United States, is moving away from globalisation, saying that it is an instrument that strengthens China, when the pandemic has shown clearly and clearly that there is a reversal of globalisation in favour of sovereign national states. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs convinces us to ratify a document in which it is said that globalisation is beneficial for everyone. Really? I have the impression that the subordinateness to the European Union is so great that no one has the courage of anything, not even the biggest non-Polish national interest nonsense, to question. It's sad that we have the Foreign Ministry. In view of these and many other doubts, the Confederation will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u80	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes the statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. Come on in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Excuse me, I'm gonna ask a little late question. I'm going to ask them because the discussion was about New Zealand and Australia. There was talk of a community between such distant countries and Poland. Well, I'd like to draw attention to one little thing. The average intelligence of Australian aboriginals is roughly equal to the intelligence of a child with Down syndrome, and no one in Australia thinks about excavating aborigines. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u82	Sir, I will no longer... This is a scandal, Marshal. Scandalous words. I'll be honest with you, I'm jammed, too. Another question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal, I believe that the words of my previous speaker should be very harshly assessed, because they were scandalous words and requiring the reaction of the Senior Convention. What's that, exactly? You can't really say things like that in parliament. Absolutely striking to anyone the words of this speaker should not rain. However, I have a question because, of course, New Zealand is a country farthest from Poland, so economic contacts are probably difficult for this reason too, but I would like the Law and Justice Government to benefit from the experience of building a good environment for entrepreneurs under this agreement and good practice, because New Zealand is one of the best conditions in the world for doing business and one of the lowest rates of corruption. I would like the Law and Justice Government to import these values first into the Polish system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please also reply in writing about the activities of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. What measures have been taken to enable Polish companies to invest there in the years 2018 and 2019? Thank you. And mutually: What actions were taken in Poland so that New Zealand companies could also invest in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. I don't see a messenger. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u85	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to express my outrage with the words of Mr. Korwin-Mikke. He seemed to want to be funny, but the joke got so far that he came out of it insulting human dignity and human rights. They're outraged... Don't let him try to joke anymore, 'cause it's just a rude thing to do. I would like to ask the government, Minister, about one very simple thing. Two years ago, President Andrzej Duda paid a visit to Auckland, Wellington, New Zealand, where he announced the opening of economic relations, establishing cooperation, new dynamics. I would like to ask if any of the effects of this visit can be quoted today, if anything has changed, has happened. And the other thing. Have you reached your consciousness, yours, I would say, your beliefs, the words that the President was greeted, whether you are ashamed of your anti-immigrant policy, when in 1944 a group of children received help from the New Zealand government and shelter in New Zealand (Dawn) and the Polish government absolutely departs from it. Did it arouse any reflection in you, or has something changed in this matter? Thank you. In 1944 it was Britain, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u86	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u87	God bless you! This community of values again, Minister. Please enlighten me on this matter. I've already noted that we have hell on earth in Australia. Hell for the weaker, the smaller, those who can't even speak in their defense. New Zealand is following exactly that trail. Last year, Parliament - the only nice thing in New Zealand that Parliament is much less numerous - voted for the legality of asking death on request. It doesn't matter how the criteria were formulated. This is supposed to be a confirmed referendum this year, but no one expects anything but a party with a rather common applause of this barbaric solution. And abortion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since the beginning of this year... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u88	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Marshal on the stronger side of this case. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much, sir. Yes, sir. So the question of a community of values between Mordor and Hobbiton. Now you have the floor of Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement currently concluded with New Zealand refers to enhanced cooperation in the field of environmental protection. That's very good. I wanted to ask if the government was going to benefit from the wealthy experiences of New Zealand. This may particularly concern the transition to renewable energy sources. 77% at the moment energy in New Zealand comes from renewable sources. The country has rich fossil resources, natural gas, coal, brown coal, firewood, but the government's strategy is to move to renewable energy sources. By 2030. New Zealand wants to give up completely... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] I'm sorry. I turned it off by mistake. I'm so sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, good. Thank you. New Zealand wants to give up coal completely and in 5 years' time 90% the energy produced in New Zealand is intended to be renewable energy. This is done by legislative means and this strategy makes electricity cheaper for consumers, for the population and for the economy. Will we benefit from these experiences? My second question is about animals. New Zealand was the first country in the world to consider animals compassionate. I would like Poland to go this way too. Finally, a question from a different point concerning Polonia. There's Polonia in New Zealand. Will this Polonia have a chance to vote in the next presidential election? Will the government take into account the needs of Polonia in New Zealand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u90	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Title V of the Agreement reads about cooperation in the field of justice, freedom and security. The Parties are to develop cooperation in civil, commercial and criminal matters as well. My question: To what extent will this provision be applied? When can we expect specific sectoral agreements related to this issue? Does this mean that court judgments will be respected and recognised on both sides: in New Zealand Polish and Polish in New Zealand? And whose judgments will this involve: whether it is civil, or criminal, administrative, will proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk now has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u93	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start at the end. As regards matters relating to justice, judicial, civil and criminal cooperation, I would point out that a number of countries in the world are joined by three types of cooperation agreements in this area. This is about agreements, first, concluded between the Member States of the European Union, second, concluded within international groups, as in civil matters, the Hague conference on private law, but also thirdly, bilaterally. What the execution of civil and criminal sentences is supposed to look like in relations with Australia or New Zealand or with other countries is always governed by these agreements. As far as common values are concerned, Mr, for me these are democracy, the rule of law, the issue of civil society. There's a law of the stronger. These are the basic values that connect us to New Zealand as well as Australia. And I hope we agree on that. There's a law of the stronger. Is that what you support? On the other hand, if we are talking about milk, I would like to draw attention to what I have already said at the committee's meeting: milk import is not a question of a bilateral agreement between Poland and New Zealand. It's not a question of the agreement we're talking about here. Once again, I am going back to what I said earlier: this is a general agreement. The details won't be different. Indeed, as the Member said, we have here a declaration of cooperation in this area on various types of products. I would like to point out that, with regard to the import of milk, firstly, a common specific, sectoral position is agreed on, in this case on the milk we are talking about, within the European Union... She won't be any different from the general one. ...secondly, there are specific discussions, in this case, which you have said, e.g. at the WTO. In other words, what the Union will propose must also be agreed by the Polish Government within the framework of the WTO, in talks on milk. And only on the basis of the consent granted by the Polish Government will the Union be able to negotiate and sign such a milk access agreement from a country to our market. So without the consent of the Polish government, nothing will happen. When we talk about regulating specific areas or the entry into force of sectoral agreements, it is a matter of separate negotiations each time. This agreement was actually negotiated a few years ago, while you missed one aspect, namely it has been in force for three years. It has been applied provisionally since 12 January 2017 as the formal requirements for its entry into force between the European Union and New Zealand have been met. We are now ratifying it because we have three agreements, and I would like to point out, as they have been discussed in turn today, concerning the countries of the same region. We have therefore dealt with the issue comprehensively and therefore, in a kind of package, we are presenting the ratification of these three agreements. I would like to point out that the issues of trade relations between Australia and New Zealand with the European Union are very similar. Therefore, the ratification of one agreement at one time, the other at another could give rise to different perturbations, and so we have this problem solved. The same applies to, as was mentioned, an important trading partner of Poland, namely Singapore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u94	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018 (prints No 346 and 362). I ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees of the Polish Sejm, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Commission on European Union Affairs, present a report on the work on the examination of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments. As rapporteur, I would like to say that, firstly, the joint committees have recognised the validity of this agreement, secondly, that the conclusion of this agreement under Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is justified, as is the reference to Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5). The agreement is an extension of the current 2006 agreement, which was also concluded in Neuhardenberg, on strategic environmental impact assessment issues. The agreement referred to environmental impact assessments. It should also be pointed out that this earlier agreement, dated 11 April 2006, as well as the present agreement submitted for ratification to the High House, was drawn up on the basis of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessments in a cross-border context - this convention was drawn up in Esau on 25 February 1991, it is also called the ESPO Convention - and the Supplementary Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment in a cross-border context, which was drawn up in Kiev on 21 May 2003 and is called the Strategic Protocol. In fact, this extension of the contract in the new wording is based on the provisions and that agreement and that protocol. The joint committees considered the government's arguments on the benefits to the Polish party, which are precisely based on the signed agreement, which relate to various aspects related to the conduct of new economic or construction projects where environmental impact assessment or strategic environmental impact assessment is necessary. First of all, account must be taken of the fact that the Federal Republic of Germany is a federal State. In this connection, we often deal with slightly different procedures, legal orders in different lands. This is very important when it comes to the coincidence of investment in the border not only with Germany, but also with the various Lands. Therefore, all of these provisions of the Agreement are intended to serve the efficiency of procedures in obtaining environmental impact assessment, also to reduce costs or to reduce efficiency at all. During the debate, of course, the issue was raised, as far as the previous experience of various investors on the Polish side, that so to speak, fills the sense that the Polish state cares about Polish companies, Polish companies, Polish investors, who in this cross-border context make some arrangements related to this strategic assessment. Here, the grades are not quite positive. I think this calls for a certain revision, as I will say, because it has often been emphasized here that our neighbour in this matter is much more sympathetic to the entrepreneurs who undertake such investments and are investors from the German side. Thank you very much, Marshal. I state that the committees are asking for this bill to be passed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u96	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes this law. We will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Wow, bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u98	Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask Mr Mark Grunkle, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u99	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context. The law itself enables the President to do so on the basis of an article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution ratification of this agreement. Such ratification is in accordance with the opinion of the BAS, which considers it appropriate. This agreement brings many benefits to both parties. Firstly, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, the agreement seeks to regulate and improve the legal issues related to environmental impact assessment for cross-border projects and investments in a comprehensive manner. Secondly, it will allow local governments to carry out their projects more efficiently on both sides of the border. Thirdly, this agreement is an example of good inter-neighborhood cooperation confirming that our strategic partner is and should be Germany, and not just economic or commercial. Fourthly, the agreement also shows the benefits of being a member of the European Community, that we share the same legal order and that it is worth staying in the Union. Fifthly, the agreement will contribute to greater environmental protection, as with all kinds of investments the parties will have to look for solutions that eliminate or significantly minimise the negative effects on the environment. In conclusion, this agreement is important, necessary, socially justified, the ratification procedure is in line with our constitution, which is why the Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u100	Thank you very much. Now Mr Jacek Czerniak, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left on the governmental draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context. This concerns the contract signed on 10 October 2018, print No 346. In its statement of reasons, the Council of Ministers considered that the appropriate procedure for ratifying the Agreement was Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The agreement was drawn up on the basis of the provisions of the current 2006 Agreement, the Esau Convention and the Strategic Protocol. Chapter 1 of the Agreement contains and defines the scope of application of the Agreement. Chapter 2 of the Agreement sets out the procedures for assessing the environmental impact of planned activities. Chapter 3 of the Agreement sets out the procedures for the strategic environmental impact assessment of projects and programmes. Chapter 4 is a common provision. The binding of the agreement, in accordance with the position of the Council of Ministers, is to take place by ratification with the prior consent of the Act. The mechanisms which are contained in the agreement, and which are primarily related to environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments, are among the basic legal instruments for environmental protection, which reflect the implementation of the principles of prevention and foresight in the investment and planning process. They imply an obligation to assess the potential negative effects of the planned investment and strategic measures. It is about environmental impacts and then the need to apply solutions effectively to prevent and minimise these impacts. These two procedures, which are set out in the contract, shall be carried out for anyone, which is worth noting, a planned undertaking which may have an impact on the environment, which is either a construction purpose or any other interference with the environment, consisting in transforming or changing the use of the site, including the extraction of minerals. Ladies and gentlemen! The Left Parliamentary Club supports the position of the Joint Committee, the Foreign Commission, the European Union Committee. It is in favour of the draft law on ratification of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u102	Thank you very much. Now Mr Andrzej Grzyb, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I would like to say that we support the bill on ratification of the agreement between the Polish Government and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context. I have, of course, presented part of the argument as rapporteur, so I will not repeat it, but I would like to point out that, although we are signatories to the Esau Convention, the implementation committee of the Esau Convention recommends that bilateral agreements be concluded in such a way as to facilitate cooperation between neighbouring countries in terms of environmental impact and strategic impact in a cross-border context. Therefore, the issue of cost reduction, which was highlighted by the government in fulfilling this agreement, or of shortening the procedure, among others. by identifying the competent authorities to be requested to obtain individual consent or the process of coordinating the procedure, e.g. strategic environmental impact assessments on the German side, as I pointed out, this federal agreement does not always make it easier, or shortening the investment process for the investments undertaken are important arguments which indicate that we should support this draft law, realizing that the practice of implementing this agreement really determines the efficiency and results obtained. Here, I would like to stress this, we hope that the Polish government in these relations will fully support all investors, both local investors and investors, which will be companies, so that they can realize the expected interests and obtain the expected permission in due time and without unnecessary expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u104	Thank you. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before us is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context. This is definitely the worst of all the deals we're dealing with today. I'm gonna cut to the chase. Border investment can potentially be torpedoed by the German border community. And we're supposed to agree to that? Really? Germany no longer has further needs in the border area. It is us, the Polish side, we want, we can, we should make investments. The mine in Turów, the Gubin-Brody energy complex. It may not arise, but it should be our own, Polish, sovereign decision, not dependent on another country. Or, perhaps above all, the adaptation of the Oder to the international level of the road, and it is known that Germany opposes it. Why do we want to give them weapons? What's the point of this deal? I ignore the fact that in the Oder case, a representative of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping should be at the committee meeting, and not only that he was not there, he will probably find out after the fact that there is such an agreement. Naturally, there is no loss analysis and no potentially lost profits. In response to my four questions on this subject, I learned that this is a contract between two neighbours and there is no need to analyse profits and losses. And one of the main arguments behind the contract is, and here I quote: the Federal Republic of Germany will be obliged to translate documentation from German into Polish, and it can count from several hundred to several thousand pages. As the director of the Climate Ministry said, this is a big problem for them. You know what? That's when I broke down. If that's the main reason for such a deal, then we really have a problem. We already have a fourth international agreement today, for which there are no analyses available on potential profits and likely losses. Is this really how the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs works? After all, this agreement with the Germans does not give us any benefits, and it poses potentially high risks. Who traded it and for what purpose? I think that's a rhetorical question. I am terrified of this fact, and I think it can no longer be so, therefore I appeal from the Seymary to the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, naturally as if he were, or to the Prime Minister of Mateusz Morawiecki, but which, of course, does not exist, depending on which of you decides to dissuade Mr Jack Chaputowicz from being Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]] and call to this place anyone who knows what the Polish national interest is. The Confederation will, of course, vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u106	Nine Members joined the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun. I'm closing the list of requests for questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is the fact of extending over the territory of the Republic of Poland, quite directly, power by entities located, in advance it is this agreement that provides, outside the borders of the Republic of Poland, that does not disturb anyone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? This is the mechanism of this agreement, that decisions concerning investment processes, i.e. Polish life, at home, on their own, will have to obtain counter-assignment from German entities. The German state at all the signs of a fall (the bell) is still well organized... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the issue of protecting the environment, our resources, is beyond any discussion and rational regulation, rational agreements will certainly protect the environment for future generations, but I have fundamental questions. Firstly, in terms of taking into account the position of the social side. Of course, the agreement provides for this possibility, but on the basis of which the legitimate interests of the social side will be taken into account in practice, I stress that it is right, because there are also those which aim exclusively, for different reasons, to block investment. In what way, especially in the context of investments carried out by Polish companies, will the request that these really be taken into account and those blocking - not be implemented? Second thing. The Polish government is one of those governments in Europe, which most distrust Polish entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How this will increase the level of trust, because already at the beginning Polish companies in relation to the companies of our partners will be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u110	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In this House, there is broad consensus or almost universal agreement that this agreement is important, necessary and necessary. By the way, if you listen, even the absence of this agreement will not release us from compliance with the law in accordance with this convention with Esau. Assuming that this agreement will mostly be accepted by this House, I would like to ask the Minister to sign such an agreement with other countries. The explanatory memorandum states that we have already signed such an agreement with the Republic of Lithuania, while I have a question, for example. Czech Republic, Slovakia or Ukraine. Would it not be worth introducing such detailed solutions also in the case of at least three countries? If you have such knowledge, or maybe such agreements are in preparation, then please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about the article. 5. There is a matter of consenting by the other party to the implementation of the investment. It is the position of the exposed party, that is, the one that, in some way, bears the consequences of the investment. What's the appeal? If the party disagrees and at the same time someone has to decide whether it is just a voice of opinion, is it different in character? It's the first thing. In the initial part, in the so-called. the discussion is about the fact that the agreement concerns both investors and individuals. How is this entry to be understood? Is it so that individuals, so-called. Small business, if they want to make any investment to the slightest extent, will they also have to consult the opposite party? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As for the contract itself, I have no comment. I believe that it is very decently constructed and resolves many matters in the case of investors which have not yet been clearly defined. I would like to refer to the fact that the German side for its investors, this was touched by my colleague, has a completely different approach than ours. Namely, if the government of a given land or government of the Federal Republic of Germany considers that an undertaking is needed, it leads the investor by the hand of all institutions. However, with us the investor is often treated rather as an intruder, there are many unnecessary obstacles. Due to the fact that I am running out of time, I ask the following questions: When in environmental proceedings public administration offices, among others. Regional Environmental Directorates (Dzinek), Marshal of the Voivodship, will start treating the investor as a partner to be helped rather than multiplied difficulties? Thank you very much. Why all the necessary documents to carry out environmental... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...answers questions, translations, everything...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u116	Thank you very much, sir. I wish you'd let me finish, Marshal. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the participation of the social side in the creation of environmental impact assessments, I am full of concerns as to how it will be guaranteed and what it will actually be, given the experience of the previous term and how you have limited the influence of organisations and citizens in participating in environmental decisions under the law called lex. I also have a second question, a fundamental question about already functioning investments, e.g. on the German side, which undoubtedly have a negative impact on the environmental situation in Poland. In the Lubuskie voivodship the level of groundwater is decreasing, the lake plates are falling dramatically. I would like to know what impact the existing brown coal mine on the German side has on this. Does the Polish government foresee any claim for compensation (the bell) for this negative impact on the Polish environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u118	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This agreement is undoubtedly very important from the point of view of our participation in the great European Union, but also from the point of view of environmental protection. There's no doubt about that. My question is this. I'm from Szczecin, and the Odra River and the Odrzański programme are very important to me. My question is whether, under this agreement, existing activities have been analysed with regard to the preparation of this project. How will this agreement affect the further investments that are planned for the Odrzańska Waterway by 2030? After all, this is the amount of about PLN 30 billion, according to government plans. Second thing: Has the project of this agreement been previously consulted with local governments (Dzwonek), both local governments and regional governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our experience shows that relations with Germany are different, there are different situations. First, the Germans taught us that we should not invest in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship on the border, because there are ecological values there. Later there were various shoves in the Turoszowski Work due to our mines and power plants. We can't communicate in the context of joint investments in the removal of the Oder. In turn dust from the Ruhr Basin destroyed the forests and forests in the Jeleniogórska Basin. There's a question. Does this agreement allow us to solve common problems, or is it just a provision, or does it give us the opportunity - as my previous speaker said - to invest together, or does it give us the chance to dynamicise individual, economic investments by overcoming certain barriers to joint action to facilitate this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does this deal do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u122	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr. Michał Woś, Minister of Environment, now has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to start by saying that there's been a very deep misunderstanding about what this agreement is. Perhaps we should do more work during the committee's work. This is a misunderstanding on the part of one wheel, but there was also a lack of understanding in the questions. This agreement does not introduce anything new into the Polish legal order from the point of view of substance. Everything that is included in this agreement in terms of environmental impacts, procedures on the Polish side, all the actual activities to be carried out remain as they are. This agreement refers to our cooperation in cross-border proceedings, which already exists, to our cooperation with the German party in this particular case and directly reduces costs, speeding up procedures, that is to say, obliges the German party to apply certain terms which the German party has not applied so far. On the other hand, as regards a number of specific questions, cooperation with other countries, we are in the process of negotiating agreements with Slovakia and Belarus. We offered the same, similar agreement to the Czech side. There's no big response to our proposal. We do not have such talks with other countries, but we will also make such a proposal. As for the social side and entrepreneurs, once again, from the perspective of the social side, this agreement is beneficial because it accelerates action on the German side. On the Polish side, the procedure is maintained and there is a very friendly approach in these difficult issues. Thank you very much for this broad support for this important agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u124	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Government information on the situation on the credit market in relation to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. I'll ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! On 4 May this year. National Bank of Poland published quarterly information on:: Situation on the credit market - survey results to the chairman of the credit committees. The material discusses changes in banks' credit policy and demand for credit, which were observed in the first quarter of 2020, and bank projections for the second quarter of this year. The information was prepared on the basis of a survey, which in the first half of April this year. 24 banks have a total credit market share of 87%. According to the above publication of the National Bank of Poland, the banks surveyed already in the first quarter have tightened their credit policy in all segments of the market due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on economic activity. It should also be pointed out that in the case of corporate loans, the scale of the tightening of credit policy has been the highest since mid-2009. At the same time, according to this survey, most banks offered current borrowers a temporary suspension of loan instalments, so-called. It's a credit vacation. It is worth pointing out that the publication of the National Bank of Poland indicates that due to high uncertainty As regards the economic impact of the COVID-19 epidemic, the bank's responses to the projections for the second quarter of 2020 should be treated with caution. In particular, bank projections expressed at the time of completing the survey may not take into account relevant developments, including in particular the activities of public institutions which took place at a later stage. So the credit market works just like any market, there has to be a supply side, in this case These are bank institutions that lend and the demand side, i.e. consumers and companies that are looking for this credit. With so much economic uncertainty - this is called the biggest crisis since the so-called. the great crisis - the behaviour of banks, that is, the supply side on the market, is rational because the overriding interest of banks is to protect the savings they are entrusted to them. So the banks took a little step back. On the other hand, we have people or economic operators who take loans. Due to such uncertainty, this is also a rational behaviour where companies stop investing or reduce investment or consumers reduce consumption because the economic situation is unknown, so banks have also taken a step backwards in this market. And there was a loophole. This is the place for the activities of state institutions. As regards the supply side, it should be pointed out that the government has taken a number of measures to stimulate credit for businesses. In accordance with the recommendation of the Financial Stability Committee, the Minister of Finance repealed on 18 March this year. the Regulation of 1 September 2017 on a systemic risk buffer resulting in the abolition of that buffer for banks. This is a reduction in the buffer from 3% to 0%, a reduction in capital requirements by about PLN 30 billion, resulting in an additional credit facility of about PLN 40 billion. With regard to the introduction of instruments to finance companies, it is worth pointing out that the Minister of Finance has amended the de minimis regulation, which allows guarantees to be granted up to 80% of credits. This is an increase from 60% to 80%. The amount of guarantees foreseen for 2020 is 20 billion, which will give the possibility of additional loans of about PLN 25 billion. In addition, a liquidity guarantee fund was established in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The amount of the guarantee for the liquidity fund is PLN 100 billion, i.e. an additional loan of PLN 125 billion can be granted. In addition, the law on the system of development institutions was amended, which extended the activities of the Polish development fund. The Polish Development Fund has prepared a shield for micro companies, which employ from one to nine employees. This shield includes funding of PLN 25 billion. Moreover, the shield for small and medium-sized enterprises means an additional loan, largely non-refundable, for PLN 50 billion. Moreover, when it comes to shields for large companies, we are talking about funds of PLN 25 billion. In addition, we are still talking about the so-called. the supply side, i.e. that the loan should be available on the market, and besides the government, another institution, i.e. the National Bank of Poland, has taken some action here. In March and April, the bank reduced the reference interest rate to 0.5 percentage points, i.e. the loan and money on the in-bank market became much cheaper (the bell), reduced the minimum reserve rate from 3.5% up to 0,5% , which will give 40 billion additional funds, liquidity, loans, and also increased the interest rate of the reserve assets to the reference rate. Here we say that the actions of state institutions providing a supply side, i.e. the availability of credits on a powerful scale, have been carried out. Now let's talk about the demand side, because there's also a demand side. Minister, you've run out of time. And he said no about it. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: A number of tax-based solutions have also been introduced. In order not to extend, I will remind only the most important: exemption from ZUS contributions for 3 months for micro-enterprises and self-employed, exemption from half of ZUS contributions for 3 months, parking benefits in the amount of approx. 2 000. zł, co-financing for employees' salaries, farmers' benefits, welfare benefits. This makes the situation of those interested in the loan much better. To highlight all these actions, I would like to give a few figures showing that the loan portfolio for enterprises at the end of 2019 is PLN 383 billion in the banking sector. Please note that all BGK and PFR activities allow loans, to a large extent also non-refundable, totalling PLN 250 billion, i.e. with a scale of PLN 383 billion in bank portfolios, additional support is equal to PLN 250 billion. Not about that, Minister. So the government's actions allowed this gap that was created by the current situation to be filled with excess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u126	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u127	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The situation we are in is, of course, more difficult for banks than on average. First of all, this is due to the fact that paradoxically there is less demand for loans, and paradoxically, I am saying because this demand part is being met, and to a large extent, by government programs, cover programs. Here, this programme of financial shields implemented by the State Development Fund deserves special attention. This is the programme that entrepreneurs are currently using, very attractive, very efficiently implemented, a programme worth a total of PLN 100 billion: PLN 75 billion - for smaller enterprises, i.e. up to 250 employees, PLN 25 billion - for large enterprises. And, of course, this programme causes the demand for bank loans to decrease. Hence, among others. according to the results and development of the survey conducted by the National Bank of Poland among banks, it is actually the projections are that banks expect to reduce their profits by up to half, but still, most importantly, these are very important profits that translate into the security of the banking sector, which is the banking sector, is absolutely not at risk. This protection of the banking sector is possible, among others. thanks to the credit program of the National Bank of Poland and the State Development Fund. So it is very clear that both transfers of funds from the State Development Fund to companies and actions that relax the question of guarantees on the one hand, on the other hand the issue of interest... On the third hand, the interest rate on minimum reserves has been increased, these minimum reserves have been reduced. So these are the actions that meet the expectations of the banking sector. It is clear that here the conflict of interests between business and the banking sector is natural. The banking sector would like to lend as much as possible and as expensive as possible, because that is the result of its profits. The business sector, the demand side, would like the easiest and cheapest access to credit. Hence, these measures which the government has taken cause that there is a need for loans despite a very difficult period, also in economic terms. Thanks to the government, there's a need for credit. Of course, it is smaller, but - I stress once again - the security of the banking sector is ensured here. Here it is indeed worth mentioning and commending the activities of the Ministry of Finance, which amends the regulations concerning the granting of de minimis aid by BGK in the form of guarantees. This is extremely important for banks. I think that now, after the first quarter, if we take into account what is being implemented at the moment, particularly noticeable is the very high efficiency of lending by the State Development Fund, which I think is on an unprecedented scale. Many billions a day flow to entrepreneurs in the form of loans in the form of deadly parts - I stress once again - covered by the condition of maintaining jobs. This is very valuable, this is the real and real concern for jobs. These loans are granted within 24 hours. I think this is extremely important. I've been seeing a lot of entrepreneurs... We're gonna do everything statewide. ...who submit applications and have money in their account within 24 hours. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This, of course, can be ridiculed, but I think that thanks to the government working so well, jobs are maintained (the bell), the business sector is safe... And they all lived happily ever after. ...but the banking sector is also safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u128	Thank you, sir. Now you have the floor of Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition Club. Mr. Marshal, we'll ask for half a minute longer, because the Minister... But the Minister has special powers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Minister doesn't understand that we read the NBP report. Mr Kowalczyk does not understand that we are not worried about banks, we are worried about companies and employees, Mr President. [[Applause]] Both gentlemen do not understand that the financial shield, which was to be a cure for all evil, may turn out to be a nail to the coffin of the Polish economy, and certainly a significant part of it. I'll explain why. You're full of shit. The President of the National Bank of Poland and Prime Minister Morawiecki with great complacency tell about the irreplaceable amounts of cash. What are the facts? The facts are, Mr President and Minister, such - and it is the Minister who should tell us, reading the report - that the heads of the credit committees and the presidents of the largest state banks, those which were supposed to be good for customers, good because Polish, say: no more credit action. Small and medium-sized companies are without a chance at credit, because credit conditions have been tightened up in a very special way. And once the company is already affected by the crisis and the effects of the pandemic, it's on the bank's black list at all, it's not getting any credit. You'd have to ask why the banks do that and what they're gonna do for a living. I mean, banks live on loans. A former friend of the rice bowl, Prime Minister Morawiecki, provided his colleagues presidents and banks with earnings. How? If PFR issues 100 billion PLN of bonds in a few weeks, banks will be happy to buy these bonds. You took the money out of them. This means that PFR will completely push out loans to companies that should finance companies today, and will manage all liquidity, or 70 billion PLN. And he'll give it to his friends. What's the conclusion? The PiS has even bullied the credit policy. It seemed impossible. You have stubbornly pursued your credit policy because the BGK PFR is today a state-owned monobank that has taken all the liquidity of the sector. Today, the political nominees of the PS decide who they give the loan to and who they don't give it to. State-owned companies. And since PFR says 30% The companies don't get this help, which means you've convicted 30%. companies for bankruptcy, because they're not getting any more credit anywhere. What kind of company doesn't get credit? Even one who has a arrears in ZUS 27.30 PLN. Scandal! The companies thank you very much. [[Applause]] They're thanking the companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u130	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u131	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just shocked. Minister! You're telling us about some reports from 2019. You have a report from the NBP two days ago, which says that the credit action is suspended, that no one who has used the shield will receive a loan in Poland. And Mr. Kowalczyk, a faithful disciple of Mr. Morawiecki - you are fit for work for banks - comes and says that banks are in a difficult situation. Banks got liquidity, you gave them everything, and a man who has a closed barber shop today, a closed theater, a closed shop, closed, I don't know, his place of work, he won't get a loan, because it says here that no bank will give him a loan. What did you do for these people? How have you led to a situation where the Polish economy is in crisis and Polish entrepreneurs in crisis are unable to get credit? And who writes that? National Bank of Poland. And you come out here and you say you're worried about the banks. You guys need to figure out who you're representing here. Who is Mr Morawiecki, we know. The fact that he only thinks about banks, we know that. But the whole government shows us the 2019 reports and says it's okay. Did you notice that there is a coronavirus in Poland, and not since 2019, only since February, and that something has changed? Your institutions write it. This is an absolute scandal. We are dealing with a situation where we increase our own contributions in mortgage loans to 40% by state banks, all those who today are trying to obtain housing loans, who apply, sign contracts with developers, simply these loans They won't get it. And you're telling us about the 2019 reports, you're worried about the banks. And I'm gonna ask you what you're gonna say to 20-year-old people who are in the middle of a loan procedure because they want a mortgage. I'm gonna ask you what's gonna happen to the whole industry, what's gonna happen to all the construction workers who lose their jobs, because no one's gonna be able to borrow apartments. Unless you and your piss buddies make enough money to buy apartments with 40% of your own money. You know young people who have 200,000. PLN for own contribution? Do you know anybody like that? Because when I started working, I didn't have that kind of money. My kids won't have that kind of money for good morning. Stop worrying about the banks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who are you representing? You're banksters? [[Applause]] I haven't heard any more stupid things.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u132	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Messengers and Members! We probably feel the same way, because as I listened to the Minister and the representative of the PiS, I felt like we were living in two different worlds. Indeed, there was no discussion in any of your words and there was no mention of what was said about citizens, which is about entrepreneurs. The Minister has always talked about the fact that action has been taken to ensure that the overarching objective of the banks is achieved, so it is about profits and functioning, to reduce the buffer by decision of the Minister and to make an additional 40 billion in the market so that loans can be taken. But how does that relate to reality? I have the impression that you have not actually read what is in this report of the National Bank of Poland, because if the banks surveyed already in the first quarter have tightened their credit policy, then why do we need such information that an additional 40 billion credits can be taken on the market, since no one will be able to take this loan because it has been tightened, in short, credit policy. This tightening of credit policy is to continue in the second quarter - and so is the recommendation. Therefore, I would expect the Polish government to say what it plans to do in this situation. I also pay attention to what is written there. Business loans - in the second quarter the conditions of these loans will be very strong and very strong. That is why this question is being raised today. On the one hand, I think you know that there is a coronavirus, we have a huge economic crisis and we are facing very serious problems. What is the recipe for the economic crisis? The recipe for the economic crisis is investment, that's increasing consumption, that's the things that make the economy get excited, it's starting to regenerate. If there's no credit power, if there's a policy you're running, it's not gonna work. The question is, what are you going to tell the entrepreneurs today? We're tightening up credit policy. And you know, gentlemen and gentlemen, what is the most important thing for entrepreneurs today? It's just that the bank doesn't give them a deal, it doesn't stop the deal, it doesn't shock the conditions that they have to do some extra stuff, because today they just need cash for their current investments. Today, you want to tighten up your loans for mortgage and housing loans. My question is, what does the construction sector in Poland say? What's the point and logic here? In the situation in which we are in today's situation, if the Poles in this panic actually collected money from banks, because they were afraid, if they have any investment plans today, it should rather be facilitated, given the opportunity for this loan to be taken so that this apartment of the young man whom Mr Nitras spoke about could buy and not even make it difficult. Because actually today these banks are saying, "Okay." The own contribution to the apartment is no longer 10%. That's 30%. You can tell me, gentlemen, who's got 30/40% in cash today. To pay as your own contribution and then take credit for it? After all, this is a complete reversal. Another thing is in general the issue of business and loans, which are so important to them, in general the functioning of the entire public administration in Poland. You didn't say anything, even if it was the situation of local governments, because in this whole idea there should also be an idea of what to do when it comes to the budgets of local governments, which today have no influence with PIT, with CIT. There's nothing in those shields so far, you don't say a word about it. Perhaps it is worth that the Polish government should, in short, guarantee such loans for the functioning of local governments, those which today simply have a problem with the epidemic. You didn't say anything about it. You didn't say anything about it. I am really shocked because the whole discussion is only protecting the interests of the banks, not protecting the interests of Poles (the bell), Polish companies and the whole society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u134	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u135	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You're used to it. You've gotten used to us and Poles being empty-headed. Paper will take it all. Any word can be spoken. No one is responsible for saying false words. That is why I think I will start with two statements which were, in fact, on the official website of the President of the Republic, the representative of your camp, whose re-election you are so desperately seeking, also with non-legal methods. What did he say about the situation of Polish companies, what he said about his own involvement in helping these Polish entrepreneurs with the threatened circumstances caused by the epidemic or first by the epidemic threat in Poland, i.e. the limitation of their business activity by the state authorities in relations with banks? Well, on 12 March, that is, the day on which the epidemic was spreading in Poland, on the day on which the first victim of coritos died in Poland, President Duda met in the Presidential Palace with the Association of Polish Banks and representatives of the government, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Poland. As I say, once again, I reached for the Presidential record. At the time, the president made the following declaration: First of all, the situation of borrowers - all those who have loans today - are paying them back. We talk about individuals as well as entrepreneurs and companies. Therefore, we are talking about mortgages, housing loans and loans that are converted into foreign currencies. I have asked these institutions in the banking sector. It is necessary to create such conditions that repayment of the loan may be suspended for at least a few months, so that anyone who is in need, who is in such a situation that repayment of the loan is a problem for him, can turn to his banking institution, to his bank, to the creditor to not repay the loan for several months without consequences and to make it very easy. It's not necessarily about the complicated forms you were talking about, but about the Internet or the simplified procedure. 6 weeks later, on May 1st, Mr President decided to give his programme speech to the so-called. the programming convention. What did he then have to say to entrepreneurs and individuals, borrowers? He said: Look how they treat you - although the banking sector, as he noted, has good results in Poland today - compare the state, how this bank or other bank behaves. Ask your friends and friends. Maybe it's worth saying in the bank: Thank you very much, I'm moving my bill to another one. I'm not still interested in having my money with you. Yes, I have to keep it with you, I know I have a loan with you, but what I don't have to keep from now on, and you won't be making money on my job and money, because you're not worthy of it, because you have no honor and you left me in a difficult situation. Yeah, we know the advice: take credit from another bank, do it yourself. This is exactly your responsibility and concern for Polish entrepreneurs, who do not need beautiful words, do not need good advice, such as your president gives, but need very specific help, and not only in the form of cheap loans from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, but also in the form of a commitment, as necessary, to coerce, commercial banks, including state banks, so that the repayment of loans, both capital and interest payments, are frozen for the duration of the epidemic state, at least for that time, of this real crisis. This is a neutral operation for the state budget. He doesn't require a penny from the Prime Minister or your government. This is even a situation that is relatively neutral for banks, because they carry a recapitalisation of their profits for several months, but this is a fundamental issue for Polish entrepreneurs and Polish companies. When they are deprived of capital support, left alone with difficulty in repaying loans, it carries the risk of both mass dismissal and bankruptcy. Often they are companies built from scratch. As you are talking today about the need to protect Polish capital from foreign acquisitions, it is this activity that you expose them to the greatest risk of being taken over (the bell) by companies that benefit in other countries, including Europe, with enormous support... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u136	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government gave us information about the situation of the banks. And what didn't the government tell us? He did not present to us the Act on Credit Vacation, announced by Deputy Prime Minister Emilewicz, which is not in the Chamber. Let us remind: I was the first Member here during the night-morning session on the anti-crisis shield to mention to Prime Minister Morawiecki, former bank president and a man from the banking sector who, as a banker, advised Prime Minister Tusk for many years, and only later he got involved with Jarosław Kaczyński and was nominated as Minister of Finance, later on as Prime Minister, I reminded and reminded the Prime Minister that the anti-crisis shield imposed obligations on everyone: on citizens, on entrepreneurs, on administration, and there is only one sector in Poland for which no new commitments are imposed. It's the banking sector. Is that a coincidence? It seems that no, all the more so that the man supported by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, at least, or perhaps associated, has already been nominated for the current authority as President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and no one other than he has proposed to introduce a year's credit vacation. I'm the one who offered to introduce a six-month loan vacation. Vice Prime Minister Emilewicz seemed to suggest that the government would make a three-month free credit vacation. Where's the bill? Where did she die? Why are you fooling us? Why do you provide us with general information that any professional can read on any economic service, about the fact that banks are well, have reserves, can count on the National Bank of Poland to save them, etc., etc.? What kind of eye soap is that, and what are the generals? Let's talk about the substance of the matter. At the moment there are harvests for banks, because many entrepreneurs, many citizens have a knife on their throats and you can do what banks like the most, i.e. charge extra fees, e.g. for the deferral of instalments, or - it is already an extremely shameful practice - to annex contracts in an adverse way. And some banks do. What does the government do? Nothing. What does the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection do? Nothing. The same applies to leasing companies. I wouldn't talk about it if I didn't get a call from entrepreneurs and they didn't warn me that this is the kind of process that's going on, that they're getting proposals that aren't to be rejected, and they have to accept them, otherwise their companies are going to go bankrupt. There are stories here about the fact that extra capital went to the banking sector. Who benefitted from this? Are entrepreneurs or the banking sector first? The rules should enter into force immediately - Minister, I am turning towards you because I see that you have looked at me, so perhaps there is a shadow of interest in what I am saying - which makes it impossible to change the rules of the game, prevent additional extraordinary fees for credit holidays from being charged, preventing the annexation of contracts in a negative way. [[Applause]] They should come in immediately. They've already entered other countries. Why isn't it here? Is it because we have the prime minister of the banker, or because the PiS is a party favoring banks, anti-social, anti-entrepreneurial, bad anti-crisis policy? I leave these questions unanswered. Everyone think about it and think about it. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to make a brief reference to the psychic situation that we've been dealing with since last night regarding electoral regulations. Turns out two gentlemen are gonna figure out what the Supreme Court is gonna tell us. Does anyone imagine the same situation in the American Congress that two congressmen are going out and saying what the Supreme Court is going to declare? Of course it is. It's completely unimaginable. You have made your rule of power and holding puppet elections of bodies such as the State Election Commission, the President of the Republic of Poland, who, when you agreed that there would be no elections, stood next to us yesterday and held a pre-election debate. The question is whether, after the debate, like others, he found out that the elections would not be held or whether he knew in the course of the debate. You've made a puppet Constitutional Court, and now the Supreme Court joins the puppet bodies. This is all ridiculous, and it's only because you don't want to use the constitutional rules that allow the election to be postponed by three months without amending a bill. Why are you doing this? The answer is simple: to raise the level of political conflict in Poland. You think it's cynical to calculate that you're going to benefit from it. Hopefully you will lose on this, because this cynical game of political moods in Poland, the security of Poles and political rights of Poles is a game that goes beyond the standards of our system, beyond the standards of decency, beyond the standards of the constitution, for which you can and may be responsible by the Court of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u138	The questions were raised by 18 ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We heard here that the government, together with the National Bank of Poland, flooded the banking system with liquidity and now the government is waiting for banks to lend. Well, the situation is very different, Minister. All the liquidity that you pumped into the banks went to buy government bonds and Polish Development Fund bonds. The National Bank of Poland report clearly shows that access to loans, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, is getting worse, that there are more and more restrictions and restrictions. It's not about pumping liquidity into banks' well-being, it's about banks being used as a vehicle that transmits money in the form of loans to the economy. You guys don't do that at all. So I have to ask you this question: What is the government going to do to get the whole amount of money from the banking system (the bell) in the form of loans to Polish companies? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u140	Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u141	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You're worried about banks, and we're worried about small entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs. We are worried about the salt of this land, about people who are the strength of the Polish economy, the most affected by the pandemic, passing through the torture to reach for subsidies within the shield. May I remind you that these subsidies had although to a small extent offset the losses they suffered as a result of the pandemic. However, in order to stay on the market to keep jobs, companies must continue, even if they continue to produce or provide services at the current level. They must have access to credit lines, but it turns out, Minister, that banks refuse to lend to companies that reach for subsidies. I don't think anyone here understands anything. I do not want to believe that bankers do not distinguish between aid or subsidies intended to protect jobs and working capital or investment credit. It's simply impossible, Minister, and yet the banks are holding back the loan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That they make commercial banks like that, maybe there's some way you can understand... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition Club... Mr President, please step out of the podium. It's anti-Polish, anti-human...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u142	Mr President, you're out of time. You had a minute. Finish up and get off the stand. Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u143	Mr. Marshal! I don't know if I'm gonna make it, but I wanted to ask you if you read the NBP report. Because your speech lacks a response to the decision or assessment that has been made in this report. Exacerbation of credit criteria, lack of creditworthiness. All of this does not guarantee that entrepreneurs receive loans and the economy. Earlier signals said that half of the companies didn't get help because there were tough rules. If they have support in the shield, they won't get credit. If they have any bad credit history, they won't get credit. Increase of own resources and requirements related to credit capacity - no possibility of receiving credit, no housing+. Guarantees and guarantees for large companies. Long-term procedures. I'd like you to say NBP report and today's business problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are the bonds for banks, or were they aimed at loans for the market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u144	Thank you, Member. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This gap in the crisis market is to fill the PFR changed by all cases and he has in various ways to support Polish entrepreneurs. They're supposed to be transparent, rational actions. And unfortunately, I am very concerned about what this is going to look like, given the actions we've done so far and the few stories we've lived with regard to the PFR. Joining New Jaworna Tauron Group - 880 million, the investment was to be made in 2019. Mr. Pavel Boris had his breasts out, I remember that. And you can't see the ending. The second example is saving the Bydgoszcz Pesa. PFR took over the company for 300 million. It was supposed to be an optimization of production, it was supposed to be an expansion to foreign markets. The company is in a dramatic situation today. And that was a good-for-nothing thing. As Polish entrepreneurs will be supported by PFR, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, this is going to end badly for all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u146	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u147	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fact, business liquidity will determine how quickly we will emerge from the crisis, how many companies will survive, will be able to continue our business and keep our jobs. The fact that banks care about their own interests and want to generate profits at a limited financial risk, that they are tightening the financial share, is natural, but that the government wants to use the difficult situation of Polish companies to further politicise the banking sector and the financial market in Poland, is simply scandalous. Unfortunately, the truth is also that my office has a massive grudge against entrepreneurs who are denied funding from the PFR. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what percentage of the proposals in the State Development Fund ends in a positive decision, because a large number of entrepreneurs are refused because of the short time or the level of turnover. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not what we should be focusing on today, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u148	Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The pandemic of Coronavirus destroys the Polish economy. A lot of entrepreneurs are standing on the brink. The most affected were those who worked in the trade and industrial sectors. Only in trade in Poland did this decrease amount to a month to a month of 10%. Entrepreneurs have problems, revenue goes to their heads, to their necks. They must be able to reach for the leverage, get some help, get a lifeline. On the other hand, the NBP report shows that in the second quarter banks are forecasting a tightening of credit policy in the short- and long-term credit segment for large and small and medium-sized enterprises, attention, on the largest scale since mid-2009, since the crisis affecting Europe. And you, Minister, say that the situation of those concerned... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u150	Thank you. You didn't have time to ask a question. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You said, Minister, that the actions of the government and other institutions associated with this allow additional lending or an increase in credit by PLN 250 billion. Maybe they do. We're not gonna check it out today. But so what? The credit action has actually been kept to a minimum. Why does it exclude micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises that are applying for aid under an anti-crisis shield? This should be additional support, not total exclusion. Secondly, why do companies that are in crisis have no help from anywhere? And thirdly, mortgage loans It's not just an increase in your share. The procedures are extended and many additional certificates are requested. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are particularly important in the Polish economy. They should be an object of special concern by the rulers. In addition to the beautiful words at the next press conferences, you have not developed any functional solutions for this sector. Do you have any idea what kind of situation restauranters are in right now? The catering industry in many banks is blacklisted and does not receive turnover credits. And so what if people struggle desperately for survival, what if they try to pay their bills and not fire their employees when they go to the bank for help and bounce from the door? So what if President Kowalczyk is bragging about credit schemes with a guarantee of de minimis collateral from BGK, since most of these proposals are rejected and this does not work? Maybe it's easier to just hang a card: small companies do not support, restaurants don't support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They won't get their hopes up. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u154	Thank you, Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Reinforcing credit terms is like giving a sinking economy of stone to your hands instead of handshaking. Really, without liquidity entrepreneurs will not start production again, they will not start investing, they will not start stimulating the economy again. What stimulates the economy most is also the development of housing. If young people suddenly grow the amount of their own share of 10% up to 20%, 30% or 40% They really don't have a chance to invest in their apartment. The apartment is furniture, the apartment is floors, the apartment is the development of industry and the development of the economy. If banks are acting irresponsible at the moment, it is the responsibility of the government to provide such a right that it does not happen so that the Polish economy really has a chance to get out of its knees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u156	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think they're all asking each other these questions. Where's the finance minister? Where is Mr. Tadeusz Kościński? We haven't seen him in months. [[Applause]] He's a fictional character. We haven't seen him in months. We haven't seen him in months. He's a literary character... He's gone abroad. Entrepreneurs don't see him, I don't know, Mr. Morawiecki hid him somewhere. That's the key question. This is where the finance minister should be. It should be and answer the basic questions: Why aren't loans that are really needed by companies that are on the verge of collapse, on the verge of bankruptcy? Minister Kościński should answer this question, why the PiS government protects the interests of banks, not entrepreneurs. And the Minister of Finance should get up here and tell the bride and groom that he's going to collect 30/40%. own contribution to your first apartment. It's impossible. Don't do fiction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start helping people who need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u158	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thought that today we would really be talking about liquidity for companies, about providing loans and not being able to change contracts for individuals, but the highly respected President Kowalczyk came and began with the fact that PiS is worried about banks today. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Let's talk about the problems of companies, talk about people's problems, not about the problems of banks. You gave the banks liquidity. What happened to the liquidity? Minister! Where did the liquidity go? I understand that there are still foreign banks, but after all, your banks - those that you have taken over and filled with the denominations of Law and Justice - have stopped credit action, changed contracts for people, for God's sake! What are you doing? What are your people doing? It wasn't supposed to be like this. Minister! I'm asking for a clear position. What measures does the government intend to take for the banking sector to allow liquidity into the economy? How are you going to save them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] our economy and people's finances? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u160	Mr Wiesław Boj, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u161	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In view of the fact that we are talking about a situation related to the functionality of banking, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister on the basis of which the funds lost to municipalities were reimbursed as a result of the dubious and forced restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank based in Sanoku. As a result of the compulsory restructuring, Bank Nowy BFG SA was established, which took over PBS' assets and liabilities and the financial resources of customers, including municipalities and other local authorities. In view of this situation, are we not simply faced with the bank's nationalisation as a result of this forced restructuring? I wanted to point out that if it had not been for the compulsory restructuring carried out by the Bank Guarantee Fund, the entire operation would not have had to take place and PBS would have acted unreservedly until now by implementing the recovery plan under the supervision of the KNF. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the current government has found 70 billion to help the banks... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u162	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u163	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! Don't help any more, just stop interrupting. Don't save the country, the nation from a crisis of thought pandemic caused by a sensitive virus. Don't save any more, just don't push it deeper into this crisis. Release the nation from quarantine. Unleash the Polish entrepreneurship, which you are not a savior at the moment, but an executioner. No invaders, no occupations, no distractions have done this work. You're pioneers. You have cooled the Polish economy to the temperature of death cold and now you come - so that I do not say it in the wrong hour - as an American cavalry on white horses, to carry some rescue programs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then free the people from quarantine and that will be enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u164	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We were going to talk about the situation in the banking sector, but PiS is only practicing propaganda again, again only and only talking about alleged aid for Polish entrepreneurs. Maybe it's a word about all those financial, economic shields. You've done it cleverly. For micro-entrepreneurs - release for 3 months from the ZUS. It doesn't cost the government anything. It's a little fluid in the ZUS. But each of us in the family, among friends, among friends has a micro-entrepreneur, so he hears that there is some help. On the other hand, when eating lobster accompanied by expensive wine, where Prime Minister Morawiecki says that Poles should work for a bowl of rice, it was decided that they would help banks, and today we heard it from President Kowalczyk. And second of all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're gonna take two entrepreneurs who are gonna be on TV... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] These billionaires are gonna say that the government is helping them, and the rest of them... When am I gonna learn what a minute is?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u166	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. You're welcome. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the 1990s, the Polish leftist government helped banks because between 1993 and 1997 98% Polish banks were bankrupt. This House in closed session awarded billions to banks that Mr Balcerowicz of AWS later sold. In 2007, the European Union financed over EUR 6 trillion of banks in various European countries in the banking crisis. 6 trillion euros. And neither the European Union nor the Polish government have an instrument to introduce legal solutions in crisis situations so that these banks can somehow get involved in solving the problems in which resolution should involve themselves. Has the Polish government taken the initiative, and with us, the legal one, and in the European Union (the bell) to resolve this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u168	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This government information we are currently debating is such a shameful document that it has not even been published on the agenda on the Parliament's pages. I am terrified that we are currently debating the stability of bank profits, the financial liquidity of banksters, presidents, while we are not talking about the financial stability of the Polish citizen. We've got a pandemic, people are losing their jobs, they're losing some of their earnings, they're losing their liquidity. Their businesses, their small businesses are failing. After all, we are dealing with a tragedy in companies on the beauty market, in gastronomy. All these small businesses are going down. And we're doing this to keep the bank's profits stable. What is the government going to do for this statistical citizen who is currently losing his job and losing his credit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand there's a fight going on to work for a bowl of rice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u170	Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, club of the Polish People's Party, excuse me, of course club Law and Justice. We'll take him in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think that the opposition is very sorry that 100,000 have not been infected in Poland. people, only a dozen thousand that have not died many thousands, several tens of thousands, only a few hundred people and that unemployment is not the same as in other countries of several percent, but at the end of April it is 5.6%. I know you're angry. And that's why so many lies and viciousness, so maybe these facts would have gotten to you, too. The question was... Nobody cares about banks here. We just found that the banking sector is stable, and very good. But the government is very important when it comes to caring for entrepreneurs, I stress once again. These are facts. Buhaha. To protocol: buhaha. Financial resources that flow from PFR within one day as loans to entrepreneurs to keep jobs... The Labour Fund paid 300 thousand. loans for PLN 1.5 billion. From the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund (Bell) - over PLN 2 billion to keep jobs. That's why unemployment is only 5.6%. I know... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u172	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u173	Local governments, companies have EU funds, EU projects. They need their own share to co-finance these projects. They're in a difficult situation. Is there any chance that they will receive certain preferences in terms of loans or other forms of aid in terms of their own participation? Secondly, with regard to the conditions for suspension of payments, banks will not do so for free. What incentive instruments will the government use to suspend banks' payments? And thirdly, when it comes to guarantees for borrowers, what did the government, the National Bank of Poland, do in this regard? Example: The European Central Bank or the European Commission have put in place certain instruments to encourage increased credit pools or the creation of different credit instruments that have simply given (the bell) an opportunity for interested companies to obtain these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u174	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u175	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to correct a lot of the information that came out here. Firstly, we are discussing the same report from the NBP in 2020. Please read it carefully, because this is a dry summary report, which analyzes a survey that was sent to banks some time ago. I would also very much like to stress the sentence which has been omitted here, and which is said in this report: "In particular, the forecasts of banks expressed at the time of completing the survey may not take into account relevant developments, including in particular the activities of public institutions which took place at a later stage. So this picture, which is presented in this survey, is de facto obsolete because these tools, these instruments that the government presented, were not yet available. I would like to emphasise something again, because earlier because of the time constraints I may not have been able to explain it clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that liquidity has been provided to the banking sector is one element. The second element is credit risk. Banks sometimes fear lending because they're afraid to take credit risks. And what's in that direction? Did the government do it? In this direction, the government did it to provide a guarantee. What does that mean? If the entrepreneur wants to take a loan for 1 million PLN, the Polish government says: I trust him and guarantee that this entrepreneur will return it and if not, it will be 800,000. I'll pay for it. It means that the Polish government trusts Polish entrepreneurs. What is the amount for these guarantees? 120 billion PLN - says the Polish government - I will pay for Polish entrepreneurs if they do not return their loans. 120 billion PLN. I would like to stress that the entire portfolio of loans for companies is PLN 383 billion for companies in Poland. So in the case of almost 1/3 Polish government says: I will return for Polish entrepreneurs, if they could not. Another thing is the PFR programme. This is an additional PLN 100 billion, in addition to these 120, an additional PLN 100 billion. And of this 75 billion zlotys are loans not from banks, only loans from virtually PFR, banks are just a tool. Credit risk, which means that once again it is guaranteed that these entrepreneurs will return, takes PFR and de facto also the Polish government. And of these 75 billion for micro- and small- and medium-sized enterprises, the majority will be decommitted. In addition, 25 billion goes to large companies. As we sum it up, this is what comes out of 250 billion, which is the burden that the government takes on, guaranteeing for Polish companies. With portfolios of 383 billion - this is the demand of our economy for loans for companies - the Polish government says: 250 billion, I guarantee that Polish entrepreneurs will return, if not, I will return. It's hard to ask for something even bigger. I would like to point out that in many... I'm asking you to understand that. An additional, next initiative that the government is about to announce is a public investment fund to stimulate the economy. The Prime Minister will talk about this in the next two weeks. Also, please note that many things that rained, showing the image that is very bad, is not quite true. Of course, we have a crisis, the largest since 1929, and all countries worldwide are facing problems - and that needs to be said clearly. There's a storm in all countries, a storm. And there won't be any sunshine with us either. It's impossible. But please note that many of you considered the European Commission to be an oracle with which you do not discuss, and it is hard to argue that it would favour the Polish government, yesterday published forecasts that in 2020 economic growth across the European Union would be at 7.4%. all over the Union, and in Poland only 4.3. This is the best result from all countries of the European Union. Where did that come from? That's what I'm talking about. because of the fact that the instruments prepared by the Polish government have been taken into account. So please don't deny the facts, and we'll see it in the next NBP report, because this one kind of refers to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-07-sejm-11-5.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept the information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection, objection, objection, Marshal. We will therefore vote on this proposal in the voting block. Reason for objection. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 7 May this year. The meeting shall be adjourned until 14 May 2020 at the latest. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 13 min 10]]
