ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Health-- hour. 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 11.45, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 14. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Three Seas - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Development of Rural and Municipal Housewives - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Lublin Parliamentary Team - hour. 11, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - with an additional annual financial contribution to pensioners and pensioners, - amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, - amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, - the establishment of a Polish Science Day. The reports shall be printed in letters No 148, 149, 143 and 127, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws, print No 122. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners (prints No 118 and 148). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners, print No 118. The Sejm at its 3rd meeting on 8 January 2020, in accordance with Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 39 (1) (a) 2 and 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this project at its meeting yesterday, on 8 January, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Yesterday was a committee meeting, a discussion took place, and the effect of this discussion is in line with what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u4	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice, I would like to present my position at second reading on the draft law on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners. We're in the middle of a second reading. In fact, we are proceeding on this bill without amendments and this is very good information for the High House. The project submitted is the implementation of the announcements by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which took place in the Seym on 19 November 2019 during the exposé. This is a very important announcement of continuing support for the crowd of about 10 million pensioners who are taking a very important place in this area of our social policy. It is a social group of people who have basically completed their work, drawing on the fruits of their work. Retirement and pensions in Poland - I will not talk about the reasons, because they are long-term and very complex - unfortunately they are at a very low level. Therefore, in the context of the policy, we have placed a great deal of emphasis on the issue of the lowest pensions in order to pursue such policies as to ensure that the purchasing power of these cash benefits does not diminish. Over the past years, we have managed to raise the lowest pension by 25%. It will be 1,200 PLN from 1 March 2020. But we also have very good solutions for annual valorization. The biggest valorization that took place in the history of the valorization of Polish pensions was in 2019. A high rate of valorisation plus a quota value of not less than 70 PLN for a pensioner. The ceiling was the average pension. Today we are investigating a bill that is further support. He's still very needed support. We've adopted a solution that's aimed at an additional... But I point out very clearly - because the discussion during the campaign was very tense about whether the 13th pension would be one-off or permanent - that today we are introducing a permanent solution into the system. The 13th pension at the rate of the lowest pension - for all pensioners from all insurance schemes: whether it be common pensions or uniform pensions or compensation benefits or pre-retirement benefits for all. The solution is criticized by the opposition as if twofold. The first criticism is very political and very sad for our environment, because very bad words fell at first reading. Words: charity, humiliation of pensioners with such solutions or simply political bribery, electoral sausage, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in some way, so to speak, the language of politics. But we really will never build any good solutions for the pension system, which you are calling for - let's do something together - if you do not change the language of this debate. Mr Arłukowicz said that the Civic Platform must be ready for war. Good. Maybe politics is war, but there is a question of what instruments we choose and what goals we want to achieve. If the purpose of your political activity is to gain power for the very power, then you really do not deserve serious treatment in politics. You're leading... Club report. I'm acting on behalf of the club. This is not a report. If you are also at war in the area of benefits for pensioners and pensioners, please don't take hostages. Do not take hostages of people to whom we owe this position of Poland, at which moment Poland is located. That's the truth. We owe a great deal: raising the next generation of Poles (The Bell). The fact that they deserve respect and our concerted cooperation should be the most important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u6	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of the pension system and the responsibility for the amount and guarantees of pensions payments is very important - I am convinced of that - really for every government. I think that every government, as far as possible, tried to shape the pension system so that it would be safe. You cannot say that you were the first government to pay out or value pensions on a quota or on a quota-percent basis. Let me remind you: for the first time in 2012 it was the government of the Civic Platform and PSL with Minister Jolanta Fedak, who is now sitting on the benches, who introduced a quota-percent valorization of PLN 71 during the economic crisis, even greater than you are now. You did. In 2015 this was a value-percent value of not less than 36 PLN. So much for history. Speaking of equalizing opportunities for those pensioners who have the lowest pensions, I'm just going to give you one example. It was during your reign last year that the most pensioners who had pensions lower than your lowest pension, because as the Minister said yesterday at the committee meeting - I asked this question - these pensioners were About 300,000, really. There have never been so many pensioners who had lower benefits than the applicable lowest, which you have raised to 1000 PLN per month. But how much was that in your house? During our governments - as I remember - in 2015 it was probably 78 thousand. Back to this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Coalition with all its partners is behind the thirteenth pension. Yeah, we're gonna vote for the 13th pension. Extra. We also talked about her last year. Once upon a time, there was a debate in this House about a vote of distrust for the government. That's when we announced that we have this solution in our program. We will vote in favour of this solution. I'm saying it clearly, clearly, straight. But, ladies and gentlemen, there has been, there has been, and will never be our consent for you to actually withdraw these pensions from the fund you created last year, actually last year, in 2018. You said it was a disability fund. You've deceived people with disabilities. We're not authorized to do that. Don't lie to me. Minister! I have a question for you: When will you implement, as the new Minister, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal for which Members of Law and Justice sought in 2014? When will respite care be financed for carers with disabilities? Where are these apartments that eliminate barriers for people with disabilities? That's what the Solidarity Fund was for. But he's still there. The Member knows. You changed his name. This is no longer a solidarity fund to support people with disabilities, this is just a Solidarity Fund. No, don't lie to me. Those are lies. That's why today the Civic Coalition is making an amendment saying that we do not agree to 13 pensions, funeral allowances, any other benefits being financed by the Solidarity Fund... That's not the bill. Funeral benefits... Read the bill. ...which was intended to help people with disabilities. First countries carry out the judgment of the Constitutional Court you sought. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2014, the sentence passed, we left you a draft law, even financial resources, passed... That's not true. And why was that sentence? Because you broke the bill. ...your entire term of office, four years, you didn't do anything, you didn't execute that sentence. [[Applause]] How embarrassing are you? You've been looking for him yourself, and you haven't really submitted a bill in that term, and as for the fund that was supposed to be for people with disabilities, you're really taking it away from them. And it's still there. The richest are to pay tributes, but to those who are weakest, not all. Are we talking about this bill or are we talking about everything? The Solidarity Fund should support people with disabilities. The Social Insurance Fund is used to pay 13 pensions. And it is. And the state, by making such a pyramid out of the state budget, is actually breaking the spending rule. In the name of the responsibility for the state budget and the future of the pension system for this our consent (the bell) does not exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u8	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We maintain the position of the Left Club, which I presented yesterday. The supplementary pension project is a propaganda project, it is an unfair project, it does not respond to the expectations of the most deprived seniors and seniors. We will present today at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs an amendment on the establishment of the pension threshold to which this benefit is paid, so that this project will help the most deprived, and not give away money to people who have several, several thousand zlotys of pension today. Minimum pension does not allow single-person retirement holdings to reach the minimum social level. This is taking hostages through the state. That's how you take the hostages. People lack 171 zł per month to survive, to the minimum social, and you are talking about supplementary pensions. Where are these people supposed to get that money? The Left maintains its position. We will vote in favour of this bill, but we will make a proper amendment, while remaining inconvenient to the lack of social justice, which is a feature of this law. In a situation where you spend billions on government television, the Church Fund, the IPN, and you can't provide a minimum pension at a decent level, it's mismanagement, fraud, according to Urban's slogan: the government feeds itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u10	Thank you very much, sir. That's what the Left said. Please, Mrs Jolanta Fedak, the Polish Party... Yes, sir. I ask you to remain calm, ladies. Mrs Jolanta Fedak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Don't yell, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I wanted to maintain my previous position that we will vote in favour of the Act on additional witnessing to pensioners, so-called. Thirteen. But I would also like to draw attention to the applicants of this law, the government, that you bring the bill to the Sejm as usual at the last moment, and as usual you do not warn Members of what the sources of funding will be. But this is nothing, and you don't warn pensioners, citizens, from which sources you intend to finance this pension. And you can see how much emotion this case has aroused, the proposal to take money from one social group, passing on to the other, including the change in the name of the fund. After all, it could have been planned in the budget and paid out of the budget. It's really not that hard. Only that pensioners are here, seems to be the least important, the most important was, of course, a balanced budget and hence the various combinations of the last minute payment of this money. You're accusing the opposition that she's associated the payment of this 13th with the election. And how not to associate it, if it always happens before the elections, after all, the coincidence of these events is absolutely clear. It's just stuff like that. [[Applause]] They only happen before the elections. I am also talking about this for this reason - and with some concern - to deal with the pension system together, which requires further important challenges. You're bragging about the Prime Minister's mouth that, in your day, it's something... I sometimes think that if it weren't for our time, it wouldn't be your government. You just couldn't even justify any law here if it weren't for the horrible and bad times I'd say. But these are times really different. I understand that some of the Members on this side may never have heard, perhaps even the majority have never heard of a bank such as Lehman Brothers, which fell and began a great crisis in 2008, but the Prime Minister, who prides himself on a careful education, who worked at the bank, should have at least a brief knowledge of what the problem of these governments was, and that the situation was diametrically different. You are now on the eve of the next pension and pension challenges and the 13th pension will not solve this. That is, next year we can expect higher inflation, says the National Bank of Poland, pointing to certain perturbations, but also to the statistical office, which points out that inflation can be as high as 4%. And I would like to remind you that this is before the energy price rises and before the trash charges rise, that is, the basic things that will certainly affect the purchasing power of these benefits. ♪ What we've got ♪ ♪ What The platform left and the PSL. The second issue, which should also be prepared, is the question of pensions which are losing value or are getting smaller because in 1999 subsidies to the Social Insurance Fund were cut. We paid pensions, which had very good valorization rates related to so-called. initial capital. At the moment, these pensions will be getting lower and we need to think about an indicator that will just pick them up. I propose to take seriously the project of the Polish People's Party regarding a pension without tax, which will be the right value for money in the same amount... Come on, Minister. Unfair society. ...in which some of you here have cut this grant in 1999 and will value these pensions, i.e. one-off they will simply raise them, because they will be unfairly low. And it is not related to the fact that pensioners worked less, inefficiently, but that this system simply to such a working system, firstly, does not agree, and secondly, that the rulers at the moment do not see how much the pensions of those who for various reasons do not have an internship or are not able to document this internship of work are growing. I'm telling you again. We will vote in favour of this law, but we also pay attention to the things that the government should (the bell) consider in the system work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u12	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u13	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam, you said here that the opposition should not take hostages. What, then, is 1200 PLN gross as the lowest pension? More than 1100. I actually said what we thought about this situation yesterday. Let me just repeat: what you want to give the pensioners at this point is just a political project. These pensions will, of course, be paid before the elections themselves. On average, less than PLN 3 per day for the pensioner. However, there is no absolutely serious discussion about real changes, namely the taxing of pensions that we are proposing. And, you know, the most cynical thing about you is that at the same session of the Sejm we are sitting on PLN 2 billion for Polish Television. Is that bad? The Polish Television, which lives from advertising, which lives from our subscription, which is an extra tax on Polish Television, and which, as you can see, no longer works with this propaganda which is needed at a level such as to keep you in power all the time. And if you were to transfer this 2 billion to pensioners, each of them would get a raise of about 130 PLN. That would be a real change. That would be something that would make a lot of difference. Meanwhile, the party's leadership decides to pay PLN 2 billion for propaganda rather than to transfer them to pensioners. Unfortunately, these are not good solutions. Not at all. What you're doing is pure propaganda. The Confederation wants a serious discussion about the taxation of pensioners. We want a serious discussion to raise the tax-free amount to 12 times the lowest national one. That would de facto tax pensioners and we are waiting for the ruling party to grow up. In the meantime, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u14	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to ask the question. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point you should ask the PiS government about a comprehensive senior policy. We all know very well in this Chamber that such a comprehensive senior policy does not exist, and seniors at every step of the way, at every meeting, ask for extended queues to specialist doctors. They complain about the lack of constant rehabilitation, the chronic lack of geriatric geriatrics and branches and geriatric divisions, the lack of support for single seniors, the increasing queues for rehabilitation tours and sanitarium care and low pension benefits, the value of which proposed by the rulers today will be eaten by astronomically great inflation. Actually, this senior is nothing. He won't get any more after the valorization that you're about to propose today. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a ridiculous treatment of 9 million Poles. That's not how you take people seriously. Today, the government needs to capitulate and say honestly that there is (the bell) no comprehensive senior policy. And that's a scandal. Take these people seriously. We're asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u16	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The first question: women in the year 1953, the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the issue of the regulation of their pensions. That's what 44,000 are waiting for. Women. A gift from your government. The amount we are talking about is about PLN 600 million. You've pulled out of this. Prime Minister Morawiecki in the end of his previous term had to think about it. Question: "Have you considered giving money to these women?" Which the Platform took from them. Second thing. I asked the Minister Swede if there was a loan agreement and what the Solidarity Fund will give back the money - last year's solution - to the Demographic Reserve Fund. I am waiting, Minister, and you are all waiting in this House. And in the end, don't tell me this is a 13th pension. It's a one-time benefit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would ask you to speak honestly about these matters. This is a one-off benefit for pensioners. And the Rentists. All the retired people asked me to say, "This is a one-off benefit, and it's a charity." It's a one-year one-off. It is alms, as retired people say. These questions, especially contracts, what you're going to be giving away... Time. Thank you very much. 'Cause if I had the cash free, I'd be giving it away and moping people like you guys are giving anything. That's what the Poles make up. [[Applause]] Retired people are Poles too. Thank God Poles can count.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u18	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will vote for every bill that brings any money to seniors, pensioners and disabled people, because this group needs it the most today. And anyone who has encountered this group, not only through literature, but by eye, knows what a disabled person means, knows what it means to a person who needs help. Minister, I am very sorry that you will use this fund for people with disabilities. I spoke on this issue yesterday. Even the bill does. But I'm gonna move on. I'm gonna move on to my lowest pension. After all, we know what the lowest pension was made of. Well, at that time, today's pensioners and pensioners were concerned, Poland was rebuilt. Not all the money went to payouts then, not all of them. They were developed by today's pensioners and pensioners (The Bell) in the form of property. How much was going under the table? This property is sold, it was sold. There is a form of company - the owners of this today are - I am finishing, your marshal - companies of the Treasury. Isn't it worth allocating funds from these companies of the State Treasury, among others. for the raises, for this 13th pension, what do you call it (and I'm close to that term that the Civic Platform is talking about)? And you have to use it, not oblige these companies to pay for the foundations. There's no telling what this foundation is doing with these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u20	Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Unfortunately, this thirteen is another example of giving one hand and taking the other. Thirteen pensions and funeral allowances should be paid by the Social Security Office, whereas the Solidarity Fund is to finance them by means of the Demographic Reserve Fund, the fund that was supposed to protect us from the impending crisis related to an increasing number of pensioners compared to those working. Morawiecki's Prime Minister doesn't care if he leaves us without pensions, without savings for a black hour. This is probably why the Prime Minister is so passionately encouraging Poles to save themselves for retirement. In the exposé we heard that you cannot abdicate. The PiS abdicates on our pension security in the coming years. That's not true. Not only does he run away from responsibility and obligations towards citizens - turning his back on taxpayers, he also takes with him the savings he has had for almost 20 years for the black hour that were collected in the Demographic Reserve Fund. This project is a desperate attempt at stealth patching (the bell) of a huge hole in the pension system. Unfortunately, we've all become hostages to your success propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u22	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll go back to the Solidarity Fund again, because I'd like it to sound good. What was the money from that fund supposed to go for? For systemic changes and four government programs: care services, rest support, care and housing centres and a program concerning the assistant of a person with disabilities. Resting aid is a very important thing. Its organization and funding gives the summa summarum huge savings for the state, because the person is not given to the 24-hour care system, only care is provided by the family. Reinforcement aid financed by the Solidarity Fund is the only chance of non-burning carers and continuing home care. All over the world, savings for the state in the form of investments in support of domestic carers are thought ahead. With us, remember, by 2050 the number of dependents will increase fourfold. How are they supposed to manage without these funds? In local governments, only 21% of the funds were used for a respite care programme this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local governments did not have a chance to join the programme because it was announced in the financial year. You will explain that the local governments have not used this money and that there are funds, but it is not because there is no need, only because the programmes were very short and were announced in the financial year, and the local authorities, especially the poorer ones, did not raise 20% of their own contribution. Thank you very much. It's obvious that people with disabilities and pensioners are the two most needy groups... Time, Marshal. Thank you very much, Member. ...but you can't take one to give the other if you don't have the money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the amount of the additional annual cash benefit proposed at the level of the lowest pension. Why, with such a good budget situation, at which the Prime Minister of yesterday's hour. 10 spoke so optimisticly here, why was it precisely with this good budget situation and at the same time the largest senior group of people who have the lowest pensions not applied, that no other indicator, a higher amount, was adopted, which would be a real one-off support for poor pensioners? Retired people harass me on the street and say, "Please tell me we don't agree that this is the 13th pension." Because it's a lie, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u26	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u27	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This benefit, which will be paid on the 1st of April, is actually compensation for the increase, for the cost which he gave to Polish pensioners of the PiS. I would also like to remind you all that the PiS, 224 members of the PiS, rejected the pension project without tax at first reading on 22 March 2018. Retirement without tax would be a permanent monthly benefit not taxed on PIT, a fixed additional income. At the moment, we are dealing with a one-off annual witnessing that does not meet the needs of the elderly, also the needs of the increases you gave at the beginning of this year. Let me remind you that the Energy Regulatory Office has agreed that PGE Trading will increase the electricity prices for 5,000. holdings of 19,5%. What does that mean? This means (The bell) that the real increase in electricity prices for pensioners will be 30/40% because this year there will be no compensation paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u28	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Please, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have good information for Polish pensioners today, because on the one hand we have an additional benefit in the form of a 13th pension, and on the other hand, in the next point, we have a valorization which will be from 1 March. This is very good information for pensioners. Yesterday, with the Minister, we had the opportunity to be among pensioners and after information that these points would be considered at the next meeting, there was a storm of applause. So that I think that's the answer to your allegations about what we're doing. And now, specifically, once again -- we have already told this speaker many times -- that the Solidarity Fund created by the Government of Law and Justice is not taking anything away from anyone, it is giving nothing. In 2020 in the state budget, as regards the Solidarity Fund, we have saved the amount of PLN 5110 million. These funds will go to people who are independent, people with disabilities. This appropriation is not intended to cover the cost of an additional 13th pension. That's what we want to use this money for. The programmes that were included in the Solidarity Fund, concerning both care and care services, care and housing centres, assistants of disabled people, are included in the state budget, are earmarked for this. They will be realized. The part is being implemented on an ongoing basis, and the part will continue to be implemented in the coming year. As regards the question of guarantees, the state budget is the best guarantee for payment of benefits, ladies and gentlemen. Social Security is fine. The Social Insurance Fund for 2020 is PLN 162 billion. These are the resources we're spending on... Paid contributions. Don't argue, just listen, because you don't listen, and then you don't understand what we're talking about. [[Game in the hall, applause]] No lectures. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Let me repeat: the state budget, the Social Insurance Fund, which finances our pensions - PLN 162 billion, this amount. All funds for raises, pensions payments, pensions are provided and do not threaten pensioners to run out of money at once. It's not gonna run out. The guarantee of payment of pension benefits in Poland is the state budget. At PLN 162 billion, PLN 161 billion is included in the budget for expenditure from the Social Insurance Fund. The U.S.S. is not a fund. The Social Security Office pays these funds, is the safest institution and we want this Social Security Office to last as long as possible because we have a guarantee that the funds will be paid. Madame, you are asking for an agreement. There's a deal. First repayment - in 2025, tranches until 2035, in terms of measures that are... And I asked for that deal. I'll explain it to you. But I'd like to have it. I don't know if you have to get it because the deal's on both sides... But they're not classified. They're not classified, but I'm telling you to... You're publicly accusing us of certain things, and you're the one who says the deal is. There's a contract, signed for 10 years, for repayment in instalments of the loan we borrowed. I'm gonna need that deal. If this is about the valorization that we're going to talk about at the next point, I'm going to answer at the next point. The issue of minority proposals that the Left has tabled. Raising the supplement from 1200 PLN to 1600 PLN is the cost of 5600 million PLN. There's no money in this state budget right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u30	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Your marshal, correct. Here you are, Mrs Skowrońska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u31	As for the speech of Minister Swede, Minister, you misunderstood me. Since we've been investigating the pension benefits paid last year and this year, I've asked for this agreement. You have declared that this agreement will only be, as it will be adopted - in the previous year - a law. The Lord has declared that I will receive it. Today, I'm surprised you're saying that I can't get it, or that you're trying to tell me what you said earlier. That's the first thing. Second thing. You didn't understand. In my statements and others it seemed that the Social Insurance Institution, the Social Insurance Fund, is our contribution money. You don't pay much. And if you were to value it or give money to pensioners instead of television, at least everyone would get 200 zlotys.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u32	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws (prints 117, 117-A and 149). I would like to ask Mr Adam Sněžkou to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, print No 149, on the Government's draft law amending the Pension Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No 117 and 117-A. At the committee meeting yesterday, the first reading of the bill, along with the government's own amendment, took place. This amendment proposes to modify the current rules for the valorisation of pensions. The project provides for the increase of the lowest pension, the total incapacity for work and the survivor's pension up to PLN 1200 and the lowest incapacity pension up to PLN 900. According to the proposed regulation, all pensions from the Social Insurance Fund will be increased in March this year. according to the statutory valorization rate, but not less than 70 PLN. The proposed modification of the valorisation rules will also apply mutatis mutandis to pensions of individual farmers, uniformed services and bridge pensions, teachers' compensation and parental supplementary benefits. The government self-regulation concerns supplementary benefits for persons unable to self-exist up to PLN 500 per month and increases the sum of benefits received by those persons entitled to the supplementary benefit up to PLN 1700. The amendment makes sure that such persons do not lose the supplementary benefit if their basic benefit is increased in accordance with the draft law. The government estimates that the financial impact on the additional costs resulting from raising the lowest pension to PLN 1200 and the guarantee to increase the amount of benefits by not less than PLN 70 above the statutory valorisation costs according to the projected ratio of 103,24% they will amount to PLN 1.3 billion net on a scale of 10 months. The cost of statutory valorization according to the forecasted indicator is estimated at about PLN 7.16 billion. The adoption of the principle of interest valorisation with a guaranteed minimum increase of PLN 70 will result in benefits paid under PLN 2160.49 per month being increased to a greater extent than if they were valued according to the current rules. This will apply to about 6200 thousand. recipients, including around 55% Retirement and pensioners receiving benefits from the Social Security Office, 100% pensioners taking benefits from KRUS, approx. 15% uniformed service providers and 100% persons receiving social benefits, as well as benefits and pre-retirement benefits. According to the government, increasing the amount of the lowest pension and guaranteeing the minimum amount of the benefit by 70 zlotys constitute real aid to the lowest-income recipients. The discussion at the committee's first reading was about the standard of living of pensioners and the impact of the proposed regulation on their situation. There was no request for a public hearing or a request to reject the project at first reading, so the committee moved to consider the draft law. Two amendments were tabled during this work. The first provided for raising the lowest pension, survivor's pension and pension for total incapacity for work up to PLN 1600 and the lowest pension for partial incapacity for work up to PLN 1200. The second amendment established a guaranteed minimum increase in the benefit according to the valorisation rate of PLN 100, in the case of a partial disability pension of PLN 75 and a partial pension of PLN 50. Both amendments were rejected by the committee by a majority and are submitted as minority proposals. The Commission adopted a draft law with no votes against with one abstention. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the adoption of a draft law from print No 117 and No 117-A. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u34	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements in club and circle ownership. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u35	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards a government project to amend the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. Since 2015, the Law and Justice Government has been working to constantly support seniors, pensioners and pensioners and systematically raise their benefits on a scale that our predecessors have not achieved. We pay particular attention to the increase in minimum pensions and pensions, because we want to improve the situation of the poorest groups. From PLN 50 to PLN 400 they amounted to one-off allowances paid in 2016 in addition to statutory valorization. It was received by 6.5 million people. By 13,5% the lowest pension was raised in 2017. This is an increase from 882 PLN to 1000 PLN. Value of benefits in 2018 was the highest in 5 years. In 2019 we applied the principle of percentage-quota valorisation. It amounted to not less than PLN 70 and the lowest benefits were raised to PLN 1100 gross. In total, under the rule of law and justice, between 2016 and 2019, the lowest benefits for pensioners and pensioners increased by around 25%, and after increasing their amount in 2020 this will increase by around 36% by the way of this Act. The proposal is yet another implementation of the government's commitment to care for the least-replaced. The lowest benefits will increase as follows: up to PLN 1200 in the case of the lowest pension, total incapacity pension and survivor's and social pension, up to PLN 900 in the case of the lowest partial incapacity pension. The minimum guaranteed increase in the benefit will be equal to PLN 70. Here it is worth comparing how the minimum pensions and pensions of our predecessors have increased. During the 8 years of the Platform and PSL governments, the minimum pension increased to just PLN 880. During the rule of law and justice, the lowest pension rises to PLN 1200. The real increase in the lowest pensions after one term of law and justice will be higher than during the two term of the Platform. The Commissioner from the Platform was just bragging that the Civic Platform ensured a minimum valorisation of 36 PLN. Madame, there is nothing to brag about. Law and Justice introduces programmes for seniors most in need. They are based on respect for this group of societies. We share the fruits of economic growth fairly, among others. through the "Emerity+' programme, guaranteed 13th pension. In this way we give a sense of security to nearly 10 million pensioners. In 2019 we allocated nearly PLN 11 billion for this benefit. In reality, pensioners also benefit from a tax reduction in PIT. The average annual profit for the pensioner is approx. 240 PLN. 56,000. people have been using the scheme since last year. A total of PLN 21 billion will be spent on the valorisation of pensions and the 13th pension in 2020. It is necessary to remind here that finance specialists from the Civic Platform could only say that - here I quote - on these promises that PiS has made, money simply does not exist. There isn't, and there won't be. Or they asked me where the money was buried. The Government of Law and Justice once again shows that real support is possible. The number of pensioners achieving the lowest salary is systematically decreasing. Compared to last year, it will decrease by 50,000. persons. The proposed law will increase the increase higher than the forecasted indicator to 6200 000. Retirement and pensioners. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice clearly supports the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. We will vote in favour of this project, which I also strongly encourage Members of the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u36	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens on the Government bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, seym prints No 117, 117-A and 149. The government bill provides for the increase of the lowest pensions, total incapacity for work, family pensions and social pensions from PLN 1100 to PLN 1200 and the lowest pension for partial incapacity for work from PLN 825 to PLN 900. In addition, this law introduces a valorisation rate of 3,24% However, not less than 70 PLN. All the sums mentioned here, of course, are given grossly. Because it is worth noting that the senior will receive much less. To remind you that it was the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL already in 2015 that introduced a new law on pensions with FUS with a percentage-quota value, which guaranteed an increase in benefits at a certain level. It is worth noting that we had a longer period when we had deflation. The Act under discussion today is to enter into force on 1 March 2020, with the exception of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Article 2 and Article 2 8, which may enter into force on the day following the date of publication pursuant to the draft. At this point, I would like to stress with all my might that it is absolutely necessary to support the most vulnerable social group today's pensioners and pensioners. Today it is almost 9 million people. It's a big group, which is why it's supposed to be systemic. After all, the economic idea of valorisation is to counter the reduction of benefits and thus prevent the decline in material living of pensioners and pensioners in inflation conditions. Particular attention should be paid to the specific statistics provided by the Central Statistical Office. Consumer inflation was as high as 3,4% in December 2019 on a yearly basis. Such an increase in price inflation surprised most economists, and constantly rising prices surprise us all every day. But this is only the beginning of a wave of increases, because in 2020 inflation will attack with a strong impact by increasing not only electricity prices but above all basic foodstuffs, chemicals and other costs associated with daily existence. It is worth recalling here that the prices of basic products and services have recently risen dramatically, and the proposed amounts of valorization that we are talking about are far too low and will not be able to cover the ever-growing, necessary expenses that seniors have to bear. According to experts' forecasts, inflation at the beginning of the current year can reach up to 4%, which means it will be the highest rate for many years. Consequently, it will reflect on the wallets of Poles, and the most important will be felt, of course, the least financially paid, i.e. pensioners and pensioners. Although we are afraid of high inflation, which will feed on the funds that will be paid to seniors from the proposed valorisation, we cannot allow for any further deterioration of poverty among our seniors. Therefore, I would like to inform the High House that despite the still insufficient support of Poles and Poles, the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform - Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens will vote in favour of the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, Seym prints No 117, 117-A and 149. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u38	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2019 more than 200 thousand persons charged from ZUS a benefit of less than PLN 1100 per month gross. Two and a half thousand. Seniors received benefits of less than PLN 100, of which every fifth with a value of less than PLN 10. It's almost the same as the ZUS pays to send this pension in the mail. Poverty among Polish pensioners grows avalanche and 85% The poorest pensioners are women. The government declares its readiness to take bold action to improve the fate of Poles. You can see how close you are to the fate of the elderly. Unfortunately, you can't see it in your bills or in your budget. You wash your eyes of the most needy, stealing money from their pockets, among others. just as you did, reducing social aid expenditure in 2020 so as to cynically give these funds as a 13th pension or a modest revalorisation which will immediately absorb rising food and electricity prices or access to doctors, because county hospitals are being closed under your rule. A one-off 13th benefit will not be enough for pensioners who are below the poverty line, and an additional bonus will be absolutely unnecessary for those who are well paid. 433,000. pensioners in Poland receive a minimum or lower pension. At the first meeting of the Sejm, the left brought a minimum pension of up to PLN 1600 and guaranteed this to all seniors regardless of their employment. Unfortunately, it was only yesterday that we realized that this project had received a number of seismic printing. We have therefore tabled an amendment to the bill proposed by you, which would raise all the lowest pensions to the amount of PLN 1600 and align them. Unfortunately, Members of the Law and Justice rejected this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. You say it's important to your family that you respect your elders and do everything you can to make them better. However, your proposed valorisation of the minimum pension still maintains the benefit below the poverty line. I wonder if any of you know what it means to stay a little over $1,000. A month's worth of zloty? What does it mean to choose between paying the bills and buying the drugs? The Prime Minister spoke yesterday about the courage of the government to meet the needs of Poles and Poles. So show that you really care about them and make changes according to your electoral declarations. Retired persons and rensits are entitled to retirement pensions and old age pensions, and this law does not give them those decent conditions and safe old age. Nevertheless, the Left will vote in favour of this project, but at the same time we are calling for a real increase in the minimum pension and the adoption of a law that we have tabled that guarantees a minimum pension of 1,600 PLN for everyone, really ending with poverty among Polish pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u40	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Jolanta Fedak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u41	Before referring to this bill, I would like to thank Minister Sweden for the words made here earlier, which indicate that the Social Insurance Institution is the only guarantee, the most secure guarantee of paying pensions to pensioners, as well as to future retired workers, because this is not the general opinion of the government. You remember - just a few days ago, Deputy Minister Marczuk had them tighten their seat belts to both pensioners and former employees who would simply not receive these pensions in the future. This person took care of, among others. Capital pensions, i.e. so-called "capital pensions'. PPK, and the transfer of funds from open funds, with OFE - probably this was one way of convincing the workers to put their savings there. So let me say this: the only real plant that pays a life pension in Poland is the Social Insurance Institution. And it's an insurance undertaking that also values this pension fairly, once better, once worse, depending on the economic situation from which you can't really break your stories about what we've done. We, and what the predecessors did. It is not that this is a linear situation and that every year we have to raise our pension by the same percentage. The valorisation rate itself states that it depends on wage increases and inflation. If the government smashes too much inflation, which is eating the income of pensioners, those who earn the least, then it is absolutely clear that these indicators should grow. It's absolutely clear. If we act in a different situation when inflation is low or even deflation, it is clear that these revenues are simply growing slower. I have already mentioned that valorisation should be higher not only because income is rising, although it has a strong impact on the fact that pensions are low, but also because we are dealing with pensions that are already deprived of initial capital and which are simply going to be lower. The government must do something about it, and I also draw attention to it here. But since it is absolutely necessary to value these benefits, we will be in favour of this valorization proposed here by the government which has placed these sums in the budget. Of course, I do not want to repeat over and over again that the amount of money spent on this quota valorization compared to other, less important, seems to be expenditure - here already this famous TV... This valorization could be higher, but the government chose this priority. He thought that she could be lower here, and, say, that's where the income needs to be replenished. Since the government is planning this budget and it is better than nothing, we will vote in favour of this valorisation. But once again, it is very important that we do this relatively quickly in a systemic way. A few years ago, we worked on a system that on the one hand would raise the lowest pensions, and on the other it also guaranteed the value of those pensions which are simply higher. It was so-called. alternate value: one year more quota and raising the lowest pensions, the second year more percentage, i.e. guaranteeing those pensions to pensioners, which were simply higher, so that they also did not lose purchasing power. And I'm simply giving you consideration to this system. Maybe working on such a system - together - which you are encouraging here would give some good results to reconcile these two sides. I say once again: We will vote in favour, but we ask that these are not empty words about some cooperation and smugness, but actually reaching out to the opposition and working together on the pension system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u42	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba is the first question to be asked. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u43	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the valorization of pensions and pensions, but we must also note that significant expenses in the income of pensioners and pensioners are private medical services. There is the latest PRM report, which says that Poles and Poles spend PLN 57 billion annually, taking into account medical expenses, on private medical services. CSO reports that 42% expenditure on private health care is expenditure on specialist doctors. If we have PLN 57 billion additionally spent by Poles and Poles, it means that on average every pensioner spends 1.5 thousand. PLN for private medical services, for visits to specialists, for rehabilitation, for consultation, for procedures, for operations. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that public health care (the bell) does not meet these expectations, and unfortunately there is a drain on pension funds for those services that are unsatisfied and which should be met by the NFZ and public health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the lowest benefits. Raising the lowest benefits not only by the rate of valorization, but to the guaranteed minimum, i.e. today it is to be 1,200 PLN, is absolutely right. Yesterday, I was just asking about people, about pensioners, who, however, have even less benefits than the lowest. From what the Minister said last year, it was about 300,000. I know that for various reasons, these people do not have a period which entitles them to the lowest benefit, but I would like to ask whether it would be worth considering separating from those who, for innocent reasons, are very random - for example. they suffered an accident and therefore had a pension - they do not have the period of entitlement to the lowest benefit. However, do not remove them from this group (the Bell) and not consider the lowest benefit of PLN 1200? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u47	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The opposition today has words full of concern for seniors, but I assure you that these are empty phrases. The increases in pensions proposed by law and justice after 4 years of our governments are higher than after 8 years of governments of our predecessors. For 8 years, the opposition raised the lowest benefits by a total of PLN 318. Members of the Platform today boasted about the proposed minimum increase in benefits at the level of 36 PLN. Really, dear Members of the opposition, there is nothing to brag about... 71 was, too. These increases, this percentage of valorization we're proposing, are definitely higher. We're building a systematic, comprehensive senior support program. Seniors benefit from the payment of the thirteenth pension and receive the fourteenth pension. With a real reduction of PIT 240 PLN will go to senior wallets. They take advantage of the program "Mama 4+" (The Bell) - it means 56 thousand, and free medicines for people after 75 years of age. Minister! Please answer the question of the difference in the amount of benefits. I'm talking about the finances that the Law and Justice government is using to support seniors in relation to what the Platform and PSL government offered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u48	Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u49	Thank you. Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's before... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? You're welcome. I just spoke in the previous item of today's proceedings. I said I'd vote for every bill that brings any money to this professional group, to pensioners and to those who are affected by fate. And that is true, the Left has requested that the lowest pension be PLN 1600. The state proposes 1,200 PLN. Minister! I would like to know if there is any chance of a raise or a change in the amount we are talking about, 1200 PLN, so that we can get closer as an opposition - as in negotiations is sometimes done - to this expected amount (the bell), and whether it would be possible to increase e.g. in this first stage up to 1,400 PLN and in the following year up to 1,200 PLN. And the important thing is, Minister, it'll come back to you. This will come back because pensioners and pensioners are primarily spending money on medicines. I'm a witness. While in the pharmacy, I often hear a request addressed to the pharmacist - I am finishing up, your marshal - to divide a pack of pills for leaves so that one leaf can be bought, not the whole package. This is the situation of pensioners today, regardless of whether the PiS is in charge or the Civic Platform as before. We live today and in today's situation we should meet people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u50	Mr President, it may be a little longer, but half a minute is too long. And Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Swed! Oh, dear. At our joint protests, on which you were present and standing next to me, you promised that people with disabilities after 18 years of age would eventually receive a decent social pension, which will be the lowest in the country, each year valued. My first question is, will you really fulfill that promise you made to a thousand people with disabilities and their families? Second question. I wanted to ask you if you'll finally calculate the social minimum for the family in which the person with disabilities is in it. Whether each year you will increase the income criterion to a supplement of 500 PLN or finally You're gonna take that criterion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u52	Thank you very much, Member. And please, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of the Minister of Sweden.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the valorisation of benefits for 2020. Once again, I'm going to remind you of the principles of valorization, because somewhere in this discussion, we're missing it. This valorisation is inflation and a 20% wage increase. There's more to it than that. Finally, the inflation rate will be announced at the end of January. Then we will know if this forecast we have in this year's state budget: 3,24 is up to date, and we will know the salary increase by 11 July. And then, by that date, on 1 March, when these benefits are paid, we will have a full picture of what the percentage of pensions will ultimately look like in 2020. And it is obvious that as every year valorization concerns this year, which has passed. Today we will not be deciding what inflation is going to be this year by valorizing, because we will settle this next year. There is no other way to determine inflation. So all these allegations that you are raising here will be discussed in 2021, as we will know the inflation rate for 2020. Today, there is an indicator that results from 2019 and that is what we will refer to. The question of the lowest provision of 70 PLN that we have accepted. In this room, we remember how the predecessors paid value in amounts: PLN 5, PLN 2 and lower. We give this guarantee 70 PLN. If we did not give this guarantee, the total cost of valorization would be reduced by PLN 1600 million. We add $1,600 million. Total cost of valorization - PLN 9100 million. What the Left proposes, i.e. raising the minimum pension to PLN 1600, entails an additional cost of PLN 5600 million, which simply does not exist in this budget for 2020. As far as traineeships are concerned, that is the point that you are asking - I will once again clarify it. The increases in terms of internship are the result, Commissioner, of what you have adopted. You've raised the retirement age of women, and you've also increased the internship criterion that entitles you to a minimum pension. Hence the increase in the number of people who for this reason did not acquire the right to a minimum pension. By lowering the retirement age, we have caused this criterion to be 20 years old again, and that is why there is now a lower number, not as in your case, when this increase was higher for women. And the second very important change that we've made is the pension of Mama 4+. We have embraced all mothers, possibly fathers, who have raised at least four children and who have not acquired any pension rights, the right to a minimum benefit. We set aside 800 million zlotys for this. We have over 56,000 today. the persons who have benefited from it. Almost half of them. These are people who did not have any pension benefits and can benefit from this scheme today. The rest of you have a minimum wage payment. As far as pensions are concerned, today we spend PLN 16.5 billion on pensions for total incapacity for work. These are the funds that we spend, and everyone who is on the pension because of an accident or otherwise has a guaranteed minimum benefit, i.e. in this case at least PLN 1200. All of this mechanism, which works, secures those who have the lowest benefits. So what we proposed, including this earlier item on the annual allowance, so-called. 13 pensions, in 2020 will increase funds to support pensioners at the level of PLN 21 billion. Of course, there are other programmes that we also spend on pensioners. This is about the programs "Senior+" or "Supervisory 75+" or medicines for older people over 75 years of age. These are all actions that also improve the situation of older people. Thank you. But you didn't answer my questions. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: For a social pension - sorry, just a moment - we are currently spending PLN 3800 million. Maybe in writing. This social pension is as high as we talked about. The changes that are taking place continue to improve the situation of those who have the lowest benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u54	The discussion is closed. But those were two other questions. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to delete the item from the agenda of the current sitting of the Sejm. 22.: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection (prints 46 and 110). We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws (Prints No 45, 45-A and 122). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Romansky to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 7 January this year. a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights was held. The subject of the meeting was a government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, seym prints No. 45 and 45-A. The project aims to set up in four district courts and two appeals courts departments to deal with copyright and related rights, industrial property and related unfair competition cases. This will enable judges to specialise in intellectual property matters. The essence of the project is to harmonise the rules of conduct in intellectual property matters by introducing new procedural institutions referred to as safeguards of evidence and disclosure or the issue of evidence into civil proceedings. The draft introduces in intellectual property cases the obligation for a professional proxy to represent a party, except in cases where the value of the subject matter of the dispute does not exceed 20 000. zł, and cases in which the court relieved the party of this obligation. In intellectual property proceedings, the project provides for two specific types of action, i.e. a counterclaim and an action to establish that certain acts do not infringe a specific patent, additional protection right or registration right. During the committee meeting, 16 amendments to the draft law were adopted, including amendments of a uniform and editorial nature; amendments to the Commercial Companies Code Act, the consequence of which is to postpone the date of entry into force of the provisions concerning electronic registration proceedings and a simple public limited liability company; amendments to the Restructuring Law by making it possible to publish notices in the context of insolvency and restructuring proceedings on the pages of the Government's Legislative Centre. The Commission has adopted a draft law. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u56	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report in print 122 and on prints 45 and 45-A. This is about the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. The proposal, as the rapporteur has already said, is intended to transfer to Poland those solutions which already exist in the European Union. In view of the progressive technological but also IT developments, intellectual property matters really require concrete solutions so that judicial proceedings in these cases can proceed smoothly, but at the same time that specialised judges and specialised courts can deal with these matters. How do designers want to introduce these improvements? First of all, it is a matter of course related to the fact that cases will be dealt with at first instance by four designated courts, courts in Poznań, Warsaw, Gdańsk and Lublin, and two courts in appeals, i.e. courts in Poznań and Warsaw, but at the same time the District Court in Warsaw will only be competent in matters of particularly important and complex intellectual property related to computer programs, inventions, utility designs, topography of integrated circuits, plant varieties and secrets of a company of a technical nature. In addition, the project requires the establishment of a specialised representative in intellectual property matters. Only a lawyer or legal adviser, in intellectual property matters, as well as a patent spokesperson, and in restructuring and bankruptcy matters also a person holding a licence of a restructuring adviser, and also a person managing the management of the property or interests of the party and a person remaining with the party in relation to the order, where the subject matter of the case falls within the scope of that order, a party to the dispute, as well as a spouse, siblings, successors or preliminary parties, and persons remaining with the party in relation to adoption. I think this is a good solution, because indeed the complexity of intellectual property matters justifies this kind of coercion. Of course, the project assumes that judges who will rule on these matters will be able, and will even have an obligation, to undergo additional training, to acquire qualifications and these opportunities for judges will be created. In a word, it is a bill expected and by the business community, and the creative environment. It seems that there is no particular controversy on both the side of the governing coalition and the opposition, as the committee's deliberations have shown. In this situation, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice I request the adoption of this bill by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u58	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on a procedated government bill amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. I would like to stress that my club members in principle support all draft laws on the improvement of the judicial system and enforcement in Poland, in particular if they are related to the need to implement EU law. Intellectual property matters are among the most complex or complex cases dealt with by the courts. The development of new technologies, the speed at which this happens, will cause these things to arrive, and their complexity will probably continue to increase. The changes presented in the project are expected both by entrepreneurs and by representatives of organisations that deal with broadly understood intellectual property rights. In particular, they concern the creation, within the judiciary, of separate organisational units to deal with wider intellectual property issues, and the establishment of rules for dealing with these matters. These changes were discussed in detail by the rapporteur. With regard to the validity of the proposed amendments, there is no doubt that the proposed amendments to the Civil Procedure Code will be in line with social needs. On the other hand, there is strong opposition to the way in which the proposed changes are being dealt with, which affects not only the quality but also the correctness of the law in question. The method of submitting amendments, the possibility or the lack of opportunity to read them before the beginning of the work, the lack of possibility to announce or wish to announce a break, as well as, perhaps most importantly, the notification of a proposal for amending the Code of Civil Procedure for the Code of Commercial Companies, which is absolutely not related to the proposed amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, makes it possible to disregard the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to proceed with the amendments to the Code of Commercial Companies. This method of proceding makes it impossible to properly discuss the proposed amendments, leads to the adoption of rules which are contradictory, contradictory internally, underdeveloped, and entails further rapid amendments. In this way, it does not guarantee the proper establishment of a good law that serves citizens. In conclusion, I would like to say that I recommend the members of the Parliamentary Club that the Civic Coalition abstain from voting on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u60	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u61	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition League, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws, as well as on the committee's report. First of all, I have to say that the Left Club is extremely disappointed. Disappointed by the project after the previous meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The project in its original version envisaged a number of changes which the community of practitioners, professionals dealing with intellectual property issues, and the doctrine and collective rights management organisation had been demanding for years. In principle, the project brings good solutions. One of its main objectives is the idea of establishing separate civil courts in the field of intellectual property law, because the development of technology and, as a consequence, the emergence of new complex social and economic relations, as well as the emergence of new ideas and works of a new type, makes the courts more and more extremely complicated to resolve cases from the borders of different areas of law. The project also assumes - and this must be seen as a positive solution - the introduction of a new procedural measure in the form of safeguards of evidence. This is one of the draft laws that gave the opportunity to really have a substantive discussion in committee, with experts, with guests representing the environments concerned, also with representatives of the government who appeared to be extremely competent. Finally, the Left was hoping for a normal job in the committee, not the one that took place on the occasion of the draft muzzle bill. Yeah, but unfortunately. The way in which this project is dealt with poses a great risk that it can be considered to be adopted in violation of procedures, legislative techniques and, most importantly, fundamental standards set by the Constitution. As can be done in the context of a proper change to concretely develop an effective judicial path for the enforcement of intellectual property rights claims, such changes as, for example, can be made. changes in the functioning of specialised enforcement units in the general courts for the recognition of enforcement cases, which are intended to relate to the powers of the courts in matters of bail-in or bail-out proceedings. After all, this self-correction has nothing to do with the main objective underlying the bill. The proposed law also amends the Commercial Companies Code, which they have, euphemistically speaking, extremely loose or almost no relation to the procedated submission. During the committee's deliberations, a number of amendments were submitted to the committee members, on which none of the Members present - at least I personally - had seen similar reactions from my fellow Members - had no chance to bend over or which he simply did not have a chance to read in human terms. This is not how you work on laws and this is not how you create law in Poland, or at least you should not work like this. I would remind you that amendments and modifications must have a material, functional and deliberate relationship with the submission. In our view, the scope of the submission has been exceeded as regards these amendments. By raising our hand, we would give face to bad practice on the occasion of the main presentation of other outstanding cases. Such a procedure is burdened with a gigantic charge of non-constitutionality, but, as the chairman of the committee has said, the Constitutional Tribunal will ultimately decide. Well, I think we have a clear interpretation of how you've been dealing with bill designs lately, at least on our justice committee. Either it will be somehow, or the Constitutional Tribunal will at most determine unconstitutionality. Me and my club aren't gonna face this procedure, and we don't wanna live up to it. For my club, both the quality of the law and the quality of the law itself is an important value. Please note one more point. The day before yesterday, we were dealing with a revision of the Commercial Companies Code in the Justice Committee when discussing K.p.c. Well, after all, we have a separate procedure to process changes in codes, and the deadlines for handling codes are longer. Why do we have to break the procedures that apply to all of us in this committee every time? I really am saying this with great regret, because this bill was a non-controversial project, and even needed. We ourselves, as the club of the Left, at first reading, supported this solution, but the way in which this bill is dealt with forces us to take a negative stance. And I'm just saying it with great sadness. Like the Coalition Club, we will abstain from voting on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to speak on the procedure, because what is submitted is important, not how the rules have been adopted. On the other hand, I would like to raise a fundamental issue which at the moment requires regulation in Poland, which is not a procedure at all, but requires, I repeat, to make fundamental decisions. Namely, it has been significantly expanded in the world, and this is beyond any measure, the protection of intellectual property, which is the result of which this protection is broken. Because if there's a moral standard being exceeded, then people break the law and skip the rules. There were times when the economy and technology developed as fast as possible when most patents were issued. At the time, patent law protected for seven years. This was extended to the age of 11. You had to pay for four years to have more protection. The extension of up to 25 years is a definite exaggeration, it is necessary to return to old forms, because this causes large companies to occupy public space and profit too much from it at the expense of the development of normal science, technology, industry, etc. This applies in particular to intellectual protection. It is scandalous that the creators of various works, whether it be a masterpiece of literature or pornography, are protected for 70 years after the author's death. This is an absolute scandal. Absolute scandal. The intellectual lobby has won this kind of privilege, and these privileges must be erased. Poland should do this itself, without waiting for the rest of the world, and should also insist with the help of other emerging countries on changing this scandalous, I repeat, recipe. Of course you can also protect Aristotle's works and take money for it, there were such attempts in Poland when the government tried to take royalties for Aristotle's works, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. On the current proposal, we will abstain from voting, like the rest of the opposition, because there are right things, there are wrong things, and in this sense we will abstain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u64	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? There are no volunteers. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tomasz Romankowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u65	Dear Marshal! Minister! In fact, it's called an explanation, because maybe it didn't sound like it was during my original speech. The course of the Justice and Human Rights Committee's meeting on 7 January could be said as to the standards of this term of office, was over-normatively positive. It's all the more surprising to hear that kind of voice. And I am even more surprised at Mrs Jaskowiak's call for amendments to be tabled before the committee meeting. If we had allowed you to do so, you would not have tabled this amendment, which most of the committee accepted and which, of course, came not from you, but from an expert who participated in the work of the committee. Your request for amendments to be made in writing before the committee meeting and not submitted by Members is absurd. The kind of murder you're proposing, this House has never seen before. The normal thing arising from the rules of procedure and the right of the Member is to submit amendments. Your protests against amendments made by parliamentarians, even by you, are absolutely curial. I can only be surprised... But as they cross... Don't huff, my fellow Member. Don't huff. I'm telling you. Don't insult me. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I would just like to explain that the committee was really calm, and perhaps because of the fact that President Gasiuk-Pihowicz did not participate. Oh, come on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u66	Please, in the procedure of correcting Mrs Joanna Jaskowiak. You're welcome. Apologize to me. You're not very elegant, you're not very parliamentary. You too. I would like to ask Members to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u67	One point. It's not about making amendments before the meeting, it's about giving them a chance to get to know them. It wouldn't have happened if we had 15 minutes to read them. That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u68	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 to present our position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, seym prints No. 45, 45-A and 122. This proposal provides for the creation, within the judiciary, of separate organisational units to deal with copyright and related rights, industrial property and related unfair competition cases. The creation of four departments in district courts (Warsaw, Gdańsk, Katowice, Poznań) and two in appeals courts (Katowice, Warsaw) is envisaged. Each department will be exclusively competent for intellectual property matters, including disputes concerning EU marks and Community designs. The project dealt with technical solutions in a special way, i.e. computer programs, inventions, utility designs, topography of integrated circuits, plant varieties and secrets of a company of a technical nature. For them, only the District Court in Warsaw will be competent. Given the relatively limited number of cases in this area and their high level of complexity, such a solution seems appropriate. The project envisages a separate intellectual property procedure. One separate feature in these cases is the introduction of a lawyer's coercion if the value of the subject matter of the dispute exceeds PLN 20,000. The project shall grant the eligible persons a wide range of measures to safeguard or obtain evidence. The most important of them is a request for evidence. It is a well-known institution, according to this project in intellectual property matters, it will obtain new content. The request for protection of the means of proof may be addressed to a person, including the defendant, in whose jurisdiction the means of proof is situated or which may enable it to be secured. Security will be possible before or during the proceedings until the hearing is closed in the first instance. The project provides for extensive safeguards to protect the secrecy of the undertaking. The Court of First Instance will at least be able to determine the extent to which the information will be disclosed and the manner in which it is used. This responds to the risk of abuse of a request for evidence in order to obtain information sensitive to the competitor. The project also provides for the regulation of the so-called. an information claim already known for its industrial property rights. In accordance with the amendment at the request of the entitled party, who has demonstrated reliable circumstances indicating the infringement, the court may before or during the infringement proceedings, until the closing of the hearing at the first instance, call on the infringer to provide information on the origin and distribution networks of goods or services, if necessary for the purpose of pursuing the claim. High Izbo! This amendment is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. The project responds to numerous demands of entrepreneurs regarding the introduction of specialized intellectual property courts into the Polish justice system. The creation of judges of the possibility of specialising in intellectual property and the creation of specialised units in district and appeal courts will certainly improve the quality of judicial work in such cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u70	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws (prints 43 and 91). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft of this law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws contained in print no. 43. The bill I mentioned was introduced to the Sejm on 4 December Ub. and then addressed to first reading at the meeting held on 12 December. The High Sejm referred the draft to the Infrastructure Commission, which considered the project on 18 December 2019. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the most important objectives of this project include among others. reducing the winding-up of railway lines and stopping the degradation of railway infrastructure on railway lines, on which a decision has already been made to terminate them, secondly, regulating the implementation of rail connections at the borders of voivodships in order to enable the implementation of these connections to be supported by public funds - this is the task, in particular, of local authorities of voivodships - thirdly, removing barriers and problems for the effective implementation of railway investments, including those investments which are carried out under the What was the course of the committee's work? Here I would like to point out, first of all, that the Commission's work had been amended - there were quite a number of amendments - which were editorial and legislative in nature, which were reported by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The Commission authorised the Bureau to adopt and introduce them. I would now refer in particular to a number of amendments which have been discussed and which have not been adopted by the committee by a majority. Among other things, first of all, the amendment to the article. Article 9q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (6). This amendment was intended to extend the restrictions set out in this provision by adding a new provision of the Real Estate Management Act. It was argued, which was divided by the committee, that in general the current legal situation allows the construction and reconstruction of the road system, the establishment and operation of electricity transmission and communication and signalling equipment. The amendment to add a point in the current Article was also rejected. 36 and deletion of point 3 of that Article. 36 to enable the application of the provisions of the Act on the provision and financing of infrastructure to managers of narrow and wide-range infrastructure on the basis of the decision of the manager. Nor was this amendment supported by the committee, since the arguments that the current wording of the Act does not exclude the application of the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Law on the financing of rail transport in relation to a type of infrastructure other than normal infrastructure were divided here. The amendment was also rejected, which consisted in adding a new article on the allocation of the State budget to finance local and regional infrastructure managers unrelated to the main railway network managers of Poland and other countries, provided that the length of the network they manage does not exceed 300 km, regardless of the obligation to make the infrastructure available. The argument which has been rejected as regards this amendment boils down to the fact that the current wording of the article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 as regards the financing of the infrastructure manager's activities which cannot be financed by revenues from the charges for the use of the railway infrastructure which the infrastructure manager is required to pay in accordance with Article. 6 Act to be made available, optional and depends on public resources available. And we cannot agree here to unlimited, unconditional and mandatory financing of infrastructure that will not be made available and operated. There were other amendments, which were more important and which were also rejected. The amendment, which was based on a maintenance proposal which was the basis for ex officio proceedings to determine the acquisition by the municipality of the ownership of the real estate, i.e. Article 2 17a paragraph. 3 of this law and a positive new paragraph. 4. Another proposal, which was not accepted here, is such a proposal to delete words from the government project, I quote the one located no more than 30 km from the border of the voivodship, or to add words to the nearest node station located more than 30 km from the border of the voivodship. This is to extend the possibility of carrying out voivodship rail passenger services beyond 30 km from the border of the voivodship. Here I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen to the fact that this regulation, which is being examined, makes it possible to introduce new connections in a more appropriate way, the destination of which is beyond the borders of the region concerned. This has so far been done on the basis of separate agreements. The proposed changes concern the possibility for the organisers of voivodship passenger transport in rail transport, i.e. the marshals of voivodships, the implementation of railway connections further than the nearest station abroad of the voivodship, as is currently the case, without the need to conclude agreements between voivodships. The project does not limit the possibility of completing the connection further than 30 km from the border of the voivodship and will take place as before, on the basis of agreements concluded between the marshals of voivodships. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the amendments tabled were rejected by the Infrastructure Commission. I have put forward some of the most important arguments against the proposals that I had referred to here earlier. The Commission adopted the text of the draft law, as I mentioned at the outset, with amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. The draft amendment to the Rail Transport Act, which I would like to note with satisfaction, introduces additional legal instruments which will, in a realistic way, contribute concretely to the development and efficient use of railway infrastructure. In our view, in the course of the work on the government novel, it can be concluded that this is part of the anti-communication exclusion and support for the completion of the programme to complement the local and regional railway infrastructure (Rail+) by 2028. The proposed solutions in the assessment of the Infrastructure Commission should be adopted as quickly as possible and implemented. With the above arguments, once again, which I will stress with satisfaction, the government initiative, I ask the High Sejm to adopt a government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws in the wording which was adopted in the committee's report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u72	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on rail transport and certain other laws, respectively print 43 and 91. It is worth noting that the general objectives of the project include the creation of legal instruments that will better prevent and effectively develop the undesired degradation of railway infrastructure in Poland than before. The most important changes made include, firstly, the suspension of the process of winding up railway lines, secondly, the lending of immovable property remaining on decommissioned railway lines or sections of these lines, thirdly, allowing for the implementation of voivodship rail connections outside the voivodship borders, fourthly, the improvement of the implementation of railway investments, further, the improvement and acceleration of the implementation of investments in tram lines located outside public road lanes, the reduction of the burden on voivodships and the reduction of unjustified municipalisation of the State Treasury land occupied by railway infrastructure, the simplification of the rules for the calculation of charges for access to a service facility or services provided, the adaptation of the provisions of the Railway Transport Act to the judgment of the TSEU, the protection of the secrecy of an undertaking or other secrets legally protected in administrative proceedings. The changes made must be very positive. This draft law is intended to facilitate investment in rail infrastructure, maximise the use of this infrastructure for rail transport and prevent unjustified and rapid decommissioning of railway lines. The project contains concrete legal instruments that will really contribute to the development and efficient use of railway infrastructure. All the proposed amendments to the bill deserve support. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice intends to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u74	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws upon presentation of the committee's report, i.e. prints 43 and 91. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the general wording of the changes proposed by the government in this law, they should be assessed positively, because the introduction of such a direct possibility by the local government or the railway manager to manage This is a change that goes in the direction that local governments want. Also broadening the definition of voivodship passenger transport or introducing an additional procedure for the liquidation of the railway line are things that give rise to a positive sound and, as I said, go in the desired direction. As is usually the case - we're actually used to this situation - positive changes, which are provided for in various proposed laws, also have a sound, I don't want to use a negative expression, such that they need to be worked very hard on so that they actually introduce good solutions, and they were not such, I would say, a flower to the goat. Thus, with regard to the introduction of the possibility of a free take-over by the local authority designated by the railway manager or the management section, of course It's a change going in the right direction, but there's no second step. There should also be funding following the acquisition of management, because in such a situation we basically deprive the Minister of some of the trouble of spending funds on the management of such a line, while the government or the administrator, who is better able to manage this line, does not receive even some of the funds that the Ministry would have to spend anyway. We will therefore propose, and we propose, an amendment that aims to partially finance the maintenance and management of such a line, not at the level that we currently have in the framework of this management, for example. PLK, but on the basis of such rules, which will allow additional funding up to the amount of 100,000. PLN in 1 km for local government or such operator. We will also propose, and this is the amendment I make, to extend the definition of voivodship passenger transport. This change, which concerns only 30 km, is not sufficient. In many cases, nodal stations, which should be a certain communication axis and should be a communication determinant, are located more than 30 km away. In this case, we will propose that these services may also be carried out within a distance of more than 30 km to the first node station. This solution seems so reasonable that it creates space for the real, good organization of inter-voivodship passenger transport. Our amendments also contain proposals from the social side to put an end to unfair discrimination against narrow-track lines, which can also be used to eliminate white spots, and in the current situation such opportunities are very difficult. In principle, the attempt to reverse this draft reform law, which was intended to bring about the communalisation of assets, deserves special attention. It is not known why, otherwise, the establishment of the Ministry, so that these areas which concern railway lines cannot be communalised, because in our opinion they should serve the purpose of communication, the construction of railway lines, are enlarged and cover the whole category of areas which, under these rules, cannot be communalised. This is obviously a mistake, that is to reverse the reform and introduce the path that (The Bell) was in the Polish People's Republic. We can't agree to that. Not to mention that it basically deprives the local government of their property. That is why we are proposing an amendment here to delete this provision. On the other hand, we encourage the Ministry to follow the path set by the Legislative Council. The Legislative Board assessed this solution and proposed three different paths to be applied. Time exceeded. We therefore make amendments. I hope that we can discuss this on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u76	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Mr Wiesław Szczepański. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the draft law to amend the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws contained in print 43 and 91. The Parliament considered this proposal at its meeting on 12 December and the Infrastructure Commission adopted the report on 18 December. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted. The bill under consideration today is extremely important, as it is intended to support the implementation of the "Rail+" programme until 2028. Like I said a month ago, it's the legal part of this program. We are pleased that mechanisms will be put in place to restore the operation of railway infrastructure in closed areas after the railway infrastructure has been removed and that railway areas which are currently unused will be restored to transport use. It will be possible to transfer railway lines to free use by local authorities. The decommissioning of railway lines will be possible subject to the approval of the Minister of Infrastructure, although we do not agree, Minister, to liquidate lines of state importance. The voivodship authorities will be able to carry out rail transport further than to the nearest station abroad of their voivodship, which should contribute to improving communication on the vernaas currently deprived of convenient connections, but, as my previous speaker said, we will also make an amendment to ensure that these transports are extended to nodal stations, because some of them are more than 30 km away. The Act introduces the possibility of allocating funds from the Railway Fund to finance or co-financing by the voivodship of tasks relating to the purchase, modernisation and repair of railway vehicles intended for passenger transport carried out under a contract for the provision of services provided that communication connections between neighbouring voivodships are ensured. Unused funds can be used by local authorities next year. A system for granting financial guarantees to open tender procedures will be simplified. A new source of financing, preparation and implementation of rail investments has also been introduced, including funds from the issuance of treasury securities. During the committee's work, the date of issue of the securities was realized, as we pointed out during our meeting when I tabled this amendment. The question arises as to whether almost PLN 5 billion is really needed in 2020 and why it is 300 million higher than it originally was in the project. No studies are available on the effects of the introduction of the Article. 33w. I would like to ask how much it will cost to operate and issue almost 11.5 billion securities and when they will be purchased by the State Treasury. In order to clarify and improve the bill discussed today, representatives of our club made a number of amendments during the work of the Infrastructure Committee. Unfortunately, they did not find recognition in the eyes of the Minister and the ruling coalition. Today we would like to repeat this and bring it in during the second reading. We believe that they should improve and clarify the existing provisions. I'd like to make seven amendments, Your Marshal. The amendments will concern Article. Point 1 (4) (b) where Article 2 (1) (b) applies. Article 9q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 1 we propose to give a new sound to item 6, which will allow for a cost-effective use of space in the design and construction of tram lines. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 12 of the Amending Article. 30e paragraph. 2 We want to extend from 21 to 30 days the deadline communicated by the manager before the date of entry into force of the timetable of trains to the relevant managers or operators of passenger stations. The next amendment concerns Article. Point 1 (17), specifically Article. Article 38b (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2, where we propose to leave the record so far, which is important to us in the case of passengers commuting to jobs and learning. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 17 of the Amending Article. Article 38b (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 7 we are proposing to prohibit the liquidation of lines of national importance. At the same time, after the article. 3 we propose to add a new article. 3a amending Article 6 point 1 of the Real Estate Management Act. We want tram lines to be regarded as a public-purpose investment. At the same time, in the article. Point 4 (4) as regards Article. 39, in the newly added paragraph. 3a We propose that railway lines be transferred to local authorities for purposes related solely to rail transport. We are concerned that today the transfer of these lines to communication issues will not turn these lines into bike paths or any other kind of road. The point is that the lines will be dismantled, and the goal will in fact be achieved by local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 point 1a we propose that the voivodship transports be carried out in the voivodship area not at a distance of 30 km, but to the node station. We hope that our amendments will be accepted. Our club supports this bill, but we believe that the amendments should improve it. I am therefore handing over these amendments to your marshal. Please refer this proposal to the committee again to consider the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u78	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking for these corrections. Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Stefan Krajewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u79	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I am pleased to present our comments on the proposed amendment to the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print no. 43 and 91. The proposed solutions are intended to support the programme and complement the local and regional railway infrastructure under the "Rail+' programme and to enable the elimination of transport exclusions. This is positive in our opinion. I'm getting to the details. Many questions and problems arise. Firstly, railway areas which are currently not being used will be restored to use for transport purposes. It will be possible to transfer railway lines to free use by local authorities. At this point, consideration should be given to the financing of all managers, including non-strategic infrastructure, and the subsequent implementation of this financing. It should also be borne in mind that, apart from small local infrastructure managers, there are also small infrastructure managers who have been created by the involvement of citizens and, consequently, the change is part of the trend of building a civil state. The decommissioning of railway lines will be limited. This will be possible subject to the approval of the Minister of Infrastructure. The process of winding up railway lines has actually been under way since 1990. It's already gone 7,000. km of railway lines. It's a process worth stopping. The question is whether the Minister's agreement will be the solution. She's not shutting this process down, she's moving it to a different level. With the Minister's approval, the railway lines can continue to be closed. It is also important to note that at the time of the modernisation of railway lines, many passing places have been closed and passenger connections are limited. The expected effect will be the restoration of railway infrastructure in currently inactive areas or in areas where railway infrastructure has been dismantled. There are a large part of these issues relating to passenger transport. It is a good thing that the voice of local governments has finally been heard, which are asking for even more support, and this is positive, while this distance of 30 km will actually limit this issue in many places. Solutions designed... All those that are concern organizers of public collective transport, especially the marshals of voivodships, who would like to make such connections without the need for separate agreements between voivodships. It will be possible to allocate funds from the Railway Fund, finance or co-financing by the voivodships of tasks relating to the purchase, modernisation of rolling stock. It's all got to be done. It's got to be changed. Of course, it is worth talking to all local governments, not only those governed by Law and Justice. That's what I'm calling for. Issues that need to be considered are, for example, the financing and support of retro railways. Investment should be discussed mainly in a profitable way, and non-profitable investments should be excluded. Municipalisation issues and ownership issues should also be agreed. Because it cannot be that PKP PLK will, however, have a large advantage over small local governments. These local authorities would like to make a lot of necessary investments. All of this requires a deeper reflection, discussion, a joint meeting and agreement. I would like to say here that as a coalition of Poland-PSL-Kukiz15 we generally appreciate this project positively, because it aims to accelerate, improve certain processes. We'll vote in favour. Of course, it is worth looking at the proposed amendments again at the committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u81	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Generally, the Confederacy Circle supports this project. We understand the fact that we should stop the degradation of railway lines, and we should also expand the possibilities of creating new railway lines. On the other hand, with all our positive attitude towards this project and all the enthusiasm that we have on this issue to expand rail transport, because we know that it is transport, for example. greener than car transport, we are proposing one amendment. Art. 6 point 1 should include information that lines which are voivodship lines could go into 50 km and not 30 km, as is provided for in the Act. I'll explain why. There is a part of the node stations in Poland, even close to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, which are more than 30 km from the border of a particular voivodship. This means that the nearest station to which one could make - as a given voivodship - a specific railway line would have to be, for example. The smallest station somewhere in the middle of the field. This is a merely unpractical situation. So we think these 50 kilometers are much more rational. We want to bring this amendment to the procession. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u82	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. 11 Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Changes in the law that will improve investment in rail infrastructure and improve safety in rail and road traffic are absolutely necessary. Together with those who have had enough of the exclusion of communication inhabitants of Western Pomerania, I hope that investment in infrastructure in our region will take place in the investment plans of the resort. Minister! It's that simple. Pendolino arrives in Szczecin, Świnoujście. Elektrification of line No 402, i.e. Goleniów - Kołobrzeg. Co-financing of the construction of two, not one viaduct in Szczecin within the Szczecin Metropolitan Railway. The extension of the railway line from Kamień Pomorskie to Dziwnówka and further to Trzebiatów - this is a new line. Development of a plan to expand railway networks in Western Pomerania. Five points to complete, and you will satisfy not only the inhabitants of Western Pomerania (the bell), but also holiday makers and tourists who visit our region. Minister! Finally: remember that in the Western Pomerania sometimes you also like to be alone, you know who, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's worth it. And please bear in mind that I am still maintaining the declaration of meeting with the Minister to discuss the infrastructure issues of our region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the draft law provides for the possibility of winding up a railway line of state importance after removing this line from the list of lines of state importance, I have a question: How does this proposed provision relate to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2a of the Rail Transport Act, which reads: It is not allowed to abolish the status of a railway line for a railway of state importance? In the proposed form, the law will contain rules which do not apply. And the question is: What has changed since the end of 2016, when did you introduce a ban on abolishing the status of a state-of-the-art line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a favor to ask. On December 12, I have submitted a few questions to your deputy, Minister Bittel, and I have a request that the Minister give me an answer to these questions because it has been almost a month and I have not received these answers. The second question, on the other hand, concerns the program for the restoration of railway lines. Among several dozen railway lines there are two lines: the railway line Śrem - Czempin, as I remember well, and the railway line Leszno - Gostyn. I have a general question: At what stage is the implementation of this programme? When can you expect to start preparatory work on the restoration of the dozens of lines that have been mentioned by you?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left... No, I'm sorry. It's okay. Mr Romuald Aichler, also the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During my first reading, I asked for a chance to restore rail line 368. This is the railroad from the Interwest to the Shamotula. In fact, the restoration of this line will cause the exclusion of communication in this environment to cease, and many municipalities by closing this line in the past... I'm not saying what kind of governments, because you could probably talk about everyone, including AWS, but it's not about telling anyone anything, it's about drawing up this bill, and there's a chance that some lines could be restored. Hence my question: What is the chance that this line number 368... There have been many meetings with the local government, many discussions, many surveys and no one knows what else. All conditions seem to be met. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just one thing. What are the odds of this line? When? If the owner... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...whose owner is PLK, would it be a chance for PLK to renovate it and then eventually hand it over to the Wielkopolska government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, During my first reading, I asked a question about the beginning of the construction of the Konin railway station as an element of the communication and trade centre. For 2 years there has been information about the start of the construction of this investment. There's a selected contractor. The local authorities have taken the appropriate measures expected by the contractor. Today I looked at the history of local information. In 2019 this investment was to be completed and it has not started yet. Therefore, I have a question: When will the construction of the integrated communication and trade centre in Konin begin? Its very important element is the railway station, especially since the line Poznań - Warsaw is modified. There are also new platforms. Now (the bell) the latter element is missing to complete this investment. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u92	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u93	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This project is a long-awaited and necessary legal regulation in my view preventing the elimination of existing routes and railway lines. I think that today, when the dynamic development of the automotive industry is far ahead of the needs and development of road infrastructure, only rail can provide citizens with stable connectivity and efficient access to crowded cities, especially large urban agglomerations. But I wanted to ask the Minister whether there will be other legislative work following this project aimed at revitalizing existing lines and building a new railway infrastructure that will allow new convenient rail connections to be established. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u94	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the article. 3 provision to repeal the Article. 17a paragraph. 3 Provisions implementing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. In the original version of the project, you proposed that this provision should cover the exclusion of those properties which are of the nature of the real estate related to railway lines. In principle, the idea was very good, but in this version, which was sent to the High House, you exclude from the communalization all the properties, which introduce the state which was in the Polish People's Republic. This is a return to the Polish People's Republic. I wanted to ask you why you decided to introduce such a general rule, de facto to return introducing state property, instead of using (the bell) ideas of the Legislative Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u96	Thank you very much. Catherine Kotula, Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u97	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In terms of infrastructure, I admit, I am a laywoman, but I would like to ask why on the Szczecin - Warsaw route it takes 8 hours by rail and why it has been happening for more than 3 years. Is this because of the renovation on this route? If so, when do you expect this renovation to be completed? As a conscious railroad fan, I remember that three years ago the trip from Szczecin to Warsaw lasted about 5 and 6 hours. For 10 years, I've only been able to ride the railroad consistently, using only this means of transport. Today more and more citizens choose the less ecological means of transport, which is the airplane, because it is the only way to get to Warsaw in less than 5 hours. The route from Szczecin to Warsaw is the shortest one to go from Szczecin to Gdynia and catch pendolino from Gdynia to Warsaw or from Szczecin 2 hours to the south, to Rzepin, and catching the train of the Berlin-Warsaw relationship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. I would also like to ask if it is planned to modernise the railway line on the Szczecin-Warsaw route, adapting it to speed and when these works will be completed so that the journey time can finally be reduced. I remember that this line was supposed to be upgraded to Euro 2012, and it's 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u98	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u99	High Izbo! Minister! I have this question - I would like the Ministry to answer me in writing: Which railway lines in the Podlaskie province will be modernised and renovated according to what is assumed in this law? And I would also like to address Poles and Poles: on Sunday 12 January we are questioning for the children. I invite everyone to be generous in this action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u100	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Indeed, this bill is going in the right direction, because there is no doubt that investment in railway networks needs to be accelerated. On the other hand, my question is as follows. We have started a budgetary debate. Does the budget planned for 2020 already provide for the implementation of this law? And then there's the other thing. Mrs Kotula, Mrs Kotula, I am sorry, it is clear that she is also from Szczecin. I am also from Szczecin, so I will not talk about this Warsaw. I'm joining you on that question. On the other hand, I have a question about the Adornian line. Apart from passenger transport, it is very important for the development of infrastructure, also for economic development, and the Trans-Odrzańska line connecting Szczecin with Wrocław is very important. Therefore, my question is this: At what stage (The Bell) of implementation is this investment at the moment and is it included in the plans for the following years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u102	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u103	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the last years of my parliamentary work, I have repeatedly interviewed the Ministry of Infrastructure on the Podlaskie sections of railway lines. I am very glad that the tender for the Białystok-Czyżew section has already been settled. The good news is also that trains will move much faster on this route than initially assumed. But there's still a lot to do. The lines on which trains used to run should be restored, but unfortunately they no longer run. I hope this amendment will be a step in the right direction. Therefore, I would like to ask when line 36 between Ostrołęka and Łomża will be built. I know this is supposed to be one of the railroad spokes leading to the Central Communication Port, but I'd like to know exactly when this line will be put into service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the next question, line 37 Białystok-Walk. At this point, trains only run there during the summer period. Question: "Is it possible to finance this line so that the railroad will ride there regularly?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u104	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members voted on has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, the Minister of Infrastructure Mr Andrzej Adamczyk will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am very pleased that rail transport is experiencing a kind of renaissance. I am very pleased that, ladies and gentlemen, these Members are so positive about all the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, whose aim is to... Minister... ...enhancing the attractiveness of the railways, increasing communication accessibility and eliminating communication exclusion. This may be counted by some of you for a political speech, but first of all I wanted to refer to history, so that here, in this House, here, now that we have prepared a good bill, once and for all blocking the possibility of winding up railway lines, to recall what has happened in the last 20, 30 years. Mr Czarzasty, speaking from the Parliamentary Speaker during the debate on this project, stated that the government is preparing a project for the Central Communication Port and is going to spend $30 billion on the implementation of this project - how important and needed for the interests of the state - and should focus above all on focusing not only attention, but also finance, on the reconstruction of the railways. I wanted to remind all skeptics, also Mr Czarzastek, that no one else has cared as much about the Polish railroad as the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right. For here, ladies and gentlemen, is the shame of the left. That's how much you've shut down the railroads under the next rule. What about the Election Action? That's how much you took out the railroads. 2680 km of railway lines eliminated by subsequent governments of the SLD, in various configurations with PSL. Besides, PSL has a specific role in this, because 1914 km of railway lines were liquidated during governments in various coalition configurations with the SLD. But I repeat this again, I remind you of it and I am talking about it as a kind of memento for all those who wish to do otherwise, rather than rebuild the railway network in Poland, not restore respect for rail transport, not transfer car transport from car roads to railway roads. Colleagues from the Civic Platform also have some merit in destroying the Polish railway. I have two examples. They perfectly illustrate the difference between the rule of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice over the railways in this case. These are two examples of the largest cities in Poland deprived of access to the railways - Jastrzębia-Zdrój and Lubin. But it seems to be the SLD. The trains stopped arriving at Lubin in 2010. There is no minister here today who has made a decision on this matter. But in the Jastrzębie-Zdrój connection was terminated by the Civic Platform. One could say that what the Left didn't eliminate was completed by the Civic Platform. But before that, there was a PiS. In 2008, a liquidation decision was issued as regards sections of the tracks from Hawk-Zdrój to Zebrzódowice. One more thing. I refer here to the memory of parliamentarians, Members of the 2011-2015 term of office. You remember how difficult we fought to ensure that the project was not implemented, which was prepared by the then Minister of Infrastructure Sławomir Nowak. The report on the optimisation of the railway network was commissioned. It recommends optimization, and, to put it directly, the extinction and elimination of more than 3 thousand. km of running railway tracks, the use of which was considered to be inefficient. And that's what I wanted to remind you of. It is a good thing that then the rulers came to their senses under pressure above all of the opposition, because thanks to this procedure Poland would have a network of 16,5 thousand. km of railway lines. Mr Krajewski. Mr President, during the time of the PSL regime, the call to Zambrowa was terminated. Zambrze to your town. Scandal! That's a reminder. But I could also refer to the statements of other Members speaking today. I'm glad you have the same opinion with the designers. But let me remind you that many railway lines in Wielkopolska were also liquidated in the days of the SLD government. And I'm glad you're saying today that it has to be done differently. Perhaps you, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, as a presidential candidate, no longer have a Marshal, have stopped working today - will visit various cities in Poland, different regions as part of the campaign. Maybe he'll visit Silesia, Lower Silesia, Warmia and Mazury. And there she will probably have to answer the questions of the inhabitants, why the tracks were destroyed in her formation, the trains stopped coming to many towns, why it was planned to cut these regions off from the rails in general. Similarly, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, the candidate, also during the election campaign, will have to collid with this list of shame of PSL. He will probably visit Lidzbark Warmiński, visit Warmia and Mazury. In Lidzbark, too, he will probably have to answer why, when he was Prime Minister, he closed the tracks leading to this town. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last four years, we have done a lot to restore the glow of the Polish railway. Passenger trains returned, among others. to the mentioned Lower Silesian Lubin, Knurowo in Silesia or Lublin Radzyń Podlaski. When we started working in 2015, PKP Intercity trains stopped close to 290 towns, today there are more than 400. That's a 1/3 increase in four years. The Poles return to the railroad, they want to use it. That's what the railway statistics are talking about. In 2015, 280 million passengers were transported, many indications that in 2019 this would be close to 330 million. This means that despite the work, despite modernisation, the number of passengers is increasing as a result of the modernisation of rail routes. But we also know that we have a lot to do. The analysis available to the Ministry of Infrastructure shows that 53% The municipalities in Poland have access to an active railway network. 30 million people live there, or 78% the population of the whole country. As many as 8 million Poles, or more than 1/5 of our population, live in municipalities where there is no access to the railway network. Nearly 2 million Poles live in the commune, where there is an active railway network, but there are no regional connections or any connections at all, i.e. the train passes through the window, but it does not stop there. To improve access to rail transport, we have prepared this bill that we are leaning over today. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki recently adopted this bill. I repeat once again: I am very pleased that this project is widely accepted in the High House. Regardless of the parliamentary clubs, regardless of many different positions. Here we could say that we have a connection. And let us remember one thing: let us never let railway lines in Poland be permanently liquidated, because history will not forget us, that Poles will not forget us. Therefore, these sharpenings, which are included in this law, maybe in the opinion of some, are oversized, but they are necessary, they are needed. Life has proven and life experience suggests that such safeguards must be introduced in the bill. We assume that at the initial stage we will restore the railroad to 20 towns, among others. Hawk-Zdrój, Sokołow Podlaskie or Vladawa. We will prevent the elimination of railway lines, we will regulate rail connections at the borders between voivodships and thus improve the communication accessibility of these areas. I don't know, 50, 40 kilometers. The important thing is to communicate with the regions. I refer here to the content of one of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen! Again, it's just one list, it's just one size. Let it sound like a memento. These are the railway lines that hide behind this number. These are railway lines that, over the 30 years, can be said to have been closed since 1993. That's the exclusion of communication. And may this process never occur again in the history of the Republic of Poland. I ask the High House to accept this bill. Poland has been driving on good tracks for 4 years. Questions, Minister. And we hope that we will continue in the right direction, in the right tracks, as this train has so far led by the Government of Law and Justice. And now the questions. Just like he builds the apartments. Quick, effective. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Mr... Well, Mr Łącki asked about funds, asked about rail connections. As I recall, it was Szczecin, right? And Piglet. And Piglet. RPO measures, new proposals. Of course, we anticipate the implementation of these projects. For West Pomerania we are preparing several important and interesting projects that will trigger the region's potential. There are several extremely expensive railway problems, but necessary for the implementation of several projects necessary for implementation. Mr Szczepański asked about specific projects. It's a government decision. The competitions will be held this year, Mr President. The competitions will be announced this year as regards investment projects. Mr Tomaszewski asked about the station in Konin. Mr Konin, when we are talking about the station in Konin, we must be aware that the original project, the cost estimate, was lower than the proposed value, and therefore we must re-examine and adjust the investor cost estimate to the needs. And certainly the project in Konin will be carried out on time. I'm sure of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Marek Polak, absent. Revitalization of existing and construction of new railway lines. I would like to remind you that it is above all the law of "Kolej"+, it is the Central Communication Port and its launch, the launch of new railway lines in Nowodroż, a new EU perspective, the possibility of carrying out projects included in the "National Railway Program." Thank you very much, Minister. Speak to the Minister. Member of the Commission, Member of the Commission... I'm sorry, I haven't made a note of Mr Suchon's question. I understand why. No, no, I'm sorry. I will explain after, if you allow me. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, the other questions can always be answered in writing. Your Marshal, if you don't mind... Marshal, I'm almost done. Good. Well, Mrs Kotula... I, of course, respect myself very much that those who do not necessarily know the investment processes on the railways demand and expect rail transport to function normally. But specifically now, Minister. Yes, it will function normally when we complete the modernisation of the railway line Szczecin - Poznań and Poznań - Warsaw. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] She's in the process. This investment is in realization. I wouldn't want to depreciate the problem. This is how often it is with the renovation of the apartment, how often it is with the renovation of the bathroom. Minister, you're welcome. It's hard to take a shower when it's renovated, the bathroom's renovated, but when it's renovated, I assure you the trains will ride... Minister, let's get back to the railroad. You're out of time. You're very welcome. ...better and in due course. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for this discussion. As regards the detailed amendments, we will certainly lean on them during the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. Podlaskie Voivodeship, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. Your Marshal... In what mode, sir? In what mode? It's a formal matter. It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? Minister... Corrigendum. Corrigendum. Please, just don't exceed this mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u107	Minister, you said a list of shame, 2680 km. I have a polite request: if we are talking about this, I would ask you very much to show how many lines have been closed in 1997-2001. This liquidation would not have been possible if it had not been for the 2000 decision to commercialise and privatise the PKP and set up a hundred companies. Why don't you add some more information about who just privatized some companies so much that today's telecommunications is outside this group? Energy isn't there either. I would very much ask you to simply point out here not only the SLD, but also the governments of AWS and the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u108	Mr President, that was not a corrigendum. Minister, let's not continue. You're really out of time, Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! I address Mr Szczepański. I have a detailed list of what premieres have wiped out which railway lines and how many of these lines have been wiped out on specific dates, at a specific time. I propose to speak to you after the Sejm meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u110	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jerzy Polaczek, also responded to the questions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some comments on how to discuss the second reading and the amendments tabled. There's a dozen of them. I've looked at them, some of them have been presented before... There were no questions for the rapporteur, Mr President. But I am referring to the discussion and these amendments and the issues raised by the Members, all the more so because some of these amendments have been rejected. I have made a very, you can say, elementary argument, which accompanied the lack of them during the committee's work. I would like to address two points, because they have reappeared. There will be a discussion again on the amendment aimed at adding an article. 38h on the allocation of the State budget for the financing of local and regional infrastructure managers unrelated to the main managers of the national networks of Poland and other countries, provided that the length of the network they manage does not exceed 300 km, regardless of the obligation to make the infrastructure available. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have made it clear in my report that it is unacceptable to introduce such a provision in the Rail Transport Act, on the basis of which we introduce unlimited, unconditional and mandatory infrastructure financing, which may not even be made available or operated. After all, it is probably obvious to anyone who is responsible for public funds, especially that according to the previous wording of the law in this area This is an optional option. And the second point to which I would like to address is the proposal to clarify - in quotes - the content of the Act in such a way that the land remaining on the lines and sidings removed can be transferred with the permission of the Minister to the local government units for transport purposes. I would like to refer here to this discussion and repeat the argument which accompanied the rejection of such a proposal in the course of the work: municipalities, maybe except Warsaw or several other large units of local government, cannot afford to maintain their own railway or tram infrastructure, and from the point of view of the state it is important to preserve these aspects of planning and space, i.e. to maintain the corridor, because such railway infrastructure in the future can be reconstructed. In conclusion, I would once again like to stress and express my satisfaction as rapporteur for the committee because, in fact, all parliamentary clubs supported this good government proposal to amend the Rail Transport Act and a number of other laws. About an hour. 13 it is planned to launch a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee to consider these amendments. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and also the Minister for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to submit an additional report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (prints Nos 115 and 143). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, print No 115. At yesterday's meeting, the committee unanimously supported this proposal and I ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u114	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Piotr Uściński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u115	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government bill amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. On 4 October 2018, the Sejm amended the Personal Income Tax Act. A service was introduced to fill out a tax return by the National Tax Administration without the need to submit any application by the taxpayer. At the first stage, this service was made available for settlement for 2018 to taxable persons who are not engaged in business activities and who make a statement on PIT-37 and PIT-38 forms. I wanted to congratulate the Ministry here and thank you because this first stage was introduced very efficiently. 7 million Poles made use of this service, which shows that it has really become universal and accessible. At the second stage, a further part of this service was to be implemented, for subsequent taxpayers, and this second stage of course comes into force, while the scope of this service to provide pre-filled tax returns is slightly changing because there is a risk of failure to comply with these deadlines and of a certain number of errors. Thus, the proposal of this law by the government is a reasonable proposal which, from the point of view of the responsibility of the public administration, is very good for the security of data made available to taxpayers. I am pleased that the committee adopted it unanimously, without any substantive amendments. There were legislative amendments, formal amendments, but there were no substantive amendments. Unanimously, all the clubs in the committee voted in favour. Therefore, Law and Justice also recommend the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u116	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In times of truth deficit with such a detailed solution regarding the PIT tax I would like a little bit about the truth. Because however you look at it, we as Poles have a lot of merit in terms of truth. After all, it is not anyone other than Alfred Tarski, the Polish logic, who first correctly defined the truth, after 2,5 thousand. The years of European civilization's attempts in this area. But I think we will not talk about Tarski here, but rather about another outstanding philosophy, one of the most outstanding Polish philosophers, Fr. Joseph Tischner, who said of the truth that the truth is divided into three categories: truth, holy truth, and - unproudly added - bullshit. In the case of this project, we are dealing repeatedly with this third category distinguished by Fr. Professor Tischner. Because here we have a draft of amendments, in which the explanatory memorandum is practically in the first sentence, that the proposed solutions change the scope of the service of providing personal income tax to taxpayers by tax authorities with pre-filled tax returns. Is that true? That's because it's not true. But I guess that's the Tischner bullshit after all. 'Cause what's this range change? This change in scope, which is so enigmaticly included here, is nothing more than an extension of the date of entry into force of this service. This whole bill only serves that purpose. The release of tax returns filled by tax authorities has been launched long ago, in the times of the Civic Platform and PSL governments, and this has been regularly implemented. But in 2015 it happened that PiS came to power and began to introduce standard PiS solutions. Because neither the Ministry nor the IRS had to do it. Just what? You've created a special company to handle this, the company of Critical Applications. And at that point, Critical Applications began to critically fail to deal with it. But back to Tischner. Would it be false to say that, Minister, Critical Applications as a company are not working, but is it true? Well, neither can I. It's the third category of Tischner again - bullshit. Because they do not do anything about applications, but pay for it, and they are solid, regularly and on time members of the Board and employees of Critical Applications are paid. As this bill does not really change anything except that good solutions for taxpayers are postponed in time, the Civic Platform will not support this project. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u118	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u119	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna take up any of your precious time because I'm keeping up everything I said yesterday. It's just some kind of complete failure. The fact that we have a system that we can't give to micro-entrepreneurs is that they're one of the most burdened groups, and they still have logs and we're still not making it easy for them, that's really scandalous. We should probably all vote against this proposal as Members. I thank your predecessor that you may have changed your mind because yesterday you wanted to support this project. I believe that we should all vote against, and the Left will also vote against, because - I support my opinion - this lack of progress, that retreating in the computerization of public administration is an example that the PiS state is a state Not even from a cardboard box, it's from clay tablets. It's the 19th century, not the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen! We really should all reject this proposal unanimously, and I ask you to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u120	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Czesław Siekierski will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account the arguments that recent changes in the legislative environment that were not foreseen in the first stage of the preparation of this service and which first affect the construction made available through the tax portal of certain tax forms... It seems that we do not have the option very much, but we must accept the delay in entering this service in some areas, because simply the reality is that the administration is not prepared to implement it. Therefore, we can go in a different direction, but this will mean that this range of services will not be possible. Therefore, in my view, the shift in the second stage will allow, hopefully, for better preparation of mechanisms for obtaining data from external registers, necessary to supply pre-filled forms made available to the taxpayer by tax authorities through the tax portal to ensure their correctness and security. At the same time, everything must be done to ensure that the tax administration can carry out this range of services to taxpayers as soon as possible, taking into account all necessary requirements. An important problem that causes delays in the settlement of an entrepreneur with a fiscus is the date of 15 February. This leads to the holding of the taxpayer's money which is due to him as part of the accounts that may be due to him. So maybe you need to shorten the deadline, payback period. It also raises doubts and creates some difficulties for the whole tax system too complex, not transparent, which requires new, simple adjustments taking into account new technical, socio-economic conditions. I think there is such a expectation that the finance department will prepare a holistic, new approach that would simplify the entire tax system in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. And we begin to ask questions. So far, the questions have been raised by Mr Artur Łącki. Are there still Members who would like to speak on this issue? If not, please ask the Member for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u123	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I want to apologize right away because I've made a run to tell you about other financial matters. I couldn't say it yesterday, so today's the minute. Mr... It's the same thing, Marshal. But these are taxes, same thing. ... The substantive question, and it's up to your invention. You don't have to explain yourself. Thank you very much. Minister! The new rules introduce an obligation to exchange funds for online equipment from specific industries. And so on. fiscal cash registers for hotels will be valid from 1 July this year. The purchase of these cash registers amounts to spending between PLN 1000 and PLN 3000, but the cheapest ones do not meet the requirements of large hotels and resorts in any way. The budget finances 90% but not more than 700 PLN, which is not much, given the price of the cash registers. You have to take into account that there may be 10 in hotels like this and 20 in large ones. These are the requirements for handling larger hotels and resorts. Many entrepreneurs in the industry, with whom I had the opportunity to talk about it, suggested that it would be better to allow taxpayers to exchange money (the bell) on the day when the fiscal module will run out of memory. Certainly not everyone would fit in, they would have done so by July 2020, but they would have systematically borne the expenses they are calculating. The money would still be adapted to the statutory requirements, and this 700 PLN would be a specific discount for entrepreneurs. It is also worth considering that June and July are a period of intensive work for the hotel industry. Then, too, seasonal objects resume their activities. The exchange of cash in the middle of the season across the entire industry can generate many problems, and the cash register services can fall victim to a failure of the crop. Time. Therefore, I would ask the applicants to consider the arguments I have put forward and, in a kind manner, they submitted them in the form of an amendment. I'll help you if you need me. Please, let's not make life difficult for entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u124	The Member has properly made a statement. Now that the list of Members has been closed, I ask that Mr Jan Sarnowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the course of the speeches and questions, there were a number of issues that require a short address. Firstly, the government does not withdraw from the tax return service for entrepreneurs. The service is constantly improved in such a way that the statements made available are even more complete. Part of the services dedicated to entrepreneurs will be available as part of the e-Tax Office project, which the Ministry of Finance is currently working on. The improved service will be made available as soon as possible. This is so important that figures show that more and more taxpayers are being cleared electronically. Not only as part of your e-PIT service, but also as part of your e-Corporate system. This is therefore the functionality expected by the business. Your e-PIT service in 2019 benefited almost 7 million taxpayers, and from the settlement of taxpayers in the e-Secretary system - as many as 13 million PITs. Thus, in a form other than paper, a total of around 20 million PIT taxpayers accounted for last year. The discussion also raised a question about changes in taxes dedicated to small business. I'm just gonna name a few of them. Firstly, the CIT reduction for small enterprises first from 19% to 15% in 2017, and then up to 9% in 2019. The 90% preferential CIT rate can be applied by companies whose revenues did not exceed 1200 thousand. Euros. In 2018, the right to benefit from a 15% tax rate was 460 thousand. taxpayers, 71% CIT taxpayers paying tax. Thanks to the reduction of the entrepreneur's rate Only in 2017, they gained almost PLN 400 million and in 2018 - PLN 600 million. In 2019 as a result of the next reduction, entrepreneurs will save more than PLN 400 million, a total of PLN 1 billion. Secondly, there has been a tripled limit for one-off credit to the cost of obtaining revenue for the purchase of fixed assets - out of 3.5 thousand. Up to 10,000. zł. Thanks to this solution, entrepreneurs will gain about PLN 400 million annually. Third, a one-off depreciation was introduced on the newly acquired new fixed assets of EUR 100,000. PLN per year. Thanks to this relief almost 90% Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have to absorb purchased machinery at all. In 2018, only around 150 thousand benefited from the scheme. companies that have saved around PLN 100 million. The last of the mentioned regulations - increase the limit of one-off settlement of losses to PLN 5 million. With this solution, it could gain about 150,000. taxpayers who saved a total of PLN 200 million. As regards the question about the deadline for reimbursement of overpayments in CIT, I would like to remind you that the time limits for refunds are being reduced. The last change in this area took place with the introduction of your e-PIT service, i.e. from January 2019, the repayment period was reduced from 3 months to 45 days. The Ministry of Finance would like to answer a question on-line on a written basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. There is no rapporteur for Mr Jerzy Małecki in the Chamber. So I'm closing the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law on the establishment of the Polish Science Day (prints Nos 116 and 127). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I present a report on the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Polish Science Day, contained in print No 116. The committee's report is contained in print No 127. The Commission shall meet at two meetings on 8 January this year. carried out the first reading, considered the bill and brought, the High Sejm, its adoption. According to Art. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The committee shall also submit four minority proposals to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm at the request of the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u128	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Zbigniew Girzyński to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Can we reschedule for later? Good. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Barbara Nowack. There's an acceleration, Marshal. Or is Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bard in the Chamber? The committees are sitting. In that case, I am announcing a five-minute break so that we can invite Members who will act on behalf of the clubs. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 10 hours 12 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 15 of the agenda. Although there is an acceleration, the secretariats of the clubs could also inform Members of such situations. Did your colleagues report this to the parliamentary club yet? Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I have a great pleasure to speak on this law. As regards issues related to the establishment of the Polish Science Day on 19 February, as a representative of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, I should be pleased because it is the birth date of our patron, patron of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. So that the date is most hit for Polish science. The question arises as to what is the point of establishing this day. After all, if we only want to establish this holiday to replace or somehow retaliate for the mess that arose in Polish education, which was created in Polish higher education, it is not enough. Above all, our education, our higher education needs big investment in the development of science. If we look at the European average, we are somewhere between Albania and Belarus in terms of spending on higher education. This is a disaster. I may be wrong, because it could be an outlay at most between Romania and Bulgaria. That could be the level, possibly the difference. Polish science does not expect us to set another holiday. He expects us to increase our resources so that we can increase our expenditures. At the moment, the Polish science is dominated by punks. Points are more valuable for articles in the Polish angler than for scientific monographs. Right now, there's a momentum to get as many points as possible, not to develop scientifically. In addition, we also see the incredible depreciation of Polish humanities by focusing primarily on issues related to the development of technology, technology. We forget what was very important in Polish science, of which Polish science was famous. I spoke to my friends in the scientific community who I had very close contact with. Unfortunately, the situation is that this law, which has been introduced, is supposed to close down smaller universities, leave only a few of the largest which are to be dominant, which are not going to function well, without having the right facilities yet. That's not a good solution. Polish science does not expect another holiday. Our universities celebrate festivals related to their patrons, celebrations related to the days of science. That's enough, you don't have to sanction it with another holiday. It is enough to support our science, it is enough to support universities in their best efforts to develop their scientific staff, not to use some substitute measures in the form of a new holiday. Besides, it's a beautiful holiday on October 14, i.e. National Education Day. We can hook up this day of science. We don't need any more new dates on our calendar. I would like to say that, unfortunately, over the last four years, we have seen a huge drop in the possibilities of our universities. There are only a few elite schools, while in the case of smaller schools, which so far have been an excellent forge of talent and young scientists, at the moment their regression begins. The reason is also the latest reform introduced by Prime Minister Gowin. We do not agree to any substitute measures in the form of holidays. The most important is the financial means for the functioning of our universities and, above all, peace, because Polish science needs peace and such a long-term policy. The point is that it's known that the research doesn't close within a year. Research lasts for many, many years. This cannot be closed during any annual period where a score is used, where only annual expenditures are used. Such changes should be made to education, not to create another new holiday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Girzyński will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored to have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to support the proposal which, as members of this club, we have tabled on the establishment of a new holiday to commemorate the contribution of Polish scholars to the development of not only Polish, European, but also world science. It is common sometimes to tell, completely unnecessary, Poles that we are in the habit of celebrating only sad events, failed uprisings and various national tragedies. Nothing more wrong. Polish history is a band of great successes and although there have also been difficult moments in our history, yet, looking from the perspective of more than 1050 years on our history, you can say that there are no stories more beautiful than yours and more boastful than being a Pole. This wonderful national tradition, in which our predecessors, Members of numerous Parliaments of the Republic of Poland in various political systems, are also involved, and Polish scholars have their place here. The pleiade of Polish noble scientists from various fields is slightly marked only in the justification for the draft of this law, but it was necessary to identify a person who in some way symbolized this multigenerational contribution of Polish scientists to the development of Polish science. We had a very intense discussion on this at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. There were also other alternative proposals for the date of celebrating the new holiday. I will only mention that this is not a day off from work, but a holiday which is supposed to enable some kind of celebration of achievements of Polish science. And because of the search for a person who would be a kind of symbol of this contribution of Polish scientists, there was an idea that the date of this holiday would be the birthday of Nicolaus Copernicus. I am particularly pleased as a representative of the city in which Mikołaj Kopernik was born on 19 February and where the university of his name is located, where I have the honour to be a professor, to support this idea, because there is no better candidate among the pleiades of Polish scholars who would have such a global brand that would be recognized in every corner of the world. With great respect for the achievements of all Polish scholars, Mikołaj Kopernik is the one who - as the inscription on his monument says - stopped the Sun and moved the Earth. This is what children living in different latitudes and longitudes know. Therefore, I was happy to support this proposal and this project. I am pleased that we have an excellent opportunity to mention among the achievements of the pleiades of Polish citizens: Polish musicians, Polish politicians, Polish athletes, also those who in often very difficult conditions... I share the concern of many at the committee meeting and today of people, including the Member, about the condition of Polish science, about funding. There is, in fact, no believe me, and I am also a researcher of the history of parliamentarianism, a period in our history, so that the Members of the Sejm do not complain that the means for learning are not too much. You'd always want more. Believe me, there were even fewer at the time of Nicolaus Copernicus, and that science was moving forward. I'm convinced... I hope that this holiday will also motivate every government, every parliamentary majority, but also a minority, so that always in their modest budget search there will be funds for the successors of Mikołaj Copernicus, Maria Skłodowska-Curie and many other outstanding Polish scholars to continue their work and that all of us employees of Polish science have the satisfaction that our achievements among all kinds of achievements in a total of 50 generations of Poles are also appreciated. I ask you to support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition will speak to Barbara Nowack. Civic, not the Coalition of Poland yet. Oh, I'm sorry, but I think that's okay with Poland. Great, but we care about the truth. Sorry, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, it is my honor to present our position on this project. First of all, it is a good opportunity to emphasize the role and rank of Polish science, because these are not only discoveries and scientific research, they are not only a contribution to world science, but above all the source of identity and the binding of Polish tradition, history. It was at Polish universities that language, historical traditions, scientific traditions were cultivated. The university was the source of free thought and courage. It was at universities that they fought for independence, fought for independent Poland. It was the universities that finally developed theories, which were often controversial for scientists and for the world of science, but then it turned out that the ration was on the side of these great brave people, women and men who, as they entered into scientific struggles, won duels with the state of knowledge at that time. Polish science for years requires funding and we all know that. It requires funding for a bigger and smarter one. It requires not only resources but also one more thing - giving universities full freedom, full research freedom. But there is no freedom, which every scientist knows perfectly well, without an adequate source of funding. But the symbols also matter. I really don't like empty gestures. This holiday, which the applicants are proposing today, unfortunately, has the mark of an empty gesture. Apart from the desire to celebrate and commemorate, there are no additional prizes, additional funds for the most evolving scientific disciplines. In fact, it's an appreciation of previous generations, but there's no indication of that, opening up to new generations. On the other hand, Polish science also needs such support, such appreciation in the eyes of the world, showing that Polish parliament and Polish society absolutely remember about scientists, and it is not only the great ones, such as Copernicus, Skłodowska-Curie, but also those who may be less remembered, about the brilliant school of Polish mathematics, about outstanding Polish historians, anthropologists, researchers of economics, language, biologists, and finally historians, who are sitting so much today in seymical benches. Poland would not be strong and wise if it were not for Polish science. That is why, for the sake of respect for its achievements, we will support the initiative itself, but hoping that applicants, instead of giving bread to the games, will remember that these games should really please someone. If scientists are offered games at a time when the revision session is taking place, then, you know, they can't celebrate very much. We appreciate the undisputed contribution of Nicholas Copernicus, but the justification that we heard in the committee - that applicants have just a unique sentiment for Nicholas Copernicus - makes us propose to give someone a rather modest gift, to give him a gift so that he can at least enjoy it. That's why we're asking for a different date. We propose a very symbolic term for Polish science much more contemporary, i.e. on December 10, the date on which for the first time Pole - Polka, Maria Skłodowska-Curie - received the Nobel Prize. It's a good term for academy workers, it's a good term for scientists, it's a symbolic term for thinking that science is not just a long time story, but also a way forward. We have made proposals, which are, of course, minority requests, to change the deadline. Once again, we will ask the High House to respect the will of many communities to celebrate when there is indeed a holiday atmosphere, not an atmosphere of very hard, tedious scientific work in evaluations. But the Civic Coalition Club, respecting the achievements of Polish science, will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u134	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak to speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Undoubtedly, the popularization of Polish science is necessary. As a country, as Poles and Poles, we have something to boast about and have something to celebrate. Poland can boast a lot of excellent scientists and scientists, who have often done impossible things, admired and appreciated all over the world without the support of the state. Although the establishment of the Polish Science Day is a good idea and as a club of the Left we will support it, I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the fact that such activities will not solve the real, gigantic problems that Polish science is facing. In the European Union's rankings on innovation and the level of spending on science, we are at the forefront, only from the end. Scientific and academic centers are underfunded, and the list of unfulfilled government promises is still growing. You could say the patient's dying. The establishment of his holiday, however pleasant it may be, will not fix the situation. Poland spends around 1% on R &amp; D GDP. That's well below the EU average. Polish educational expenditures have been in place for years. Further governments are changing, while science is still being treated as a stepmother. In this respect, too, there is nothing special to boast about law and justice. Yesterday we were debating a new budget. There is no significant increase in education expenditure in this budget, even though Minister Gowin promised this increase. According to European innovation reports, Poland is far in the innovation rankings. The data from these reports shows that we have a lot of catching up to do. Meanwhile, what does the government do? He's setting a holiday. I would add that in the rankings concerning expenditure on science and research in the public sector, scientific international cooperation or the number of doctoral degrees obtained, we are also at the gray end among the countries of the European Union. It must be made clear that Mr Gowin's reform proved to be a disaster. The people of science still have to face very low wages for work. Minister Gowin promised a raise of about 10% per year. Where are the raises? Changes in education in the rule of law and justice are chaotic and do not produce the expected results. It is worth recalling here - that you do not accuse that these are the words of the opposition - the statement of the National Science Section of the NSZZ These factors contribute to the deterioration of the relationship between employees and the academic community and the employer and contribute to the lack of continuity of research. The establishment of the Polish Science Day is, of course, not a bad thing. As I said, the Left Club will support your initiative, but it is clear to us that a real reform would be a much better gift for Polish science. We need, among other things. much more invest in research and development, and Polish scientists and scientists should be fairly rewarded for their work, which would translate directly into the strength and prestige of our country. And if, ladies and gentlemen, we would really like to honor the memory of Nicolaus Copernicus, then the Lewis Club will propose the creation of a programme to promote innovation precisely the name of Nicolaus Copernicus, which will provide for real funds to support research, development and innovation in Polish science. Two more words about choosing a date. On February 19th, it's a session, whether it's an amendment session or a semester break. This does not allow special celebration of the day of learning. Therefore, as a club of the Left, during the committee's proceedings, we made a request from the minority to establish this day on the birthday of Maria Skłodowska-Curie, a scientist not less prominent than Mikołaj Kopernik, or 7 November. This date is also followed by the fact that on 10 November the World Day of Science for Peace and Development is celebrated and we could celebrate together with the whole world, because science is certainly an area that exceeds the limits: limits of courage, limits of imagination, but also borders of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u136	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Grzegorz Braun to speak on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! The High Izbo Act! The Confederation will be happy to support the project concerning the establishment of the Polish Science Day, if we agree that it will be a day of national mourning and flags taken halfway to the mast will be taken a krem. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, well, that's the joyous work, the problem state, the rocks we put on with cutouts. Instead of strengthening the state, making our geopolitical, economic situation a reality, let's make another holiday. The honourable Member says that Minister Gowin's reform has failed. I'm making a mistake. It worked perfectly. An integrated system of girdles has been developed for sneaky men, crèches, which can be used by machers from science. My favourite NAWA - National Academic Exchange Agency, which in its statutory plans, has obligations, ladies and gentlemen, the popularization of Polish language teaching outside the borders of the Republic. That's great. Centre of Łukasiewicz, Foundation for Polish Science - Minister Gowin knows how to set up his people. And that's the thing that might surprise a man who's attached himself to the fact that he's just a science man, the Deputy Prime Minister. But this is a dry Smolensk liar, the minister of injustice of the government of public insidiousness and national betrayal, who today, as part of a good change, promoted to the role of one of the leading patriots who here raises a white and red banner. I have mentioned this in my pre-parliamental life, so I would like to repeat it and now that if Poland, ladies and gentlemen, if the Polish state returns to its historical form in our lifetime, then to Minister Gowin, I fear, the people of the capital, if it ever sobered up, may find a place on one of the nearby lighthouses near the square of the Three Crosses. I have said this in my pre-parlamentary life, I repeat from this tribune: the Smolensk liar, who from this tribune assured you, then to your great outrage, that with the Smolensk coffins everything is lege artis. Right? That's what he said from that bleacher. Today, of course, you've cut the past with a big line and this man will wipe his own... Well, what's his beautiful imagination gonna tell him? He will talk about Polish science, Polish tradition, Polish statehood. Half of poverty when he says it from here. Worse, when he bid down a Polish case from across the Atlantic, e.g. in cases like historical memory. Let us remind you that the statements of Deputy Prime Minister Gowin were very important in the process of surrender, regarding the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. She was involved, right, with this pathetic journey to Canossa by your parliamentarians, the Euro-parliamentarians who were negotiating this case at the Mossad villa near Tel Aviv, as the Israeli media reported. Ladies and gentlemen! So let the Polish Science Day be established whenever you want, in December afternoon or February during the break that students spend, chasing indexes after their professors. But let it be a feast of mourning. This great vacuum cleaner for Polish innovation, Polish patents included Minister Gowin, connecting Polish science to the scoring system. Ask him one question, and maybe I'll come back here and ask him: What part of the Polish science budget will go to pay for those articles that are necessary (the bell) to be placed for the score to follow the path of a scientific career? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u138	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We proceed with the questioning. Five Members are on the list. Is there anyone else who would like to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas. You have come forward. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of establishing another public holiday, the festival of Polish science, it is difficult - at least me - to perceive differently than as an attempt to treat complexes and distract from the real problems of Polish science. Instead of reminding that Poles contributed to the development of astronomy or inventing a kerosene lamp, we should lean on the current state of our science. Poland is one of the countries of the European Union which spends the smallest part of GDP, only 1% For research and development. It has a fatal outcome in assessing the innovation defined by the so-called. Total innovation rate 56 with the EU average 100. A small percentage of Polish universities are ranked in the ranking of the first 500 in the world. I will remind you that in 2019 there were only two universities. Scientists are badly paid. After raising the minimum wage, the professor in Poland will earn on average 2,4 minimum wages. The establishment of another holiday in no way will change the situation of Polish science. In this way you will not conquer the hearts of Polish scientists. If you want to celebrate Polish science, instead of establishing another holiday (the bell), try to change its bad condition. I want to ask the question: Is this holiday supposed to be a day off from work? Because I didn't find it anywhere. I didn't read it. It's all in the bill. It's not gonna be a day off from work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u140	Thank you very much. I would now ask you to ask Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicants of the project in its explanatory memorandum state that the Polish Science Day will be an expression of the highest respect for the achievements of Polish scientists of past and contemporary times. It will inspire, strengthen social prestige and interest in science. Meanwhile, Poland spends only 1.3% on research in 2018 GDP and the 2020 budget does not anticipate an increase in this effort. By comparison, Sweden spends 3.4% on learning , and in Poland in the years 2013 and 2018 growth Totally, it was 0.09%. On the other hand, the National Science Section of the NSZZ.Solidarity, assessing our reforms of higher education, wrote: We are observing the growing organisational chaos, the feeling of uncertainty of employees, universities, research institutes and contradictions in the introduced law. These factors contribute to the lack of continuity of research. I would therefore like to ask the applicants and Deputy Prime Minister Gowin a question. Don't you think that a better expression of appreciation (the bell) for Polish scientists would be, however, to strengthen funding rather than to establish a science day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u142	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Maciej Gdula, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I like Christmas very much, which emphasizes the importance of various professional groups. I like Barborka very much, I like firefighter's day very much. I'm serious. I really like these days. And that's why I'm glad it's gonna be science day and so scientist day, scientist day. At the same time, I cannot think in the context of this new holiday about what damage the reform of Prime Minister Gowin caused in Polish science. This is a law that not only introduces some new rules, it destroys what was good in Polish science. And as I think about the day of science, about the fact that scientists will gather to celebrate then, I also think right away that at many universities they will not gather in scientific councils and councils of the institute, because the reform of the Gowina introduced (the bell) the unobligatoryness of university self-government. My question is, will those in the PiS who opposed Minister Gowin support the changes in the bill that will surely come? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u144	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this is another holiday, but we must first of all take care of a group of teachers who have protested and protested as far as wages are concerned. I co-organized many teacher protests in Bialystok and I think that we should start with this first and then celebrate these days, because our education and people working there are in a desperate state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u146	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to ask Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u147	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Establishment of the Polish Science Day. But apart from the fact that you want to celebrate probably not the best condition of Polish science, given the indicators, what percentage GDP is transferred to Polish science? Is there going to be any specific, more funding for this, because unfortunately this is not seen in the draft budget for 2020? And if you make this day a holiday, will you also inform our citizens more widely, what damage is being done in the educational process at the moment? Although it is necessary to recall Ms Zalewska's pseudoreform, double yearbooks, crowded schools, chaos, lack of real funding opportunities and among others. deprivation... This is the Ministry of Education, sir. It's not higher education. Member, please, we do not discuss from the benches. ...missary, many people who graduated from high school (the bell), high school, the possibility of getting into their dream studies because you accumulated your yearbooks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u148	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I just wanted to ask if the Minister realized what university Maria Curie-Skłodowska worked at. She went to private school. If 12 Polish universities are located in the first seven hundred world universities, which are in the first place? Private schools from the Ivy League in America. The question is what was really done to make Polish universities better. Which means they have to be privatized. Who's gonna take it? Is any man in Poland ready to say on the occasion of the Polish Science Day that they need to be privatized? Instead, we engage and the Minister says he will lay down for freedom of speech. For example, if someone wants to criticize LGBTZ, then the Minister will lie down in Rejtan and not allow such a discussion at universities, right? The same applies, for example. Polish universities, which spread a lie about global warming for state money. There may be scientific discussions, of course, but you shouldn't get involved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please ask Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u151	Prime Minister! Minister! I have a question, a proposal that the Polish Science Day, if we adopt it, be such a day of reflection on the state of Polish science so that we can hear here, in the Sejm, the information of the Ministry, how the law is implemented, what are the achievements of the Polish science, what are the problems, that such a discussion, such a conversation, is also conducted at the level of regions, individual universities. Because what's the problem? It turns out that when it comes to our participation in the use of EU funds and, in general, in science, they are shared at European level and we are introducing more EU funds than we obtain for science, for research in Poland. There is, of course, a problem that there are few Polish proposals, there are few of us in the monitoring committees evaluating projects, because it is often better for scientists (the bell) to seek funds from their marshal. In the first place, they go to buildings, then to laboratories, and only at the end do they go to finance young, talented scientists who are simply making an important contribution. This funding must be adequate for progress, all the more so - I am finishing - that in Europe we are focusing on knowledge-based development, research, scientific progress. And here is the direction that is most effective in economic development - research, progress, of course, preceded by education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u152	Thank you very much. The list of Members who are registered to ask questions has been exhausted. So now I ask the State Secretary to speak at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Wojciech Maximowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the opinion of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the draft law on the establishment of the Polish Science Day meets the expectations of the scientific community, which has repeatedly raised the need to establish a holiday highlighting the achievements of Polish scientists. This need is shared by the Ministry of Science. The establishment of this holiday will be an opportunity to sum up and popularize the modern activities of scientists. It will also be an opportunity to celebrate together for the whole scientific community in the involvement of academic centres, scientific institutes and other institutions. It is also an impulse to create new initiatives that will show the beauty and value of science. The establishment of this feast on 19 February, on the birthday of Nicolaus Copernicus, is a special recognition for his outstanding achievements for all mankind. The figure of an outstanding astronomer and his achievements are known worldwide. During the work of the Sejm committee, we discussed different deadlines, ultimately remaining on the proposed date on 19 February. It is worth noting that the Sejm committee almost unanimously supported the entire proposed law. This shows consensus on this initiative. If this is the decision of the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic to adopt the bill, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education will be actively involved in the popularization of this holiday. Each year, the most outstanding Polish scientists are rewarded for their achievements in various fields and areas. The Resort of Science is already taking the initiative this year, that every year on 19 February the Polish Science Gala will take place. During the gala prizes will be given for teaching, innovation, organizational, scientific and overall achievements. This event will highlight this particular day. In view of the above position, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education welcomes and supports the draft law on the establishment of the Polish Science Day, print No 116. As to the questions addressed to Prime Minister Gowin as Minister for Science and Higher Education, if they are formulated on the basis of the protocol, the Ministry will, of course, respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. Ms Joanna Borowiak, draftsman of the committee, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u155	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The Parliamentary bill on the establishment of the Polish Science Day is an important and necessary project - it has not been so far - carrying out a valuable initiative to honor the achievements of Polish scientists, their efforts to get to know the law, transfer knowledge to subsequent generations. The idea of applicants was to combine the idea of Members of various political options. That's what we heard during the committee's work. And although it is regrettable that this did not happen - both during the committee's work, during the meeting and during the second reading here, in the plenary room of the Sejm - we all bowed down in discussions on matters concerning Polish science and the achievements of Polish scientists, and this is important. Here I would like to thank the representatives of the various clubs who presented their positions today, and they confirmed in their conclusion that this bill would support their vote in favour of it. We have also heard this statement today: Polish science needs appreciation in the eyes of the world. Yes, we agree, we want Polish scholars to appreciate Polish science in the eyes of the whole world. We also have the chance to appreciate Polish scientists, the achievements of Polish science just through the adoption of this project, to appreciate here, at home, in Poland. We have the chance as members of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, but also as Members of the 9th term of office to establish a celebration of Polish science. And personally as a member of the Toruń-Włocławski district, I am very pleased that it is on the birthday of Nicolaus Copernicus, patron of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, that will be celebrated if the High Sejm so decides, and I hope so, the Polish Science Day. Thank you all for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u156	Thank you very much, Member. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts (print No 114). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Waldemar Buda to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Funds and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts, print No 114. Ladies and gentlemen! The project implements the assumptions provided for in the Responsible Development Strategy, as it will enable measures to build capital for development to be implemented as a pillar of the Responsible Development Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers in February 2016. Following the paradigm challenged by our predecessors that the funds collected by Poles at OFE represent their pension savings, it is desirable to direct funds from OFE to the instrument of individual pension accounts and to strengthen the possibility of building private pension savings. At the same time, it should be stressed that under the current scheme, insured persons do not receive pensions from open pension funds. As a result of the operation of the so-called. the safety slider all its pension contributions eventually go to the Social Insurance Institution before the insured person reaches the retirement age. Thus, it is not even possible to list the projected payments from open pension funds against individual pension accounts. It is therefore justified to assume that the proposed change will be carried out to the benefit of the current members of open pension funds, even if they are entitled to remain in the capital pillar until the retirement age is reached, without being forced to transfer their funds to the Social Insurance Institution as it is now. In view of the above, changes need to be made to strengthen the Polish pension system announced in 2016 and to form a strong second pillar of this system, which will be based on individual instruments such as universal individual pension accounts, available to everyone and powered by funds currently in the OFE. The present draft law therefore envisages redesigning the model of operation of OFE, based on the following assumptions. General pension societies, managing open pension funds, will become investment fund associations and OFE will become specialised open investment funds. The net assets of OFE will be transferred to the IKE, run through specialised funds opened by the association of investment funds. The investment policy of the SFIO converted from OFE will be adapted to the age and risk profile of the insured. As a substitute for the income tax levied on pensions paid from the FUS, from the Social Insurance Fund, a conversion fee of a total of 15% will be collected on funds transferred to IKE. , whose payment will be spread over 2 years and to which SFIO will be required, i.e. special investment funds open. The amount of the levy corresponds to the level of effective taxation of current pensions in the first, of course, tax threshold. It will be possible for a member of OFE to make a declaration on the transition to the ZUS, which will involve the transfer of assets from OFE to the Demographic Reserve Fund and adding their value to the capital recorded in an individual account in the ZUS. No conversion fee will be charged when choosing this option, but future pensions payments, like all others, will be taxed on income tax. The management of FRD funds will be carried out by an investment fund whose sole shareholder is the Polish Development Fund, within the framework of a diversified investment policy, for the benefit of the Polish economy. To discuss the main assumptions of the proposed law, it should be noted first that the OFE will cease its activities in the current formula and become investment funds that will manage the IKE, where the assets of individual insured persons are located, derived from their accounts at the OFE. Every insured person will have the right to choose. The default option will be to transfer funds from OFE to private IKE, with the possibility of further powering it, but already completely voluntary. If the insured person passes to the IKE, his future pension contributions will be recorded in a ratio of 12.22 to the basic account and 7.3 to the sub-account. On the other hand, no part of the pension contribution will be imposed on the IKE. However, in the case of persons who decide to transfer funds from OFE in full to the first pillar, to the ZUS, these funds will be recorded in individual accounts held in the ZUS and the corresponding assets will be transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Information on the amount of assets transferred to the FRD will be recorded in the account of the insured person in the ZUS, then all pension contributions will be recorded in full on the basic account. The status of the insured person's sub-account will no longer increase due to the income of the current pension contribution. It will only be subject to valorization. The choice between IKE and ZUS insured will only be possible once - on the occasion of the entry into force of the Act. In the future, it will not be possible to transfer funds from OFE between IKE and ZUS. For those who were just part of the social security system, after the entry into force of the Act, the pension contribution will only be registered in the basic account. The transfer of funds from OFE to IKE will cover anyone who has collected funds in the OFE and does not make a declaration of transition to the ZUS, except for persons who by 2 October 2021 will reach retirement age: 60 years for women and 65 years for men. All funds collected in OFE in the accounts of such persons will be transferred to the Social Security Office and recorded in the sub-accounts of those persons who existed at the time of the entry into force of the proposed law. The new IKE resulting from the transfer of funds of the insured person concerned from the OFE in respect of these measures, but no longer voluntary payments to his IKE, will operate on a different basis than the existing IKE. For example, these measures can only be paid once the retirement age has been reached. There will be no need to conclude an IKE agreement, but neither will it be possible to terminate or terminate the IKE agreement on these measures. Thus, the IKE funds resulting from the transformation of OFE will only be available to the insured person once he has reached his retirement age. The funds collected on the sub-account, as so far, will be inherited in the same way as those from the IKE resulting from the transformation of OFE. The IKE resulting from the transfer of funds of the insured person from the OFE will have a safeguard mechanism for persons entering the pension period 5 years before the risk of the capital market. Under the new IKE there will be sub-funds - one sub-retirement fund created by automatic transformation of OFE, which will be able to be invested bolder in order to multiply assets, and the other, so-called. a pre-retirement fund that will be invested safer, in principle a minimum of 85% in bonds and similar security instruments. When the saver reaches the age of 5 years below the retirement age, his funds collected on the new IKE will be gradually transferred from the pension sub-fund to the pre-retirement fund every month. The IKE resulting from the transformation of OFE will be voluntarily added within the statutory limit of the aid to IKE laid down in the Act of 20 April 2004 on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. These funds will be available to the holder, as will the funds collected for the existing IKE. The functioning of the converted OFE will be based on the revised Act of 20 April 2004 on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. The proposed reform also requires changes in several dozen laws directly related to the operation of OFE and the social security system. The payment of funds from the IKE resulting from the conversion from the OFE will be free of any tax. Because of the fact that pensions... 15% You're on your way, Minister. Mr President, please don't discuss this. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Mr President, the payment of IKE funds converted from OFE will be free of any taxes. On the other hand, since ZUS pensions are taxed on PIT income tax at rates of 17 and 32% , in order to maintain systemic consistency, transfer of funds from OFE to IKE should be covered by a one-off flat-rate fee of 15% the value of the funds on the OFE account, broken down into two instalments. The payment of this fee will be a specialised investment fund opened by the transformation of OFE. It will be a non-tax transformation fee, the beneficiary of which will be the Social Insurance Fund. The money from OFE comes from pension contributions and must remain in the circulation of the pension system and therefore the funds from the conversion fee will be transferred to the Social Insurance Fund. This fee is a consequence of the fact that payments from the new IKE will be free of all taxes, i.e. all those charges that today are related to the exit from the public system. Finally, it must be pointed out once again that the proposed law is not intended to impose new or additional obligations on both the payer of the contributions and the insured against the current rules on the payment of social security contributions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have a decision ahead of us, which will be faced by more than 15 million people, whether we want to transfer funds and privatise them, to really transfer them to our own individual pension accounts - on average, it is over 10,000. zł, or transfer them to the Social Insurance Institution account, specifically to the Demographic Reserve Fund, writing them in the account. We hope that this law will try to rebuild the trust that Poles lost to the insurance system in 2014. Yeah, you're stealing from Poles, putting in a 15% racket. You're robbing Poles. Mr. Marshal, would you please calm the Member down? Excuse me. Minister, you'll wait a moment. Please do not disturb the Minister during his speech. The Member will have a chance to address him in his speech. Mr. Marshal, it's on behalf of the Poles being robbed. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: We are trying to restore confidence in the pension system, which was strained in 2013 and 2014. It's a security detail. Poles before the rerun of history, so that there will be no politicians who will want to use the funds of Poles gathered at OFE to patch the budget holes... But you're doing it. ...which took place in 2013 and 2014. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Mr... State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for a substantive debate on this law and I count on its final support. Thank you very much. If you don't know what you're saying, don't say it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u158	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Could I make a formal request? I ask that Mr Jerzy Bielecki speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal, I wanted a formal motion. You're welcome. But, Mrs... Formal conclusion. Formal conclusion. Why don't you make it up? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! I am formally proposing that in the debate on this extremely important point, because we are talking about over PLN 160 billion of pension savings of Poles, from which the government wants to steal 24 billion immediately, and the rest to invest in non-profit companies of the Treasury, they had for the club at least 10 minutes, not 5 minutes. This is really too serious. We are talking about the future of millions of Poles. In fact, it will not be an exaggeration if I say that we are talking about the future of Poland, because the pension system is actually the most important part of the financial system of the state. I'm asking you, Marshal, 10 minutes for the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u160	Thank you very much, Member. I just want to let you know that for a five-minute period of time, statements on behalf of the clubs have been granted, the Sejm has agreed. I also want to assure you that if you need more time to speak on behalf of the club, this will certainly not be blocked. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft Print Act No 114 amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. The Act, as enshrined in the title, will allow the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts in special open investment funds or in the Social Security Office, which will improve the pension system based on the four pillars linked to the Social Insurance Institution, individual pension accounts, individual pension security accounts and employee capital accounts. The main objective of the Act is to increase the rate of savings directly linked to the increase in Poles' income. Based on the experience gained so far from the functioning of the pension system, it can be concluded that among the main factors limiting the possibility of generating savings in Poland are among others.: the low level of financial assets of Poles, the lack of a general third pillar in the pension system, and the inefficiency of the current model of operation of OFE, resulting in low pensions from the second pillar. The proposed bill also implements the assumptions set out in the strategy for responsible development. It makes it possible to implement capital-building measures for development aimed at enhancing the financial security of citizens and stability of the public finance system, contributing to strengthening the local capital market and enhancing the potential of our economy. At the same time, it should be recalled that as part of the changes to the pension system introduced in 2014 there was a transfer of... Oh, transfer, very good point. ... 51.5% assets collected in open pension funds to the Social Security Office. Was there a racket then? But the pension tax is later... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...and this tax will certainly be higher than the 15% The ones you're talking about. But there was a racket back then or there wasn't? Excuse me. There was a request not to argue with the person who spoke. The above in combination with the use of so-called. safety slider, i.e. The mechanism of transferring the contributions of the individual from OFE to the Social Security Office within 10 years before the retirement age led to the actual liquidation of the capital pillar in the Polish pension system. These changes have undermined citizens' confidence in the capital market and the whole pension system. At the same time, the functioning of OFE in its short form is contrary to the objectives of the 1997 pension reform. With regard to the objectives, it should be considered that the proposed change will benefit existing members of the OFE, even if they are entitled to remain in the capital pillar until they reach the retirement age without transferring their funds to the Social Security Office, as is currently the case. In view of the above, it is necessary to make statutory changes to strengthen the Polish pension system, enabling the creation of a strong second capital pillar, which will be common individual pension accounts available to everyone and powered by funds currently in the OFE. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, being aware of the importance of this amendment for future pensioners and the development of the Polish economy, will support the government's draft print law No 114. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will now address Mrs Izabel Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u163	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! For some time now, the question of why this great law for all Poles, the law in which PiS is giving money to Poles, was transferred to time after the presidential election. Why will it not be realized now so that the Poles will be very happy, but it will only take place in June? Why do they not want to boast that they are giving money to people? They're stealing. Let President Duda shout at some rally that they only take 15% to the PiS Homeland. They could've taken everything. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. The fact that they could have taken everything said no one other than Deputy Minister Marczuk. Excuse me, President of the Polish Development Fund. The same Mr. Marczuk, who recently said that Poles would have starving pensions and that women would therefore have many children. The same Mr Marczuk, who previously criticized PiS pension ideas, then was the face of these ideas, being in their government, so that he would now sit in the Polish Development Fund with a salary which is higher than the annual income of many Poles. A month's salary. Of course. Attention Poles, PiS really takes your money, takes it back. There is no conversion of one State commitment to another. This was the case in 2014. In 2014 the Council - yes, the government of PO-PSL cut the bonds and every penny - every penny - their value was written down on the sub-account of every citizen. In the ZUS. No one lost a penny. That's what the Civic Platform with the PSL did, and we've written it down on the sub account. You know why? It is because the State agreed with the citizen many years ago that these funds would be inherited. Therefore they were transferred from OFE to the subaccount that they are inherited. We didn't fool anyone. What's the PiS doing? He robs you in broad daylight, takes 15% in broad daylight. Your savings. We're supposed to have $10,000 on average. zł, so he'll take 1500 zł away from you. And if you have $40,000. At OFE, it'll take away $6,000. But there are those at OFE who have 100,000. zł. Then you'll carry 15 grand to the PiS. Evil racket. This is more than a year's minimum pension. And what right exactly? What right does someone want to collect the income tax on the money we'll have at our disposal in the years 10, 20 or 30? It's not enough not to share this tax with the local government, it's called a transformation fee, because everything has to go into the pocket of the PiS. In fact, this bill has completely different goals than the future of pensioners. The purpose of this bill is this. Firstly, to scrape off PLN 24 billion, of which 17.5 billion already this year had to be included in the budget law in order to artificially balance the unsustainable budget. The second objective: pension savings of people who make a statement that they do not want Prime Minister Morawiecki and PiS to rob them, and they want these funds to be saved in the Social Security Office, to be transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund, but, attention, where will they be invested? In WIG20, i.e. in a company of the State Treasury. Do you know which companies of the Treasury? Managed by Pisiewiczów, who lost PLN 50 billion in the last year. PGE - do you know what the share price was in January 2015? Over PLN 19. What's it like today? Over PLN 7. Energa - in January 2015, when the Civic Platform with PSL ruled, the price of one share is almost 23 PLN, today 7.20. Those who transfer money to the IKE, besides the racket, will also have another problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, just a minute. Your money from IKE will be invested e.g. in PKP Cargo, which is in OFE wallets. In January 2015, the price of shares is 81 PLN, today - 21 PLN. Transfer of funds from OFE to IKE is a very bad business - at the entrance they will take 15% capital, you don't become the owner of this money, because what property it is, if you can't do anything with it, only when you're 60 or 65. What's more, you'll never turn them into a life-long pension. What you do to Poles is another step towards really hungry pensions. How are these people gonna turn this money into a life-long pension? People today live 80, 85, and even 90 years. Finally, the fact that these are the purposes of this law indicates who is leading this law. What does the Ministry of Development have to do with the pension system? Well, it's just that because Prime Minister Morawiecki five years ago invented some slides that he said were going to be 25%. GDP, and savings will grow and capital will bubble and multiply, and nothing has come out of it, investments are depressing, nobody wants to invest in the crazy country of PiS, where it is not known whether the courts are still functioning normally, they have come to the conclusion that they will take your money away from you, they will put it in depressing energy companies. That is why this is the Ministry of Development, because this is about the capital market, which in addition, after the failure of GetBack and because the Financial Supervision Commission does not function, does not perform any of its duties, it is simply also in collapse. So those who choose the IKE will be deceived, those who choose the ZUS will also be deceived - the sub-account and the lack of inheritance. And they realized that even Kurski's television was unable to lie to this horrible reality that Poles were preparing, so they postponed the decision of people to the period after the presidential election. And the last sentence. This was to be divided into 2 years, this racket was to be split equally, part in 2020, part in 2021, but they had to take 70% In 2020, because the budget is shattering at sea, it does not close. So, to lie to people about being balanced, they got 70%. Today. I wonder what you'll do if the Poles don't believe your lies at all and they don't transfer that money to the IKE. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u164	On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Magdalena Beyat will speak. Request for rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! OFE was a big mistake of the Polish pension system. The creation of open pension funds was a direct reason for creating a huge hole in the budget of the Social Security Office. The money that was short because they were received by private financial institutions, and the other governing teams had to subsidize, borrowing at home and abroad. There was no logic in this solution, at least if we look at the interests and welfare of citizens, but let's be honest, the interests of citizens were not about the creators of OFE. The left would be delighted if you took a responsible approach to the pension system and actually ended a sad retirement pension episode. The solution that we know from our own experience and from the example of other countries is inefficient, harmful and serves only financial institutions and markets. Due to the creation of OFE by the end of 2013, over PLN 330 billion of additional public debt was created because the ZUS had to pay a lion's share of the contributions to private institutions. In order to cover this hole and be able to pay pensions to today's pensioners, other governments had to borrow the loans I mentioned earlier. The Pillar in the form of OFE was and is still a pointless solution, and also ruining public finances and should be liquidated as soon as possible, but you do not intend to do so. Your change doesn't eliminate the criminal business in which banks produce starving pensions and wash their hands of all responsibility for the social consequences of their practices. You join this looting - you liquidate OFE by transferring the savings of Poles to IKE, which means you simply transfer them from your account to your account by taking a nipple commission at the same time. Banks will therefore continue to do their jobs and a transformation fee of 15% this is PLN 10 billion, which is just enough to save the supposedly sustainable 2020 budget. This is another example of taking pensioners hostage for the immediate benefit of the ruling team. From the point of view of public finances, the transfer of OFE's assets to IKE means an unprecedented donation of huge public money to private entities. The aim of this donation is to fund the stock market, and to provide financial institutions and their associated narrow groups with a source of profit, again at the expense of pensioners whose government is supposed to be defending. The fact that as a default solution in the Act it was assumed that it was to the IKE and not to the ZUS, will be transferred these funds, indicates that the interests of banks are more important to the government than the interests of citizens and citizens. The negative effects on public finances will start to be visible as early as 2022. This means that public debt will increase or taxes will have to be increased or other expenses reduced. This sounds paradoxical in the context of yesterday's bragging about a balanced budget for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of this law will consume huge public resources, but it is not able to solve any problems of the Polish pension system, on the contrary - it will in practice contribute to the further destruction of the social security system and will be a threat to our near future. The Left requests that this project be rejected at first reading and I encourage all of you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u166	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mrs Jolanta Fedak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe a few words about working on this bill. This is the bill delivered before 2 days in the evening to Members so that we can draw it up. That's the bill. This one looks like an arm drawn to the opposition to encourage her to cooperate. That's right. 100 pages of the bill, 50 pages of justification for this, about 50 pages of justification and regulations. I'm not talking about it because I'm sorry you can't read it for a day. This can be read, although this law amends 23 laws and compares it with these laws requires a good staff of people. But I ask how Poles should choose the default option that the ZUS offered them - because ignorance of the law is bad, right? - reading this bill, reading what's here. I am also asking what is the reason for such a sudden haste to introduce it immediately and, of course, to vote on the amendments immediately. It's not like it's an arm drawn to the opposition. This morning I heard such gentle, kind Members of Law and Justice who encouraged the opposition to cooperate, the President, the Prime Minister, who drew out that hand. I'm asking if it's this bill, the day before that, it's a hand out for cooperation. You want the default option to be that funds transferred from open pension funds to IKE will be subject to a handling fee, which is de facto income tax. This is the first time I've heard of charging this tax before. Who knows what income tax will look like in 20 years? Who does such manipulations? Only the one with impure intentions, I guess. And yes, about 20 billion will actually go to the Demographic Reserve Fund, which will be managed, as this law says - because I have just read it, but I would like to ask the Members of the PiS who have read it at all, even from here sitting... This will go to the Demographic Reserve Fund, which will be managed by the development fund. The Development Fund and the aforementioned editor Marczuk, who later served as Secretary of State. There's a metric in this bill that tells us what amendments are being made. This fund has tabled an amendment that, of course, it intends to increase the management fee for these funds. And so, if the assets there are 70 billion, this is going to be 70 million, if 80 is 80. And do you know how much it is now? At the moment it is 2 million - and salaries of people who work in ZUS, normal, budget salaries - and the rate of return is higher than the rate of return of OFE. That's pretty much what it looked like. For years and years. So I'm asking you, what would Marczuk's editor be doing there, who's threatening everyone that they won't have pensions. Yes, if they invest in this, the pension will only have Mr. Marczuk, and it's a pretty good pension, judging by the size of the management money. If you have an inheritance subaccount, what's the problem with moving the funds there? What's that? Probably just to discourage people from having the option to simply tell them not to transfer money to the ZUS and participate in this action, which was initiated many, many years ago by the editor Marczuk et Consortes, the likes who disgusted the public pension system just to create such hybrids. The pension system must be clear and transparent. Every citizen needs to know what kind of pension he's gonna get. It can't be like Jasi's fairy tales and sharing money with the capital market like thieves at night. It can't be the kind of laws that are put in the last minute and that a normal citizen is simply not able to understand. The diagnosis of this law is the next problem. It's a bunch of crap and bullshit. It is said that you should believe or change the paradigm. On what grounds? What's the evidence? Who's done any analysis before? The assessment of open pension funds (the bell) should be instantly. I am talking about this - I am finishing - that this assessment of pension funds should be preceded by this, so that you know what to do in this law. But no, you don't have the slightest desire to do that, because you have to transfer the money as soon as possible, get to it and spend it as soon as possible, after being considered, without any supervision, because we won't be in charge for those 10 and 15 years, and we won't be responsible for those pensions. We are, of course, in favour of rejecting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u168	Thank you very much. The Member has also submitted a request for rejection. Now, on behalf of the Confederate Circle, please take the floor of Mr James Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u169	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! There is no such wickedness or cruelty that would not otherwise be committed by a mild and liberal government if it ran out of money - said de Tocqueville and these words are valid under the rule of Law and Justice, they were valid under the rule of perhaps more delicate Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. 150 billion zlotys remain - probably Minister Leszczyna will protest here before this formulation - stolen by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL from OFE, when the government ran out of money. And now we have literally the same thing. The government lacks money for electoral promises, so the whole purpose of this bill is to rob what's left of the OFE by another 15%. It's called some kind of tax. So another 20 billion zlotys from where? Not from what the public spends in stores. With their pension savings, private pension savings will be plundered because the government can't save money. Robbing Poles from their pension savings is not the only common feature of the Civic Platform government - PSL and the Government of Law and Justice. Also, the approach, the attitude of politicians who do this to citizens, I think, deserves to be cited. According to you, Marshals, formerly a spokesman for the government of Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, who said in the context of 20 billion PLN which disappeared, did not agree in the balance sheet between what was robbed of OFE and the amount for which the bonds were surrendered and how much the public debt decreased... Your marshal said, "I'm sure there's no money missing, and that money is safe. We have, in turn, for these governments in the context of this looting, the Minister's statement, also from another liberal and gentle Mr Jack Sasin. When asked why these 15% to be taken from these savings of Poles, he said very sincerely: because that is the decision we made. Very universal answer, practically every question. When OFE was introduced, this was supposed to be a response to the instability of the ZUS. Because it was supposed to be private savings, in private accounts, kept by private institutions. And they were supposed to protect the sacred property rights. It turns out that in Poland there is no property right and in any model our money is not protected by the state, moreover, the state is acting as the robber. And now the question is: What guarantees do Poles have about any means... None. ...which they will collect anywhere and ever for their own retirement? How do we encourage Poles to save and not live thoughtlessly? Since OFE was robbed by one government, by another government, since the Demographic Reserve Fund was plundered by one government, by another government, where could the Poles' money be safe? There was an argument that these 15% tax, looting occurs because ZUS pensions are taxed. Then, ladies and gentlemen, remove the pension tax. It's completely illogical. If my income is taxed, I'll pay the tax, and from what I have left, I'll retire to my personal savings account because they're supposed to be in the ZUS, then what right am I being robbed a second time when I pay this money? It's like I put it in a bank, and if I paid it, I'd charge 15%. . What's the point of depositing into this account? Well, that makes sense because it's under duress. There's no point, but there's coercion. Therefore, pension taxation must be abolished. The same thing we're told is that the money in the ZUS is safe, it's also connected to pensioners, there are individual savings accounts on which there are some pennies, but this money is equally deprived of any guarantee and security. I have a question: What happens next if you run out of money? What are you gonna do? Now we run out of money, so we move from OFE to IKE and charge 15%. What's next? We'll transfer from IKE to PIKE, we'll take 20%, then we'll take PIKE to MIKE, we'll take 30%. Such a country has a model for guaranteeing (the bell) and pension stability of Poles? In this way, the state will not provide security, in principle any sense of pension security for Poles. And you do not build citizens' trust in you - and to the Polish state, and to your politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u170	Thank you very much. List of Members to vote... I'm filing a motion for rejection at first reading. A request has been made. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. 23 people signed up for the questions. Is there anyone else who would like to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. At the same time, I set the time to ask a question for 1 minute. I ask you to speak in order to ask Mr Szczerba a question. If there is no Member, I ask you to ask Mrs Bożena Żalewska, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you two questions that are very much interested in Poles. Why can't insurance take advantage of the option of inheriting funds transferred to the Social Security Office? There's a subaccount in the ZUS with an option to inherit, and that's why it was created. And second question: How much will the salaries of the Demographic Reserve Fund be when the money is transferred from OFE, and how much is today? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u172	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u173	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is nothing more than a heist for Poles and Poles. In previous governments, there has been a change in the functioning of open pension funds, but not a single zloty has come out of the pension system. All funds have been written on the sub-account in the ZUS with the right to inherit. Not a single buck was taken from the insured. Today, the PiS wants to take away 15% of the people. That is as much as 21 billion, which will go beyond the pension system as a Moravian tax. If the insured person chooses the Social Security Office, then it will not be possible to inherit it. Is it care? Family policy? Yesterday, Prime Minister Morawiecki in this House spoke of a balanced budget. So the question is, how much money do you take from OFE this year? From the funds of future pensioners you want to raise PLN 21 billion. It's a familiar sum, isn't it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's exactly the same as it's gonna cost 13 pensions and valorization. That's what he was talking about yesterday, screaming, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u174	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by saying something unpopular, but real. The only guarantee worthy of pensions for Poles, who are not millionaires, bankers and ministers, is the Polish state. Over the years, bankers, lobbyists, propagandists of great capital have tried to undermine this confidence in the Polish state and have done so to put their hands on public money. Unfortunately, it's effective. The planned giant transfer of money for pensions to the private sector, to financial institutions that do not guarantee anything, is stealing from Poles from their dignified future. I would like to ask the right author of this solution, the Prime Minister: Did the Prime Minister notice that some time ago he changed his job that he should not already represent the interests of the financial sector, but the interests of Poles and Poles? When I look at these solutions, I have the impression that the Prime Minister may have missed it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing. If someone writes you into something without asking you, and then lets you sign out, you'll notice, it smells like a scam a mile away. Let's be smart, let's stay in the ZUS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u176	The question will be asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's face it: this project condemns pensioners, future pensioners to uncertain fate. The effects of the transfer of funds from OFE to IKE are unpredictable. Why? Because according to the mechanisms proposed by the applicants, financial institutions which will manage these funds are not obliged to pay any money to pensioners in the future. You hear me well: any money. Any costs and risks associated with the transfer of funds from OFE to IKE shall be borne by us and the profits shall be credited to financial institutions which, for decades without any State control, will be traded and benefit from these funds. That's what economists are talking about and alerting, but the state, which is the applicant and the government, you'd rather listen to the financial lobby than to experts or citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I would like to ask the applicants whether it is better, rather than continuing to privatise pensions, because that is the law, collected on OFE funds to be transferred to public finances. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u178	Thank you. I ask you to ask Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the law enters into force, Poles will face a serious choice regarding the future of their savings: automatically move to IKE, retain the right to inherit funds, at the same time pay a high transfer fee, or by means of an administrative procedure transfer funds to the Social Security Office, lose the right to inherit and pay the tax when paying the pension. Both solutions are wrong. Both involve enormous costs to be incurred by the citizen. The conversion fee has been set at 15% from the amount saved. This is nothing more than another tax. What is the amount of this fee? As calculated, this is 15%. It is estimated that the conversion fee will provide a budget of around 17 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where will the money go and what will it be spent on? That's the answer I'm asking for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u180	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to remind you that OFE was introduced when they ruled the AWS and the Freedom Union. At the time, the Polish People's Party was opposed to these solutions, because we knew what rattlesnake was prepared in the case of human money. I want to remind you, Minister, that what you're saying is a replay of history when a vacation under palm trees was promised. Bogdan says Bank, all those slogans when people were given big, high pensions. We were against it then. Today it turns out that we were right. At the moment, you're saying the same thing, but the repetition of this story is that then, for the management of pension funds, pension fund institutions took 11%. And you're moving on because you're taking 15%. . You take from what people pay, 15% . [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thief! That money's gonna go to check-ins, pensions. My question, Minister. The next session of the Sejm will be the first reading of the citizens' bill on the elimination of taxation on pensions. And then what? Will you give people back the money you're collecting right now? Most in this room are in favour of this solution. This is a civic project. He was already in that term. Everyone supported it, but you didn't allow it to continue. I have a question: What then? How will you deal with pensioners and pensioners then? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u182	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u183	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I will refer a little to my colleague Mieczysław Kasprzak's speech. You have to be honest: the whole system of open pension funds is a big lie, it's a huge scam, which has attracted many Poles, as I remember well, about 2.5 million Poles. Unfortunately, I am one of them. These offers of palm trees and decent retirement have spoken to me. I was involved in this so-called. inverted perpetuum mobile, because that's the way to put it: 10% out of every thousand, 100 PLN for pension societies. But in those days when open pension funds were created, we had a choice. Maybe we were fake, maybe those ads were fake, but we had a choice. We had to declare our willingness to join open pension funds. Now it's the other way around. That's my question: Why did you do it? The IKE is mandatory because there is a statutory record. The Pole's will may be to change - to the ZUS, but legally, by default, is assigned to IKE. It's the opposite of when this system, the thieving system, as we agreed, was created. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u184	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Catherine Ueberhan, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The transformation of OFE into IKE is a continuation of the money jump. It is a solution which will be re-assigned to private institutions, financial institutions, and not future pensioners. Unlike the US, private financial institutions managing these measures are not subject to any State control, any democratic control, including intentional control. We will have no impact on the transactions or controls carried out by these institutions. Once again, this is it. transfer of public funds, funds collected by future pensioners outside the system, to private institutions and related persons - it is not known how: economically, politically, maybe even personally. Then how does the government intend to ensure the transparency of such a system? What about the financial risk (The Bell) for such financial transactions? How will future pension benefits be secured? Will the cost of these operations again be passed on to insured persons who have no impact on, or transactions carried out there? I also wanted to point out that the ruling party won the 2015 election, preaching the slogans about the liquidation of OFE. And now we have a repeat of history. It's a conversion of one capital system to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u186	The question will be asked by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Heir, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking about intentions, about goals. Isn't this about a hidden nationalization? Transfer of OFE's assets to the Demographic Reserve Fund and transfer them to the Management Board of the Polish Development Fund means that private companies will become part of the property of a state entity. In extreme cases, PFR or PFR itself supported by other private entities can become the main shareholder and take control of the company. Is that what we want? Stealing nationalization and another terrible management of companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u188	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill discussed today and the idea of eliminating open pension funds and transforming them into special open investment funds raises legitimate concerns and concerns about insured persons. Therefore, I have some specific questions. Is it true that if the insured person chooses the Social Security Office, then his funds cannot be inherited? My question: Is this supposed to be such a noisy pro-family policy according to the PiS? You know very well that this idea is extremely unconstitutional. It is in line with the principle of equality. It also terrifies that the government is fully aware that the right to inherit funds from the OFE is acquired law and that the government is not able to prohibit this right. Besides, it's not the first time you've raised your hand to acquired rights. I'll remind you of the debubecism bill here. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are you doing this? Why are you stealing from Poles? Why are you stealing from the insured? What do you say, ministers? How can you proceed in such a strange and intricate way over such an extremely unconstitutional act? This project should be absolutely rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u190	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So how can Poles trust such a team that today reaches for money from the pension system? Are they to believe once again the fiery assurances of the Prime Minister, the ministers of his government, who have so many times already been wrong on various issues and, above all, on financial issues? It is not the care of pensioners that causes these actions, but the problems of the budget, the problems of the state budget that you have prepared. In fact, the debt is increased and the higher liabilities are transferred to the next generation. Ladies and gentlemen! With these words Beata Szydło, then Mrs Szydło, thundered on 3 December 2013 here, from this speaker. You were talking about the money heist of Poles from OFE, even though this money was transferred to their private subaccounts. Do you realize what liars, cheaters, and manipulators you are when you give Poles today an illusion of choice? Or you're gonna take them down 15%. net of their contributions, or they must move to the ZUS, where they will lose the right of inheritance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u192	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Obaz, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that absent as usual, President Jarosław Kaczyński in 2013 said this: Because the Prime Minister announced yesterday that there is no crisis, these decisions are strange. They're really weird. On 4 July 2016, Prime Minister Morawiecki at the press conference said: There is no and was not in the plans for nationalisation of OFE. We have a very good plan on how to build Polish capital. The plan is that we want to transfer money from OFE to Poles. Is that what this transmission is supposed to look like, we're taking 15% ? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u194	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have to be honest with Poles, so you should say clearly: This is a law about stealing 15 million Poles. [[Applause]] That's her name. 'Cause it's 15%. Transformation fee... Ladies and gentlemen! Don't be fooled by the next one. Sorry for the expression, bits of law and justice. Because it's a racket, it's a 15% racket. Who's got a job to do, huh? Actually, it's a budget patch. You need 17 billion zlotys. And do you remember the minister screaming about PiS a few years ago when there was a change in the rewrite of OFE to individual ZUS retirement accounts? When you lied back then, you lied to the Poles about the government coalition taking money. No, she didn't. They were prescribed. And most importantly, the subaccount in the ZUS was inherited. And that was also what the Minister said, i.e. the rate of substitution of this sub-account in relation to the ZUS was higher than in the OFE. So it would be worth it (the bell) to apologize for all this and to make it clear to the Poles: Ladies and gentlemen, we have no money, we steal from you, we take 15% from you. . [[Applause]] Don't fall for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u196	The question will now be asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, from the mouth of the representative of the government, the Poles heard the assurance: you can be calm, nothing will happen, your means are safe. Don't let them fool you, Poles. In June, when you wake up in the morning, 15% Your savings will be plundered. I am not surprised that there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki in this room today, because the thief is also trying to be unnoticed. [[Applause]] The thief's trying to work in secret. And that's how bankster Mateusz Morawiecki works. Yes, sir. He's rewriting his wife... The real creator of this bill. That's what we need to talk about. He's talking about himself. I'm asking you why the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy isn't in this room. Because this pension bill has nothing to do with it. That's why he's not here. This bill is about robbing, stealing from Poles. You want to deprive Poles of their savings that they have accumulated throughout their life. You're acting like thieves. Yes, sir. Bravo, sir! Stealing. You know what you're talking about. Don't measure the others with your measure. Truth in the eyes of the circle. Thieves. Thieves. You can do it. 15% - You're stealing from Poles. That's the truth. More debate... That kind of formulation. They know what they're talking about. Inconclusively. But the truth hurt, didn't it? You're robbing Poles. You're robbing Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u198	There's already been a request to move the discussions out of the Seym. The question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczycki, the Civic Coalition. Wilczyński, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u199	Yes, of course it is true that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki does not have to fear for the size of his pension, it is obvious. So now to the problem: Well, the pension replacement rate looks like a ski jump profile - a sharp descent down from a level of 54% and get out of the retirement threshold at 25%. One-quarter of what they're getting today... What the retirees get is a quarter of the last salary. That's how it's gonna look. And now the question is, how much does your change change change this curve? How many percents is this going to be or are they above this curve over the next few years? Promil, two promile? In order to have a decent pension, you have to have a million zloty capital contributions in the ZUS today, these records. We know the OFE is 10,000. zł. So answer the question. (bell rings) How much. Goldilocks, 2 zlotys more, maybe 3 zlotys more? That's a very specific question. And one more question. Namely, ZUS commitments exceeded 3 trillion PLN. It is the hidden debt of Poland - five Polish budgets. And this year the sum of the valorization is equal to the amount of the contributions. Please tell me how much this tail is above 3 trillion, because no one knows it, and whether it actually happened this year, that we are just equalizing our contributions with the amount of valorization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u200	The question will now be asked by Dariusz Kurzawa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u201	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, we're witnessing another jump on citizens' money and all of us sitting here, too. I have this basic question: why has the law on the transfer of funds prepared the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, and not the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u202	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u203	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a fundamental question: Why IKE and not IKE? The difference is, with IKZE, we'd have a tax on the exit. You'd avoid the suspicion that you're doing nothing but making a bank heist. Not much of it, it would be in the interests of pensioners, also in the interests of local governments, because without their harm it could happen. But also - it is in all these considerations that you ignore, it did not sound in this debate either - in this solution that you are introducing, it also loses the National Health Fund. It's at the expense of the health fund, because there won't be a fee to pay for the health contribution. Using another formula to transfer to the IKZE, we would avoid these failures. The question is how many local governments lose (the bell) on this solution, which you propose, how much you steal from them and how much you rob the National Health Fund, how much less will be for protecting the health of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u204	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The explanatory memorandum states: The proposed solution gives insured persons a real right to choose a pension based on two pillars and guarantees the private nature of the savings on the IKE, which will be inherited. One sentence, two lies. Firstly, the IKE does not give any guarantee of a lifetime pension. The Minister may not know what retirement is. I'll tell you. Pension is the monthly cash benefit of the insured person who has ceased his or her professional activity. Monthly, Minister. How can you lie about IKE being a second-pillar pension? And if that is what you say, then I ask you to explain to the High House, and above all to the insured, what is the legal solution, so that IKE funds replace the insured with a life-long pension. And second question. The second lie is that it's going to be our private savings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, show me some private property that you're telling a citizen that he can't own for 10, 20 or 30 years. If this is my private means, then the question is why I can't pay myself out in December 2020. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u206	Thank you very much. Please ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic question is addressed to government representatives. Why are these 15% The funds you're going to collect, you're not calling it a tax, you're calling it a liquidation fee? Because since it's a liquidation fee, what guarantee do you give that you will not introduce IKE tax in the future on payment, saying that these measures have not been taxed so far. The second point is the amount of funds taken. Do you, by abstracting from your justification why it's 15%? Don't you think that this amount is too high in relation to the dramatically low pension capital that all Poles have? This imbalance is huge. And the third case. Do you not recall this and do you not see similarities in this situation, especially with regard to the liquidation charge, with the so-called. The polysolocat thing? In connection with it also Poles (The Bell) today in courts win because no liquidation fee should be imposed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u208	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u209	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, please. If there's an emotion in this room about stealing, calling some thieves, it's easy to put it this way. It's a superlichwa. This is a superlichwa, which, as you say, you want to fight. But who's taking it? Who invented it? The government invented it and robbed it. And now there will be nothing to do with competition, showing the competitiveness of pension societies, because there will not even be an important rate of return, after all there may be failed transactions, after all our means or means of young people who collect for retirement will be taken over. My previous speaker was right. With this transitional charge, now you'll be able to charge any fee every once in a while. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're not cheaper, because the management fee, if you assume that the submission period is 20 years, that's the 15% point. . The State accepted that 15% is a transitional fee, and this is like 20% for managing funds in pension societies, that is, ours. This is really stealing. Things should be called by name. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u210	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u211	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In 2013, the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL actually reformed OFE, but during this reform one public-law bond commitment of the State Treasury was replaced by a second public-law obligation in the form of a ZUS account. There's not a single dollar missing. As much as the Poles had in the bonds, they had exactly what they had in the ZUS accounts. And I want to tell you - even though there were absurd accusations here, about stealing, robbing, etc., and those who say that... Right. ...they completely do not understand anything - that in the case of Greece e.g. the bonds have lost value, not registered in the pension fund of the Greek State. So here's my question. Gentlemen, you're bringing this in now and referring to history. How do you want to prove the constitutionality of these solutions? First, the tax cannot be levied [[♪ The bell ♪]] before the performance of the benefit, and this may occur (Applause) in ten years or so, and secondly, the principle of proportionality in the constitution has been violated, because how can you take 15% In a situation like this? [[Applause]] This is stealing. Stealing from Poles in broad daylight. Ha, ha, ha! There's nothing to laugh about. You'll all be sitting down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u212	The question will now be asked by Mr Mikhal Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mouths full of clichés about pro-family politics, and what are you doing with this project? In fact, you're denying your family the opportunity to inherit from your spouse, from your parent. This is an unacceptable situation. The money transferred from OFE to individual ZUS accounts will not be inherited. When the insured person dies, the first pillar will power up what? The budget of the Social And that's the change, and that's the difference between our reforms. The funds on the sub-account of the Social Security Office shall be paid to the persons or heirs indicated. Today you are looting Polish families, denying the possibility of inheriting the funds collected over the years. This is a shame, because it is completely contrary to what you say: actions and words. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u214	The question will now be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u215	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this is not a law on any transfer of funds. This bill should be called the 15% looting bill. what was collected by Poles for future pensions. And of course, if we look at the right side of the room, there's no one politically responsible. There is no one, because President Kaczyński is already retiring, therefore he is not interested in where the young Poles will take the pension. Those who are just working, those who are professionally active. And I have to say that this pillaging of funds is about most of the people who are active, entrepreneurial, who are taking matters into their own hands, because they're the ones who've collected the most in the OFE accounts. Therefore, this is another hit in the middle class, in those who take matters into their own hands, not waiting for the state, for apologies, boobs as you try (the bell), I would say, such a country to create. I have a question: How much more capital would these people have had if it weren't for this looting, PiS-owska looting 15% Savings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u216	The list of Members enrolled in the task of the question has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Buda, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! So many papers? I wrote it down. e.g. I would therefore like to make a precise reference to these questions. You were the first. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about facts first, and then we'll start answering questions. What would happen if this system were not to be affected by any law at all, by any reform compared to what we propose in this law. That is, today your mechanism, which you proposed in 2013, every year: in 2020, 2021 over 20 billion PLN would be transferred to the FUS. If we say and compare it with a fee, then in total in these 2 years this fee will be less than redirecting the slider to the Social Insurance Fund. So if we did not undertake this reform at all, the impact on the Social Insurance Fund and indirectly on the budget would be much better. But we want to do it. We want to do this because we're afraid of what our successors might do. I mean, they could come up with a very similar idea like you in 2013 to take these measures. You have no shame! You'd take more. You're robbing Poles! I know there were plans. You wouldn't take half of it, but more because the rest of it was invested in shares. You were scared. [[Game in the O.R.]] You don't know anything. Minister, just a moment, please. Wait a minute. You're welcome. But don't talk to the minister about something he doesn't know. Tell me what you're doing. But do you understand the rules? Now it's the Minister's speech and let him have it. There you go. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Ladies and gentlemen! There were plans, I know. You'd take more than half, but half the money was invested in shares. You were afraid of perturbing the stock market, so you only took what was in the safe assets of the Treasury, connected with the Treasury, among others. bonds. That's exactly what this was about, man. If we compare the situation of taxation, ladies and gentlemen, you have created this kind of mechanism in which all the measures before retirement age, from 10 years to retirement age, were transferred by slider to the Social Security Office and there at the exit you taxed it at 18% and 32% And we're offering a 15% fee today. , i.e. even with the reduction of PIT to 17% This is a fee lower than what would happen with the mechanism you put in place. So it's an obvious saving and obviously less charge than the one you're proposing. That's first of all. Secondly, Minister, I expected more from the point of view of these questions and this speech. You even pointed out the wrong ministry that I represent. Because you're changing so much, we can't keep up. I'm starting with that remark. This is not the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Development has never been. The Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, first of all. But it was a different name a month ago. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to the measures you took was perfectly shown to us by Mrs Kidawa-Błońska, then the spokesperson of the government who indicated that the missing 19 billion PLN went into good hands. But where? She doesn't know that. That was the handover. No public debt decreased by 19 billion less than the entire transfer from OFE to the Social Insurance Fund. Where's the 19 billion? Let me explain this to you. Mr President, come here and explain this to the Poles. This is the looting. And at the end of the day, you were also taxing these funds to get out of the social security system. That's not true. That's not true. Mrs. Jolanta Fedak's question is why it's so late, why there's no debate on it. The Minister, with all due respect, but the bill was passed to Parliament on 20 December, she had her sejm printing already on 30 December. So the fact that you picked up those documents is that you went to the website yesterday, we're really not responsible. It was easy to read the bill, it was a few weeks ago. The law was first adopted by the government in its previous term of office. It was later confirmed by the current government and just passed on. Six months is known in this basic shape of this bill, so there really was plenty of time to get acquainted with it. Mr Kulesza's next question is why we will not eliminate - if there must be a levy, because that would be consistent with the pension taxation system - why we will not therefore remove pension taxation. Because it would be very unfair for those who today have the smallest pensions. I understand that you're on the side of friends, colleagues who have pensions of 5 and 6 thousand. Kaczynski has one. And I'm not even 15. And then a photo of the pension tax... Your president does. He's also taking a parliamentary salary. ...would cause your colleagues to have a tax reduction of 1500 PLN, and those who earn the least and receive the smallest pension, or 1,400 PLN - by 100 PLN. That's why we won't do it. That's why it's going to be mostly monetary, and that's why it's going to be thirteen, maybe fourteen... Who's ever brought her in? ...and the pictures, when it comes to the amount of tax, will not be, because the richest would benefit most. That is why, sir. Why is it not possible to inherit the funds collected in the basic account? These measures could never be inherited. It could have been rewritten. If someone wants to guarantee their right to inherit today, he has a clear, simple choice. He doesn't even have to do anything. The funds go to the IKE and become private funds. I -15% . This is stealing. They're becoming private resources. What does that guarantee? We put a very specific record in the bill, which you are very afraid of. There was no such rule in your bill. I'll quote it because it's very important. You were afraid to sign it. We in the 2013 work phase encouraged that a similar provision should also be included in your law. You didn't dare. Today, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 2 of the funds collected in the account of an open pension fund member constitute private ownership of the saver in that individual pension account and cannot be transferred to the State budget. These measures are finally becoming private. And -15%. He's a pain in the ass. If the Member comes to the conclusion in 20 years that these measures should be taken from Poles, he will not be able to do so because of this provision. We still have a constitutional provision guaranteeing property rights. Therefore, you will not be able to do so because of this provision. This article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. You'll be dreaming 1 point 2 at night when you have an idea to take these funds out of your individual pension accounts. Every bill can be changed in eight hours. The IPN Act, an example. No. Here's the warranty. It's already constitutional. She's gonna be guarding the Ladder. More questions from such specific ones, because there weren't many of them... Polysolocata... Minister! Do not comment on whether the questions were specific or not. Especially when you don't actually understand any of the questions. They were asked by the Members, and please respectfully... State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Mr Klimczak pointed out that this is a liquidation fee. It's a transformation fee. We treat it not as a liquidation fee, but as a transformation fee and a comparison, a reference somehow in one sentence to a polysolocata... Zoom in on that, explain to me what the polysolocata compounds of OFE IKE are like. These are really different systems, and I don't see any connection here. It's absolutely hard for me to tell. How will the replacement rate increase? Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the replacement rate, these funds will be invested on the basis of the Fund Act much more aggressively, much more effectively than so far under the OFE. Today the rate of return on the IKE is higher than in the OFE case, so we can afford to say that the rate of return will be much higher than the one that is still in force today, the more that there has been no investment in the last 10 years because these funds have been transferred to the ZUS. So the fact that they were saved in the account, the degree of valorization and what these funds were earning... They're actually just gonna be making money right now, right up to the end, that is. to reach the retirement age. Energy companies, I'm sure. While we are creating a sub-fund that will be much safer for people who are five years short and less old, it will continue to invest funds and not transfer them to the Social Insurance Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I thank you for the debate and ask you to support this project in further work. Thank you very much. But the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u218	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. Corrigendum. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 14 hours 15 min 09]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 150. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on amending the resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of Poland's Wedding Year with the Puck Sea, print No 153. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on opposition to the manipulation of facts and the deception of history by Russian Federation politicians in order to discredit Poland and worsen Russian-Polish relations, print No 154. Objection! Mr President, what do you object to? There was a very clear objection, Marshal. What is the objection, sir? Objection to objection.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u219	God bless you! I bow, Marshal. Our experience with the adoption of resolutions, namely the case of the Nobel Prize for Mrs Olga Tokarczuk, clearly proves that the High Chamber, with all due respect, is voting on matters of which it has no idea what I tested at the committee meeting, asking: Who read the Books of Jacob from board to board? We have a clue. I therefore propose that the adoption of this resolution be more serious in nature, the adoption of this project, which the Confederation from the first to the last letter, including the final dot, supports, but precedes them with an accelerated course of history. I offer immeasurably documentary films: the Defilade of the Winners, the March of the Deliverers, the Transformation. From Lenin to Putin, 4 parts... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr President, I am so sorry. Mr President, I think you have the wrong resolution. ...to date, it has not been given by Polish televisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u220	You have the wrong resolution, sir. Did you object to the resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of Poland's Wedding with the Puck Sea? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes. Okay, in that case, because the Member has objected to this resolution... Yeah, everybody heard. ...please, let's proceed to the vote. Stand down your objection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 430 was for, 1 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on opposition to the manipulation of facts and the deception of history by Russian Federation politicians in order to discredit Poland and worsen Russian-Polish relations, print No 154. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! Objection! Objection, sir. You just expressed this objection, you're the only one who misjudged the resolution. Can I have a minute of access to the microphone, please? We will therefore vote on this objection. There's already been an objection. In view of the opposition raised as regards the application of Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, we shall decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 437 was for, 2 against, 1 abstained. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on opposition to the manipulation of facts and the deception of history by the Russian Federation politicians in order to discredit Poland and worsen Russian-Polish relations (print No 154). I ask Members to stand. [[Some of the Members are up.]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on opposition to the manipulation of facts and the deception of history by Russian Federation politicians in order to discredit Poland and worsen Russian-Polish relations. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland condemns provocative and untruthful statements by representatives of the highest authorities of the Russian Federation trying to hold Poland responsible for the outbreak of World War II. The size of the nation and relations between states cannot be built on lying and forging history, therefore the Sejm of the Republic of Poland is obliged to remind that two then totalitarian powers - Nazi Germany and Stalinist Soviet Union - led to the outbreak of World War II. After the conclusion of the shameful Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact in Moscow on 23 August 1939, the first victims of both totalitarianisms were Poland and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The war caused the deaths of tens of millions of people, the rise of Nazi concentration camps and the Holocaust in Europe - one of the greatest crimes in human history. It is not disputed that the nations of the Soviet Union have suffered casualties in the fight against the Third Reich, unfortunately this has not brought independence and sovereignty to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and to their citizens - respect for human rights. Soviet totalitarianism also turned against its own citizens, among whom were Russians. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland does not agree to return to imperial forgeries, which reverse the historical dialogue of the Russian authorities with other nations. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the victims of Nazi and Soviet totalitarianism and expresses the desire that the history of their martyrdom should never be falsified and treated instrumentally. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls for a common reflection on the principles of building international relations, which should be the basis of mutual respect, partnership and good neighbourhood. Please accept the resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution to object to the manipulation of facts and the deception of history by Russian Federation politicians in order to discredit Poland and worsen Russian-Polish relations. We return to the discussion of item 5 on the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2020. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question was asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn. One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u221	Your marshal, but this conversation isn't in my time, is it? Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The 2020 budget is not one but three deficits. The first is a hidden deficit, because the government of PiS pushed expenditure of PLN 30 billion out of the budget, while at the same time 24 billion one-off income was considered a fixed income. And you're not gonna rob OFE members twice. The second deficit is the deficit of Poland. They pushed Poland out of the budget, too. There is no Polish sick, Polish disabled, there is no Polish ecological, investment and local government. And finally, the third deficit, the truth deficit. At the axiological level, this budget is also unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u222	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the draft budget law for 2020 at first reading, contained in prints 112 and 112-A, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216 were in favour, against 227, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2020, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 17 January 2020 and the Public Finance Committee shall adopt the report by 31 January 2020. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question was asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The best proof of what Mrs Leszczyn has just said is the Solidarity Fund budget. How is it that the fund you set up last year at the end of this year will already have nearly 30 billion debts and zero visions to repay them, zero sources of repayment of the loans you're pushing? This Solidarity Fund has just over 3 billion revenues and over 20 billion costs this year. This is your budget without deficit. You've practically pushed 30 billion of the clean deficit on your hands, the structural deficit, into the targeted funds. Ba, the public television surcharge for your propaganda is exactly the same manipulation in your performance. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u224	Thank you, Member. The question was asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The postulate of a balanced budget is for us, for the free people, for those responsible not only for the current term, but also for the entire nation, including future generations, very close. The question is how this demand is understood by the government, because this demand should be based on the fact that we are reducing costs, public expenditure according to our financial means. Meanwhile, the government is doing something completely opposite: it is increasing its influence, which means it is drawing more and more money out of the citizen's pocket. What about expenses? In addition to social transfers, which are praised by the rule of law and justice, we unfortunately have more and more bureaucracy, more institutions, offices and unnecessary officials. Moreover, existing offices and institutions have increasing budgets each year. This budget, like any other budget, is a copy of the previous one with added an appropriate percentage for each institution (the bell) so that more public money is spent. This is a waste. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u226	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 113 and 113-A would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 218 was for, against - 227, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities. The additional committee report shall be in print No 120-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Four amendments were tabled to the report of the committee in print No 120 relating to the parliamentary draft law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities during the second reading. The first three amendments relate to Article. 1 and relate to a six-month or one-year delay in the performance of certain obligations under the Act. The three amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry recommend that the High House be rejected. On the other hand, the fourth amendment, made to the article. 2, arranges the entries in Article. 2 concerning reporting obligations for non-deflowable tanks and transporting liquid pollutants that are not subject to the waste database. This amendment is recommended by the Committee on the Environment by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u228	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 120. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Waste Act. In the first amendment to Article. 76 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. One minute, Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While remaining on the subject, I wanted to ask why the Ministry plans to change the definition of waste, which concerns the recovery cover, by narrowing it to compost arising only from the treatment of green waste. This will cause very high costs, ladies and gentlemen, which will be borne by the municipalities. Already today I receive many monits and writings that changing the definition of waste will cause very high costs for municipalities. Please explain why it is necessary to change the definition of waste. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u230	Thank you, Member. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We know it's very bad about waste and BDO. We know that yesterday Minister Sławomir Mazurek, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate, who was responsible for waste, was dismissed. involved in the preparation of this amendment and was responsible for the cleanliness and cleanliness of the municipalities. Over the past months, he has been implementing a government waste database project to which companies have to report the amount of waste generated. The voice of local government officials, the critical voice of local governments and entrepreneurs who are obliged to comply with the BDO, is very loud. This proposal, which we are making, is a proposal that allows for 6 months in addition to electronic reports to be submitted in parallel also a paper version, a traditional one. We are talking about the fact that hundreds of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs are obliged to report for 2019. Please support this request. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u232	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 215 was for, 227 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 236a applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Pasławska, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u233	Dear Marshal! Minister! The waste base is between 300 and 500 000. entrepreneurs. The information we have received from the Minister of Climate Affairs shows that about 178 thousand. Entrepreneurs registered. In some sense, this law goes against the expectations of entrepreneurs, and in part it repeats our proposal, because not so long ago, two weeks ago PSL-Kukiz15 proposed the extension of this deadline by a year. You didn't agree, and two weeks later, when you saw that the system wasn't working, you offered some concessions. It's working. Don't lie to me. Therefore, we propose not to go back to this law in six months, but to extend this deadline by another six months today, so that entrepreneurs can properly prepare for this obligation (the bell), which no one, of course, denies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u234	Thank you, Member. The rapporteur, Ms Anna Paluch, will answer the question of law and justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, she is missing the truth. The system's working, 150,000. waste transfer cards are generated. And let me remind you that the deadline for the introduction of the waste database has been postponed for seven years. You're moving your own. In muddy water, dishonest companies feel best. It is high time that waste management is transparent and we do not get this transparency, Madam, ladies and gentlemen, if there is no clear information about flows. All the data that should be collected in the waste database is coming down, so please don't mislead me. How much is this gonna cost? And this solution, this bill that you have tabled, Madam, single-handed, would cause enormous chaos and mess, because it would create a legal vacuum. This is not how it works, ladies and gentlemen, that the single-purpose project that replaces 1 January 2020 for 1 January 2021 will replace the 40-page project that we have prepared as a parliamentary project. There will be no mess, the waste base will finally work... Bravo! ...and omissions from the period of the PO-PSL government, which postponed the 2012 deadline for 2015 and 2015 for 2018, will finally end. Four years! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u236	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 172 for, 229 against, 42 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 236a applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 170 for, 228 against, 44 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th Amendment to the Cleanliness and Order Law, the applicant proposes amendments to the Article. Nine o'clock. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Ms Urszula Pasławska, PSL-Kukiz15, has submitted a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If the system works, as the rapporteur says, then why are you amending this law, why are you prolonging the deadline? That's my question. On the other hand, I would like to say that you have prepared a constitution for business. The last regulation concerns a project called friendly law, I think that's what it's called. Therefore, this is a new obligation which is imposed on entrepreneurs, and the amendments we are talking about also give entrepreneurs the chance to avoid penalties, because penalties are - attention - from 5 000. PLN up to 1 million for the entrepreneur. [[Applause]] Bravo! Don't let them cheat.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u238	There you go, the rapporteur, Anna Paluch, wants to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u239	I'm gonna say one thing: because we listen to entrepreneurs because we understand them... When? ...because we understand that honest entrepreneurs want a base, and those who, for various reasons... The base is huge, it covers large companies such as Orlen or Lotos, and it also includes small companies that simply have a very small supply of waste. And it's hard to expect technical difficulties in introducing such a complex undertaking, which the PO-PSL government was simply not able to, in colloquially speaking, bite. 4 years, Member. That's why we made this draft resolution... Fifth year! Fifth year! ...so that entrepreneurs can quietly implement new solutions for a period of 6 months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u240	I suggest we wait, ladies, until eight years. Then it'll be more fun. Five years isn't enough. No. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 314 - for, 9 - against, 121 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before that, the question was asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government admits that it eventually capitulated on waste management. [[Applause]] Poles are poisons of toxic waste imported from abroad, they are poisons of smoke and draining poisons from landfills and at the same time have to pay for PiS-owski mess, which has been increasingly generated for 4 years. We don't pay more and more for our trash. We pay for your mess, from which you wash your hands. Maybe you're proposing anesthetic slices for this gangrene. This mess with the Union you've made. This is the bill. At last, order must be made. It was a base that was supposed to sort things out, and it creates perfect conditions for dark business, because it's so opaque that anything is possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u242	Thank you, Member. The question will also be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Nobody denies the need to enter a waste database. It's supposed to sort out the waste management. However, the announcement of the implementation of this electronic system on 1 January resulted in a paper-based submission of applications in all marshal offices a few weeks before that date. We do not know whether these are applications of a registration or updating nature, but we have information that some local authorities have submitted 1,200 to 1,800 applications per day. Therefore my question: Are we convinced that this system, which, according to the Minister's statement yesterday, registered 178 thousand, will be able to say so, there has been an incorporation of all that had been received by local governments before the date of entry (the bell) of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u244	The answer will be given to the Minister of Profit. Yes? He wants an answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dismiss these innuendoes and discourses which are from the Seym Chair addressed first to Minister Sławomir Mazurka, Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Climate. Publicly, before the High House, on behalf of the Minister for Climate Affairs, I would like to thank Minister Sławomir Mazurk very warmly. [[Applause]] for carrying out a very substantive, deep, analytical work related to the commissioning of the waste database. The system works, is functional, is intuitive, works perfectly. All these voices, what you are raising here, both Mrs Lenartowicz and Mrs Pasławska, are simply not true. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do we agree as a ministry on a draft of the parliamentary proposal to postpone the parallel running of the waste database in paper form? What I'm saying is that the electronic version hasn't been stopped. This electronic system is functioning, with the possibility to keep this database in paper form in parallel to 30 June. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the deadline for registration in the waste database was 24 July 2018. All entrepreneurs who have not registered so far have to say, they have done so on their own responsibility. We would like to meet those who have not done so in time. Criminal rules are in force, but the Environmental Protection Inspection uses instructions first to enable this system to function properly. We are going to liquidate the entire system, which is currently working perfectly in electronic form. Please log in, see that there were over 175,000 in the last week. generated waste transfer cards, more than 180 thousand. registered entities, so that all those things you say are not true. In addition, at the moment there is no blocking of registration in the waste database at the level of marshal offices, because directly interested person, the entrepreneur, can register in electronic form in the database. Ladies and gentlemen! What the rapporteur, Anna Paluch, said: The Civic Platform has postponed the entry into force of the waste database in 2012 to 2015. In 2015, the tender had to be cancelled, which was poorly prepared because there were no implementing documents, there were no regulations. That's not true. It was the rule of law and justice that effectively implemented a well-functioning system. At the moment, due to the sealing of the system and the good of waste trading in Poland, we do not want to extend another year or even longer, because always the waste industry lobby will strive to ensure that the entry date of the waste database is removed as far as possible. On the other hand, when it comes to the import of waste into Poland, you also give incorrect information here. Ladies and gentlemen, last year a ban on imports into Poland of mixed municipal waste was introduced. These wastes, which are imported to Poland, are much less at the moment and are only raw materials that are used for processing. I ask the High House to adopt the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u246	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 120, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 437 was for, 1 against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Waste Act and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The additional committee report shall be in print No 136-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof July to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has re-examined the parliamentary draft amendment to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, this time in the context of the second reading of the amendment. The amendment, according to the Office for Sejm Analysis, is an amendment far beyond the subject matter of the parliamentary submission, and therefore the committee did not consider this amendment substantively, although the substantive justification for the lack of purpose of this amendment was presented by the Ministry of Justice and decided to take a negative opinion in the vote. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I request that the High Sejm reject the amendment presented in print No 136-A and that it adopt the draft law in print No 136, which was presented to the High Sejm during its second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u248	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 136. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, delete point 1a in Article. Paragraph 24 1 Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 42 was in favor, against - 270, 131 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 136, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 262 - for, no one was against, with 176 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We would like to refer to item 9 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on subscription fees. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 129. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. Four Members have asked questions. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday at an hour. At 12 noon, the House debated a draft law amending the Act on subscription fees. Well, today I want to say to the High House, because she doesn't know that, I'm sure she does today at an hour. 15.45 we are to adopt a law on amending the Act on Radio and Television - one and the other - on amending the Act on subscription fees. It's a miracle. A miracle absolute! Under the cover of the night, as is usually the practice of Law and Justice. Well, so far we could say that Mr. Kurski gets 2 billion zlotys for lies, villains and some shady performances. Hey, hey! And now we know that he also gets into positions, for the next jobs, because this change was extended to the boards of companies (the bell) infinity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u250	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. You're welcome. Hand out of your pocket!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u251	I won't bore you because it's only a minute. Who among you ever had the opportunity to look backstage on the street. Voronica, by the Insurgents' Square? Some. Oh, Mr Kukiz, yes. So we know, sir, that there is no sum that cannot be passed over there... I agree. ...that couldn't be burned out there. [[Applause]] And so it's not just a one-way street. You know, it's a legend that from the decorations to the Quo vadis, which happened to burn down, there was your entire campaign years ago, because the TV and the cinema really work the head executives of production and they know how to do it. Adding the money of Polish citizens to this manger, where head people, foreign producers, are fed, it is a scandal (The Bell), disgrace, abomination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u252	Thank you, sir. Mr Jack Protasiewicz, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u253	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! A question to the Members of the House, but also to the whole House. Don't you see, ladies and gentlemen, especially Members on the right, from the PiS, absurdity? Mr July had just recommended rejecting the amendment, which goes beyond the matter of the law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. And now you want to accept an amendment that, in one law, amended one law, amended two laws in one committee meeting. It's a completely different project. And the other thing, it's already material. Why maintain a subscription fiction if it pays 1/3 of the household, and lately less and less? By the way, it is a proof of how Poles evaluate the quality of your television. Ask Tusk. Isn't it better to go back to the PSL and Kukiz project and the Union of European Democrats about abolishing the subscription and establishing one reasonable annual grant for public media, as is the case in Europe, rather than adding imaginary, baseless, billion-dollar amounts that can be better used for social and useful (Bell) goals every year? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u254	Thank you, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, yesterday at the meeting of the cultural committee, Mr Sosnierz did not know what amendment he was making. We've asked him repeatedly why he's putting it together. He didn't know. We asked for an explanation. He didn't know. It turns out that all you want is to make sure that there aren't three CEOs or vice presidents on the boards of companies, just 10, 100, or maybe 1,000. Do you realize that you are voting today on a law that has not entered the Sejm at all, which was not normalized at all? There's been no such thing in the last four years. I don't get it at all. Do you even realize what kind of absurdity you want to vote on? Perhaps Mr Sosnierz will have the courage to explain to everyone why you are making such idiotic laws, such idiotic rules. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, be brave. You didn't have the guts yesterday, so come in here today and explain it to everyone. [[Applause]] Go. Go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u256	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 220 was for, against - 223, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the question before voting on the whole. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You don't have a substantive argument, you don't have an emotional argument, and I'm gonna say, "Stay alone with your filth and your debt." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u258	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u259	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a lot of arguments here about this hopeless bill. Is it a public mission to slander people, attack the opposition? Is the public service to which this money is to go compared Greta Thunberg to Hitler and Stalin? Is it a public mission to slander people from the LGBT community? What do you mean, he's defaming himself? Is it a public mission to slander Professor Tomasz Grodzki? Was it a public mission to slander President Paweł Adamowicz, who was murdered by such a sting? Is this the public mission? Disgraceful! And on this public mission is 2 billion dollars, our money? Minister Glinski, you sit so quiet and you don't raise your eyes. Don't you hate the fact that $2 billion is gonna go for the sting, the hat, the propaganda and the slander? Don't you hate it? Have the courage to tell me how you feel about it. [[Applause]] You're talking about TVN. Come here and tell me. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u260	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Sosnierz, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u261	Since we are talking about funding party television on Law and Justice, there is a certain inconsistency, because the subsidy for Law and Justice was supposed to amount to 23 million a year, and this sum, which we are adding here to the party television, PiS, has repeatedly exceeded what the Law and Justice were going to get over the entire term of law and justice. I understand it's such an oversight, and we haven't even mentioned in this bill that this television grant consumes the parties' subsidies of Law and Justice. So the question is: Is the Law and Justice going to give up their party grant to compensate for this injustice, or do we not appreciate your generosity and for opposition parties will also be financed some channels of public television, some channels of public radio? If so, please inform us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u262	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 129, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 230 Members voted. 228 was for, 2 was against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on subscription fees. [[Touchdown, applause]] Bravo! We are returning to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners. The additional committee report shall be in print No 148-A. We proceed to the third reading. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to present an additional report to the committee. Mr Wojciechowski. Please submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Today's committee meeting took place. Three amendments were tabled. The Commission recommended that the draft law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u264	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 148. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In Amendment One... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... (Groans in the hall, bell ringing) Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down because we haven't finished the votes yet. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well done, Member! Thank you. Some Members chant: Left! Left! Left! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take the right side, please, because we haven't finished the votes. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. You're welcome. There's no envoy. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What are you guys so happy about? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You. What are you guys so happy about? 2 billion PLN for Kurski's propaganda, for heyt, for hatred, for humiliating people, for destruction. [[Applause]] We are on the eve of the first anniversary of the murder of Paul Adamowicz... But Iwona voted. What are you guys so excited about? Mr President, we are at point 13 of the pension. Please continue, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! The 13th pension is just an allowance. The 13th pension is compensation for the increases and costs that you pay to Poles and Poles. Does the High House remember this building? This is Silver 16. There's a commercial on this building. But whose commercial is this? PGE, a company which increases by 19,5% the price of electricity for all pensioners and pensioners. 15.5% raises without compensation... Thank you, sir. ...this is a raise. Thirty-40%. Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u266	I would like to ask Mr Maciej Kopc's question from the Left. You're welcome. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, because I'm about to announce a recess and we're going to extend this whole thing. I'm asking you to calm down. We're not done, ladies and gentlemen, yet with the votes, so please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling party! A simple, concrete question: When will your campaign end and in what condition will you leave the economy after this election campaign you have been running for several years? You spend billions of dollars on party television, on the IPN, on the Church Fund, on the national foundation, on the urban food of the government, your propaganda and empty laughter in this room. When are you gonna stop treating pensioners in a category of votes that can be bought with any unfair witness? You cannot provide a minimum pension at a decent level, health care, medicines, social care for the people most in need who built our economy. At the same time, you are confusing people's eyes by saying that PLN 2.80 a day is their value in your eyes. Is that what your welfare state is worth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u268	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. It was 71, 332 against, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 14. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. [[Game in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Before voting, the question will be asked by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So-called 13th retirement is a drop in the sea of needs. I would like to remind the House that 224 PiS Members rejected the draft Pension Law without tax in March 2018. Retirement without tax would be a monthly additional income for 9 million pensioners. Thanks, PiS. High Izbo! I would also like to quote one more data for 2018. Polish people and Poles spend on private medical services, including medicines, how much? PLN 57 billion per year. 57 billion PLN per year means that every Pole and every Polish woman does not find public health protection, access to specialists, or assistance that they require on time. 1500 PLN each pensioner pays for private services. You give the thirteenth pension - this is not even compensation for those (the bell) expenses that bear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u270	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 168 was in favor, 227 against, with 43. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition is, of course, in favour of an additional annual provision of money to pensioners and pensioners. But there isn't and will not be our permission to rob people with disabilities. We're not robbing anybody. The financing of an additional benefit from the solidarity fund for the support of people with disabilities is a scandal. I'm sure the retirees and the pensioners don't want that. [[Applause]] With the previous amendment, we asked you to change this source of funding. You didn't do it. You've turned the state budget into a financial pyramid because you know there's no money in this Solidarity Fund. You're borrowing money from the Demographic Reserve Fund and you won't have anything to pay for it. This is actually a huge deficit that you are cooking for future generations of Poles. And the problem is, you're also breaking the spending rule. We are in favour of this witnessing, but the scandal is that it (the bell) with money for people with disabilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u272	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, in print No 148, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 432 was for, 1 against, with a hold of 9. The Sejm passed a bill on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law in print No 117 and No 117-A. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes a different wording of the article. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2. Ms Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the lowest pension benefits are raised is very good. And I don't think there's anyone in this room who's against it. But it is a pity that when the lowest benefits are increased, you do not have the State's way of supporting those who actually have starvation benefits, so they have even less than the lowest pension benefits. These people last year, according to what the Minister said at the committee meeting, were about 300,000. This is 4 times more than in 2015. So I call on you from this point on to think of those who have really hungry benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u274	Thank you, Member. The question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left has tabled amendments that are presented to you today as minority proposals, because unfortunately, despite the valorisation of these pensions, which we obviously support, the problem of the poverty of the elderly is still not addressed, and there is no problem of an ever-increasing gap between the minimum wage and the level of pensions. In November, at the first meeting of the Left Sejm, she submitted a draft law increasing the minimum pension to the amount of PLN 1600, a law which guarantees this minimum pension to all, which is also the answer to the questions of Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz. We therefore call for our minority proposals to be adopted, 1 and 2, which allow for a real increase in the value of pensions and which allow for a real improvement in the quality of life of seniors, one of those groups whose fate is supposed to be so concerned by the State (the Bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u276	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 208 was in favor, against - 227, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal to Article. 4 the draft law amending the applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 208 - for, 227 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And before the whole question. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The valorisation of pension benefits is a step in the right direction, provided that it is fair, at a decent level and is complemented by systemic solutions. In September Ub. Jarosław Kaczyński foretold: "Our goal is to build a Polish version of the state of prosperity. So let's look at this Polish version of the state of prosperity. From 1 March, pensions are expected to increase by 3.24%. , but not less than 70 PLN, while the lowest pension is to rise from 1100 PLN to 1200 PLN, but - note - gross. Quickly counting, it turns out that at the hands of pensioners they will receive less than 82 PLN more. This includes an increase in energy prices by 11,12% and associated giant price increases. In addition, in December Ub. inflation was as high as 3.4% on a yearly basis. What does that mean? This means that as a result of your irresponsible economic policy, after deduction of the costs associated with rising prices of goods and services and rising energy prices, the balance for pensioners (the bell) will turn out to be... Thank you, Member. ...not even zero and negative. This is what prosperity looks like according to Jarosław Kaczyński in the collision with facts and figures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u278	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in prints 117 and 117-A, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 444 - for, against - 1, 2 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 122. We'll proceed to the vote... But before that, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. Here you go, question. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Before voting on an important, useful law in general, I would like to draw attention to the terrible style of legislative work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. This initially good project, which was intended to serve our citizens, has unfortunately been extended during the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to include amendments which are absolutely outside the scope of the proposal. This is the model in which we change ten others that have no connection with it by means of one law. This bill should be processed in code mode. Unfortunately, it was processed in normal mode. So there's a big charge here. as regards the legislative process itself. This is lowering the standards of lawmaking. I'm just waiting for a brilliant presentation in which we're going to change the family code and caring, and by the way, we're going to change it. Water Law Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u280	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 122, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 273 - for, against - 9, 163 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 91-A. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A few words of a report on an important amendment to the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. This is a new project that was launched in December 2019. The Commission considered it at its meetings on 12 December and today. In view of the importance of the project, I would like to point out some of its most important objectives. Firstly, it is a reduction in the decommissioning of railway lines and the cessation of the degradation of railway infrastructure in areas along railway lines, for which a decision has already been made on decommissioning. The Act introduces new tools for this purpose. Secondly, this is to regulate the implementation of rail connections at the borders of voivodships and to enable the implementation of these connections to be supported by public funds. This is also the way out against signals, opinions, mainly from carriers and local authorities. Thirdly, it is the removal of problems and barriers to the effective implementation of the National Railway Programme, involving funds from the European Union budget - and we know that these measures are record-breaking in this European perspective, more than 67 billion - and, of course, the implementation of the Government's Rail + Rail programme by 2028 in the field of regional railway infrastructure. Fourthly, this is an improvement in the implementation of investments in tram lines. Fifthly, it is a reduction of the burden and stopping the processes of unauthorized communalisation of the State Treasury's land occupied under railway infrastructure. In particular, the Commission adopted legislative amendments. Today, she has examined 13 substantive amendments. They have been discussed by the committee and there is a negative recommendation for their adoption. I would like to point out, as rapporteur for the committee, that most of these amendments were rejected earlier during the work of the Committee on Infrastructure after first reading. Some of them, as I said, are now included in the additional report. Finally, I would just like to conclude that the bill introduces a number of new legal instruments that will really contribute to the development and good use of railway infrastructure, help to combat the exclusion of communication and support the implementation of the programme to complement local and regional railway infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Please accept this amendment. Moreover, all parliamentary clubs expressed their support for this amendment in their opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u282	Thank you, sir. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 91. The Commission also presents amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 7 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Railway Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 9q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose a different wording of points 6 and 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left, with a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left, of course, will support this bill, because it is a good bill, for which we simply thank, because it is a large piece of well done work. We have tabled some amendments, which, in our opinion, are a slight improvement of this law. And so the amendment we are talking about is an adjustment resulting from the provisions on the running of tram lines in cities, because this is a project concerning not only rail, but also easier running tram lines, including those which go independently. And now we are dealing often with such a situation, that e.g. Tractions are removed when upgrading these lines from the buildings. And then we don't have such legal instruments, they only partially exist in the Revitalization Act to put them back on these buildings, because if there is (the bell) the owner's consent, then it's just the end. Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member. This is an amendment that introduces the possibility in the location decision, to introduce the possibility of anchoring such traction into the building. Thank you very much. I would like your support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u284	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 213 - for, 231 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 9s applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 10a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition, with a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I agree that this was a very good idea, and any good idea could not be described in the bill. Thus, in our amendment, we correct the obvious error that puts people who are to receive compensation in a much worse situation in the case of railway investments than e.g. in the case of road investments. It would be good for the Ministry to answer why people who are expropriated by rail regulations will have to wait for compensation, to determine the amount of compensation up to 180 days, while in road investments it is e.g. 30 days. We propose that this period be halved to 90 days. It's a rational solution, it's to correct this bill. I hope that this amendment will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u286	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 216 - for, 229 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 30e applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left, has submitted a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the event of changes in timetables, we must remember that the railway works for passengers and their interests must be taken into account in the proposed changes. The aim of this amendment is to allow those who use the turn to prepare more in advance for changes in their timetables, to plan a one-off or permanent journey to their home or workplace, or simply to buy advance tickets with discounts offered by carriers. Changes in timetables always make it difficult to use the railways. Let us therefore try to inform them in advance enough to simply minimize the confusion for the benefit of both the users and the carriers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u288	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 212 - for, 232 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 applicants propose to Applicants shall also propose a different wording of point 3 in Article. 36. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 38ba applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another amendment to take account of the interests of those who benefit from it in their daily lives. We must not forget that travel to work, home or school is an important part of the organisation of the day and any major changes, and this is undoubtedly the liquidation of the line, should be announced well in advance, so as to enable people using a given line to plan another route, to use another means of transport or to make more significant changes. Because it often happens that when choosing a place of work or education, we also take into account the possibility of commuting by public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u290	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of cutting the 5th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 208 - for, 234 - against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 38ba applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left, has submitted a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of this amendment, the aim is to strengthen the state-of-the-art state-of-the-art status of the railway line, with a clear and explicit ban on the elimination of such lines. The reasons for this amendment are clear. Since a given railway line is of national importance for economic, social, defence or environmental reasons, such considerations are mentioned in the Rail Transport Act in Article. 6, adding at the same time in the mouth. 2a that this status cannot be abolished, the introduction of the possibility of eliminating such a line is not only a legal bubble, but also a completely illogical procedure, given the importance of these lines for Polish transport. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u292	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 208 - for, 234 - against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 38h. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 209 - for, 229 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3 in the Amending Act containing an amendment to the Act Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We will support all subsequent amendments because they improve this project. This is also the case for Amendment 8. It would be good if the Ministry explained why, in the case of the original assumption, namely the protection of the areas where the railway lines are, where the transport corridors are, there was basically an attempt to reverse the communalisation of the assets of the 1990s. This provision of the article. 3. In fact, it aims to expropriate local governments from the assets they received in the 1990s as a result of the transfer of state assets. This is very clearly explained by government institutions. The Ministry didn't find recognition. Meanwhile, it's a hit in the local government. It is therefore necessary to accept this amendment, to delete Article. 3. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I encourage the Ministry to return to the original concept, because it's going to be good for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u294	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 208 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a in the Amending Act containing an amendment to the Real Estate Management Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Hanna Gill-Friday, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u295	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'll be the spokesperson for the trams again. I would like to ask that, consistently, following the principle of legal certainty, you include those tram lines which, thanks to this law, will be able to be run no longer with the RID, no longer accompanied by the road, into the catalogue of the public target. For this catalogue in recent years, e.g. in the Revitalization Act, there are added hiking strings or bicycle roads. Then the municipalities will have no doubt that this is a public objective. Therefore, I would ask for a consistent amendment to the Real Estate Management Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u296	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 211 - for, 229 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 4 The amending act shall propose a different wording of the following paragraph. 3a in Article 39 Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment is primarily about keeping as many areas and infrastructure as possible for rail transport, including after the liquidation of the line and the use of the real estate units of the local government. The absence of such a provision could further destroy or remove rail infrastructure and replace it, for example. road or bicycle infrastructure, which could lead to further loss of railway infrastructure, which should be expanded rather than liquidated, should be a strategic objective of the public authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u298	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 207 for, 237 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 6 The amending act shall propose a different wording of point 25 of paragraph 2. Article 1 4 Act on public collective transport. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 12 and 13 futile. The question was asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment aims at securing the integration of the railway network and maintaining its functionality. The limitation of voivodship rail services to 30 km from the border of voivodship is the setting of a border without any functional justification. Why 30 kilometers, not 20 or 50? This provision does not take into account the basic purpose of the transport network and the primary objective is to allow for a free and smooth journey. The border of the voivodship should therefore be a node station in the neighbouring voivodship, not a rigidly defined limit of 30 km, which takes into account administrative and not infrastructure conditions. The railway network is intended for efficient and smooth transport, which is friendly to people using this transport. It is precisely the perspective of travellers that should be decisive here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u300	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 217-- for, 229-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 6 The amending act shall propose a different wording of point 25 of paragraph 2. Article 1 4 Act on public collective transport. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 13. The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I stand here as a spokesperson travelling by rail, especially on these, I would say, short sections where it is about commuting to work, commuting to school, everyday life. Well, the Ministry - and it would be good if the Minister explained why - adopted an arbitrary rigid border of 30 km, where really these streams of travelers are directed and organized between junction stations. Today we need inter-voivodship connections to a wider extent than provided by the law, but in such a way as to enable communication between node stations. And not with the Marshal's permission, because we know what it's like, not every Marshal will agree. We need a look and a look at the travelers in the center. This amendment of ours puts a traveler to work at a school downtown. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The marshal shouldn't be downtown. This amendment must be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 6 The amending act shall propose a different wording of point 25 of paragraph 2. Article 1 4 Act on public collective transport. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And here are the questions. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A good idea that could have become a very good bill. Unfortunately, it turned out that the Marshal's interests are more important than travelers' interests, that the interests of those who travel on short stretches to work to school are not taken into account, only the interests of the Marshal are more important. It is a pity that this law in the article. 3 hits self-government. It should not be that, when creating good, expected solutions, the law contains bad solutions which prevent the full support of the proposed legislation. We addressed questions and to the Ministry, and during the work of the committee of one, the other, during the debate here in the High House, unfortunately the ministry remained deaf to the expectations of citizens. It is therefore not possible to fully support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u304	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, despite the rejection of all the amendments tabled by us, the Left will vote in favour of this proposal. The issues related to rail transport are very important for us, they are important for all Poles, and certainly, we know this, they need to be organized. That is why we will put together our own project in which we will address these issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u306	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u307	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today in this Chamber, Minister Adamczyk expressed deep regret at the closure of railway line 50 from Red Boru to Zambrów. I have a question as to whether the Ministry is planning to restore this line. If so, I would suggest that this money be transferred to the construction of the Western-South Zambrowa ring road, which is expected by a large part of the Podlaskie voivodship. And I would like to ask Members to read about line 50, how important this line is and how strategic it has been and is still important today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u308	Thank you. The Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! It's a good bill. Right now. It's a good bill. We may differ in five, ten kilometers from the entry of a regional train into the neighbouring voivodship, but we cannot be deaf to the need to change the existing regulations that limit the connection of networks in a given voivodship. I am surprised to the Members of the Civic Coalition that this is how they approach this problem. I'm surprised you're against solutions you couldn't afford for eight years. You were deaf to requests, to appeals, to various requests in this regard. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That bill could have been... This is a good bill because I hope for a few decades... It's time to wake up. ...blocks the possibility of winding down railway lines. You have a lot on your conscience when we're talking about shutting down the train lines. Apartment plus. This is a good bill, because it will effectively fight the exclusion of communication. Up to 30 kilometers only. And given the experience of the last 30 years, taking into account the experience of the left, as I was talking about yesterday, and today during the Seym debate, reminding us of over 2600 km of the destroyed railway lines... The Left Club, the Members of the Left, learned from this. It was a memento for them. However, you have failed to learn from this intention, which you failed to achieve in your second term of office, namely the liquidation of 3000 km of railway lines. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you... First of all, I would like to thank Members of all parliamentary clubs for their very substantive discussion and debate on this subject. Thank you very much for the amendments proposed during the work on the bill. I hope that the High House will vote in favour of this bill in the spirit of responsibility for all those who are excluded from communication today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u310	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 91 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 316 - for, 1 - against, 130 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 143. The question was raised by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wanted to start with the memory of a great Polish philosopher - Fr. Professor Józef Tischner, who introduced three categories of truth, unpruderably saying: truth, holy truth and shit truth. What's with the bill? Let's take a look at the justification that the Ministry of Finance wrote. The proposed solutions change the scope of the service of providing personal income tax to taxpayers by the tax authorities with pre-filled tax returns. Is that a fake? Oh, no. But is it true? In Tischner's terms, bullshit. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh... Who are you? Where are you? What are you excited about? They're changing the scope of service in this particular... Mr President, I understand that you are quoting, but do not abuse this quote. Once was enough, okay? Please, sir. I hope your marshal reads some Tischner. It'll come in handy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not in the theater. We're in the Seym. It's an important distinction. If... [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal, I can't... Mr... I wanted to ask you a question. There you go, question and there's no... Because you're changing the scope of the service, i.e. you are extending exactly one year's entry into force of solutions that are beneficial to taxpayers. Time's up. Mr President, the question is: You're covering for the Ministry of Finance's incapacity. Well, thank you, then. We'll proceed with the vote. And I have a question. Mr President, you have not asked a question. How much does the company of Critical Applications cost us? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u312	Mr President, that was not a question. The second question is asked by Hanna Gill-Friday, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u313	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'd approve, but I can't. I'm not gonna... Courage. Go ahead. I will not remind you here, as the Prime Minister said, that he will favour micro- and small entrepreneurs, because it is the salt of this land. And now they're not getting this pre-filled print, this form. They're gonna have to wait for that. I will no longer bully the Ministry of Finance, which prepares amendments and projects for large corporations, but somehow forgets those small entrepreneurs who have to spend 334 hours a year on paper and not earn enough money to hire someone. So because this project is simply from a mess and from the fact that you promised something (the bell), they even said something, and they didn't keep it, I'm just asking: When are you going to make this form available to small entrepreneurs that will make their lives easier? That's the only question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u314	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 143 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 263 - for, 177 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law on the establishment of the Polish Science Day. The additional committee report shall be in print No 127-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u315	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law on the establishment of the Polish Science Day, contained in print No 127-A. The first reading of the project took place on January 8. Four minority proposals were submitted at the time. At today's second reading, two amendments were tabled, identical to the conclusions of the minority previously tabled. The Commission has examined the amendments and recommends that the High Sejm reject them. The Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law in print 116. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u316	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 127. The Commission sets out minority proposals and in an additional report the amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal, applicants propose a different recital. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Left, with the task of questioning. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From the first moment of the process on the law, the Left declares that we are ready and ready to support the initiative to create a Polish Science Day. Because the Left sees and appreciates the achievements of Polish scientists and scientists. Ha, ha, ha! Get her out of here. But the Left - apart from seeing the past, appreciating the past - thinks and looks to the future. That is why we proposed a recital in which we not only look at the history of Polish science, but also believe that this science, that Polish science has a bright future ahead of it. If you share our faith, if you share the hope that the challenges facing Polish science today can be met, you will agree to a recital that is not only in the past, but also sees the hope and the future (The Bell) of Polish science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u318	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 - for, 238 - against, 3 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to establish the Day of Polish Science on 7 November. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal and the same 1st amendment. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak with a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You propose the establishment of a Polish Science Day at a time when most academics either hold a session or a revision session, or take a semester break. You are proposing a date of 19 February when no one in the academic community can fully celebrate this holiday, which you wish to establish. This is not just the opinion of the Left Club, it is the opinion of academics, among others. student environments and academics, expressed during the meeting of the Education Committee. If you want to set this holiday really for Polish science, not just because you need a date on 19 February for a certain election campaign, you should agree to the date of 7 November. The date of 7 November is the birth date of Maria Skłodowska-Curie, which you yourself mention in the explanatory memorandum of the Act (Dzwonek) as an important figure of Polish science. It is also a date just before another festival, the World Science Day, and after all, Polish science is part of world science. Thank you. Copernicus was a woman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u320	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 178 - for, 266 - against, abstained 2. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal and the same 1st amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose that the Day of Polish Science be established on 10 December. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition, with a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish science deserves respect, but it also deserves funding. There are only games in this bill, no bread. We would be pleased, Minister - I am talking to Minister Gowin - if this bread were, because Polish science actually deserves it, but we would also be glad if you listened to the voice of academics, including the voice of the University of Warsaw, which says that the deadline is wrong, because then there are either exams or revision sessions. They want to celebrate, they want to be grateful for this holiday, but not only when you want to celebrate, but when they have time and opportunities. There is no justification, except for your personal sympathies with Nicolaus Copernicus or with the University of Toruń, so that you may consider this day appropriate. We propose the day of December 10, which is the day when the first Nobel hit the hands of the Polish woman, Maria Skłodowska-Curie. An equally good date, and much more convenient (Bingle) for the academic community. Be with people sometimes, not just with each other. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u322	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority proposal and the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 178 - for, 264 - against, abstained 2. I state that the Sejm's request for minorities and the amendment has been rejected. In the 4th minority proposal and the 2nd amendment to Article. 3 applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Question - Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It would seem that Polish science is an important issue. It would be worth sticking to standards, including democratic standards, that you choose to lack vacathio legis. We have long wondered what's wrong with the bill coming into force after 14 days. And it came out of the bag. The Minister has already arranged a party in Toruń and you invite him to give the prizes. The law is not kept only because the Ministry decided to give awards that day. [[Applause]] And they're gonna do everything as fast and as simple as, without public consultation, without additional funding. Minister, it's just weak. The world of science deserves to be governed by law. Please include vacathio legis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u324	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority proposal and the 2nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 209 - for, against - 234, 3 abstained. I state that the Sejm's request for minorities and the amendment has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before that, the question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u325	With enthusiasm, Your Honorable Marshal, the honorable gathered, we will support this project if we agree that the Day of Polish Science should also be a day of national mourning. The reform of the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is a central vacuum cleaner sucking Polish intellectual product outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. Central integrated system of sandboxes for science smart guys. My favourite NAWA - National Academic Exchange Agency, is to promote Polish language teaching outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. With respect for science, with respect. Bravo! That's how you spin ice cream in science. Besides, Minister Gowin is a Smolensk liar who, from this speaker, persuaded you that with the Smolensk coffins everything was lege artis, but now you've crossed the past with a thick line and let the Minister put this cherry on the cake of the system he created. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u326	Thank you very much. There was no question, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 127 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 423 - for, against - 14, 7 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of a Polish Science Day. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition, joined the question before voting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The facts concerning this law are as follows. First of all, it's not any law on any transfer, it's a law on the looting of hard-earned money by Poles, [[Applause]] which were supposed to guarantee pensions. Secondly, it's a short-sighted attempt to hide the budget deficit. Thirdly, the leadership of the political sponsors of this shameful law, i.e. the leadership of the PiS, is not interested in this subject, because the pension is already received and this pension, anyway, will flow into the pocket. Fourthly, this proposal does not touch those who live on a national tit, it is an attitude that PiS is honored with today, because these people have not raised pension funds in OFE. Fifthly, most importantly, this is another proposal, another shameful act that strikes active, entrepreneurial people, those who take matters into their own hands (The Bell), work hard for their lives. The place of this bill is in the trash of history and every decent man will vote against it today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u328	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Lewis, a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u329	High Izbo! The Left also requested that this project be rejected at first reading, although for other reasons than the Civic Coalition. I'm also outraged by the words that came out here about hanging on my tit, because it's hitting people working in the budget, for example. I don't understand such a disrespectful approach to a large crowd of employees. Why are we against this? Ofe was a project from the beginning fatal and catastrophic for the Polish budget and for the social security system. It has led to a huge deficit and crisis, a huge budget hole. Are you doing something about it? No. You continue to privatise the social security system that threatens our future and stabilise the future of our pensioners. This is another example of the fact that your words were thrown into the wind again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we really want to maintain the system, we need to invest in the budgetary sphere and in the sphere of the state, because only the state guarantees us a safe future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u330	Thank you very much, Member. And last, I hope, question. We are at a questioning stage, I remind you, when voting, ladies and gentlemen, not during speeches. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question. Are the Polish Sejm a bunch of thieves? Yeah, I guess so. And it's the thieves of the worst sort, because the state isn't robbing from consumption, from current money. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Hey, hey. You rob Poles in the worst way - with their pension savings. Not just the country. I'm also talking about the Civic Platform. A few years ago, the Civic Platform was short on budget, public debt grew... Don't lie to me, man! Don't lie to me! ...150 billion PLN, stolen from allegedly individual private pension accounts. A little gentler country - 15% From what's left... Sit down if you don't know. ... 20 billion stolen. Poles have no pension guarantee, no safety. The Polish companies which set up business activity are hard to put aside on the ZUS, and then they get information that the ZUS undermines their right to provide. This is an outrage. In the word fraud is the acronym of the ZUS - chance? I don't think so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u332	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u333	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the messenger of the Left perverted the words I said. It was simply about those, first of all, who could work and can't, they don't want to, because the system created for 4 years allows them to live really well, better than workers who provide benefits, better than officials, better than those who run their own businesses. This is a system created by Law and Justice, which allows a really good life without work, on benefits. Secondly, it is about these pockets of vice-ministers, the largest government of modern Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u334	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law at first reading to amend certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts in print No 114 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216 - for, 228 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the amendment of the resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Polish Wedding with the Sea in Puck (print No 153). The draft resolution aims to remove an obvious mistake in the content of the resolution adopted by the Sejm on 16 October 2019. The amendment consists in referring in the content of the resolution to Maciej Rataj Stefan Łaszewski, Pomeranian Voivodeship in 1919 and 1920. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole, in print 153, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For -441, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of the Year of Polish Wedding with the Sea in Puck. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 150). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is accepting the proposal, in print 150, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 434 - for, 1 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 54 hrs. 17 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining (print No 31). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Wacław Cherkawski to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a citizens' project that signed 126,000. citizens. The project has the title: a citizens' bill amending the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of coal mining. I'm gonna read this project as a formality: Act amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining. Art. 1. In the Act of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of Coal Mining (Journal of Laws No. OJ 2007 No 1192, p. 1379 as amended.) is amended as follows: 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the following point 4 is inserted after point 3: former mining worker or mining establishment who had the power to sell coal on the basis of the provisions in force so far, and these powers have been removed or suspended by decision of the Boards of Boards of Coal Companies. 2. Art. 13a is replaced by the following: 30a. Benefits referred to in Article 12.14, the tasks referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and liquidation as referred to in Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 are financed by a budget grant. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. Of course, this project is already far out of date today, e.g. Article 2 13 no longer exists, but the problem remains. Since the first reading four years ago, when I also justified this project, a lot has changed. A good one. The situation of hard coal mining has changed, but as I looked at the justification from 4 years ago, just as there were problems in mining, so now there are, maybe some other kind, because now we have a huge problem with coal imports, we have a climate problem, and the mines blame themselves for all the sins of this world. And this is where I wanted to say that mining is a guarantee of the energy security of the country. It is impossible to eliminate Polish mining at a pace, as if some wanted, even instantly. There's a field to the so-called. renewable energy, even on the basis of these millions of tonnes of imported coal, even from Russia. This is the place for renewable energy sources. We have tried to talk to Greenpeace and with all environmental organisations, explaining that we need to introduce much slower but systematically renewable energy sources and not at the expense of Polish coal, because unfortunately we cannot change Polish energy from day to day to renewable energy sources. It has to be done as much as possible. We are in favour of renewable energy, clean air, but we are all responsible for climate change, the whole society, the whole world, and not, as some people want to say, only Polish coal. And yet we have to mention the so-called. the social side, very or even insanely important, i.e. workplaces. Warming buildings is not a solution for miners who close mines. And this is where you need to reach. for funds from the European Union, because such measures are for restructuring, which is still ongoing. I remind you that 24 mines were already destroyed at the beginning of the transformation, now 15 more mining plants have ceased to operate. Of course, by the way, it didn't change in any way, in any way, the climate, it didn't improve it. As he changed, so he keeps changing. But it's kind of different, maybe not for this place. But back to the main topic, these are the deputies for the miners who worked hard and who, as they took part in the work, were assured that this deputy would have. The PiS government tried to solve this so that the problem could be reduced. In some parts he did it, but not for everyone. There is a large group of people left who are clearly disadvantaged and need to be dealt with in the Parliamentary Committee out of respect for them. Matter is very complicated, in terms of legislative, legal and even formal terms, but there is a chance in the committee, even out of respect for these people, to deal with this problem and try to solve it. Because these miners just deserve it. Let me remind you, the last time I looked at the archival photos of Balcerowicz's speech was when the first reform came in. He's already whining there that coal mining is shrinking. I'm sure he doesn't say that anymore. After him many ministers, prime ministers even called for increased coal extraction, because it was our wealth, it was said: our Polish gold. Now coal is treated as a stepmother - that is the brutal truth and it needs to be changed, and especially the respect for miners needs to be restored. One of the elements of regaining this respect for miners is the Coal Deputies Act, which has been for centuries. We had records there that even before the war those deputies were already there and it didn't hurt anyone. Now there are social groups that have this deputy -- I don't want to exchange them so that they don't get hurt -- and the miners get taken away, they try to make up for it, but they don't do it for everyone. I'm not gonna prolong my speech, especially since I can see that the rules have changed a little bit here. As I performed four years ago, I had unlimited time, I could talk much more and more about the project, and now I have 15 minutes, so out of respect for Members I will not extend, but I will call for this proposal to be sent to the committee so that the committee can deal with it thoroughly and, above all, the committee's sitting, because I remind you that the last time there was a first reading, all the clubs unanimously supported this project. Each club supported him and he was assigned to the committee. But so what? There wasn't a single committee meeting. People remember that. The retirees, the miners saw it, and they ask what it's like, how this Seym works. Here in the plenary room, everyone supported us, and when it came to the process, there was not a single committee meeting. I hope that now, if the Honourable Sejm decides, of course, that this project needs to be considered in the Sejm committee, this committee will take place. To conclude, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Civil Committee today, for having received this committee, which supported 126 000 in writing. citizens, one more chance to proceed with this Coal Deputies Act. I would like to ask you to refer this proposal to the Parliamentary Committee for further examination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u336	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining. As stated by the Sejm Analysis Office in its opinion of 20 April 2016, the proposed citizens' bill does not take into account that the law was amended again on 22 December 2015 and on this basis Article. 13 of the law to which the projector wishes to introduce point 4 in paragraph 4. On 1 January 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission by Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The projector therefore seeks to add provisions to the non-binding Article. 13 laws. In addition, by virtue of the aforementioned amendment, the Article has ceased to apply. The 9th Act, and the article of this drafter, is set up in order to modify the content of the article. 30a. The draft also contains a transitional provision providing for the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2016 and therefore retroactively. In addition, the citizens' project obliges the mining company identified in the Act to issue free coal in kind to former mining workers or mining plants who were entitled to a coal depot on the basis of existing legislation, and these powers have been taken away or suspended by decision of the coal companies' boards. It should be noted that the entitlement to free coal results only from collective labour agreements in force in the mining company concerned. It is therefore not possible to grant the right to free coal to former employees of coal companies. It is not possible to restore this right in any way other than by amending the collective labour agreements in force in these companies accordingly. The collective agreement shall be governed in addition to the conditions to be met by the content of the employment relationship, including the mutual obligations of the parties to the agreement. The proposal for financing the employer's obligations by the state budget contained in the draft law may constitute unlawful State aid. It should also be noted that the differences between the legal situation of eligible persons to whom the Social Security Office pays the cash equivalent and the legal situation of former employees of the mine or mining plant referred to in the draft law, pensioners and pensioners to whom the Social Security Office pays the cash equivalent have not been renounced and only their work place has been terminated, and the State has therefore assumed the burden of financing the commitment in question. On the other hand, it is not appropriate for the State budget to finance the payment of the equivalent with the granting of the right to free coal. As regards former mining workers or mining plants, who were entitled to and lost coal debt under existing collective agreements, I would like to draw attention to the two laws which entered into force in 2017 and 2018 on the basis of which persons who were not mining companies acquired the right to compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. The draft laws were submitted by the Government of PiS and the compensation was financed by the State budget. On the basis of the first Act of 12 October 2017 on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal, the largest group of persons acquired the right to compensation, i.e. former employees of mining companies, i.e. pensioners and widows and orphans after them. The second Law of 23 November 2018 on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company extends to a circle of persons entitled to widows and orphans from deceased workers, as well as persons who are on pre-retirement benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club agrees with the proposal for this bill to be put to the committee's deliberations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u338	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of today's civil project! The law we are debating today is an example of how the government takes Silesia seriously and how it treats miners. I wanted to remind you that in 2016, here in this room, the first reading of this project took place. Here we talked about the problems that were presented today. Here, in this room, the first reading was carried out. For four years, this project was unable to be dealt with on the committee. He was sent to the committee. All parliamentary clubs then decided to send this proposal to the committee and further debate there. Of course, the situation has changed considerably over the four years. I would like to remind you that as early as 2016, in January 2016, I informed the Minister for Foreign Affairs. restructuring mining and I talked about it when he started dismantling mines and eliminating jobs in mines. I said that we should take care of the coal debt, that the situation is underway, because on the one hand the State Treasury finances this coal debt for former employees of companies restructuring mines, on the other hand for employees of PRG PBSz, who were also retired. Until now, while the companies were in operation and were not being wound up and converted, the companies themselves paid out this coal debt. Of course, the economic situation in coal companies merged and, in agreement, the CEOs of the boards of companies, in agreement with the trade unions, either liquidated or suspended for 3 years, or still paid. By the end of 2017, they paid coal sales in Tauron Extraction and in Bogdanka. Under the rule of law and justice, after the entry into force of the 2017 Act, 6 thousand. Humans have been deprived of the Coal Deputy by law. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The way in which law and justice treats miners and treats Silesia, we see it every year, from election to election. They talk about the hard work of the miner, they talk about how Silesia is important and what can be done in Silesia. As I said earlier, in 2016, I reminded the Minister of Energy, and today the former Minister of Energy, Mr. Tchórzewski, about the fact that when Tauron was talking about the liquidation of the coal depot by the Coal Company, he said here, from this Parliament stand: if this debt was to be liquidated by coal companies, it should be taken over by the state, as it was done in the case of railwaymen. I checked and actually about 250,000. Railwayrs receive the payment of the coal debt from the state budget, and this is the amount of over PLN 300 million. But then, when I told the Minister of Energy here, from this tribune, the Deputy Minister of Energy, that the subject had to be addressed, I heard the Minister's words that the subject is really important, the need for a specialty, it will appear in a short time, it will be passed within a few months and the subject is recognized. It took a good dozen, several dozen months. In July 2017, we receive what? We're getting a bill. Everyone thought it was a continuation of the ordering of this topic, and this is the bill on compensation, on the liquidation of the coal debt for a one-off briefing of 10,000. zł. They gave the miners 10,000. The silverware to force them to give up their claims regarding the payment of the coal debt. She was incompetent enough to have to be corrected again. It appeared in 2019. Women, widows, orphans protested. This bill has been amended. Even those retirees who left after 2015 have not yet received compensation. The government didn't take care of them. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' project discussed today regulates e.g. all these issues. We can say how we heard here and how we learn from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office that it may be defective that further records have been repealed. Yeah, it's true, it's been repealed, it's been rescinded by the carelessness of the government, by tardiness, by freezing this bill in committee. Today on behalf of the Civic Coalition (The Bell) I wanted to declare work on this project in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u340	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented by Maciej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This citizens' bill was submitted during the previous term of office of the Sejm. The issue of coal deputies concerned has since been resolved to some extent through the compensation laws of October and November 2017. As we can learn from the opinion of OPZZ, these solutions have led to a reduction of tensions in the mining environment. However, they do not exhaust the problem as a whole, moreover, they do not cover all the groups concerned. We are therefore faced with a clear inequality in accessing this benefit and, for example, this inequality of the solutions adopted and the omission of important social groups - at this point around 15 000. people are not covered by any of the proposed solutions at all - it requires that this citizens' project be addressed to the committee, despite the fact that it actually concerns a non-existent or outdated legal situation. As a Left, we are strongly in favour of working on this project, and it is really working, not only directing it to committee and forgetting, directing it to committee and bury it, directing it to committee and freezing it, but really, really working to solve the problem. As a Left, we very much appreciate the organization and effort of the mining community, the environment of mining pensioners, which led to the application. The miners have often shown what a solidarity struggle is for decent working conditions and for decent living. Unfortunately, the voice of the social side, the voice of the trade unions is too rarely taken into account in the debate on mining and wider energy. The lack of a plan and lack of social dialogue are the two biggest sins of the current power in terms of mining, energy and energy transformation. This is worth discussing today, also when working in the committee on this project, because in this way, we can best appreciate this 126 thousand. people who signed up for the project. As I said, the lack of a plan and the lack of social dialogue are the two biggest sins of Polish energy policy, sins for which miners pay the outstanding promises of the government, and all of us with higher electricity bills. Energy transformation, green transformation, moving away from fossil fuel-based energy is necessary. Without a thoughtful, courageous, coherent and dissected project of the Polish energy transformation, we are doomed to the prices of electricity rising at an astronomical rate, to the social costs felt most in Silesia related to the elimination of good quality jobs, finally to an ecological disaster, for which not only our children and grandchildren will pay for, but also us, because we will already pay for it in our lives. It is clear to us that such a plan of transformation, fair transformation cannot be created without the participation of mining trade unions, without the participation of the social side. Let us use the presence of the social side on the occasion of this law to start this much-needed conversation. The climate disaster is approaching in great steps. The need to move away from fossil fuels is burning, unfortunately already literally in the case of Australia, the Amazon, or Siberia. Coal energy will only be more expensive. Nothing, however, will change in these matters if we close Polish mines just to import more coal from Russia. Only our energy security - for the worse - will change the situation of the mining community - for the worse. We can't save the climate that way. What we need is a fair energy transition, a shift away from fossil fuel generation and moving towards green technologies, but a move away that does not turn good quality jobs into worse, less stable, less paid jobs, such a move away, the costs of which will not be passed on to most Poles living from the first to the first. The rebellion of the yellow vests in France has shown that either the energy transformation will be fair or it will not be at all. We need a coherent plan for a fair and green energy transition, and we have a series of ad hoc actions and inconsistent government documents. Instead of the necessary investments in renewable energy sources, we received, for example, a distance bill that completely plowed wind energy in Poland, wind energy on land. Dramatically, there is a lack of money for research into new green technologies and energy generation and storage. Because of these neglects, we are already dragging in the tail of the green transformation. The lack of money for research today results in the inferior role of the Polish economy in the future, because we will be doomed to import technology from others. Lack of plan and lack of social dialogue threaten Polish energy security and sentence us to huge increases in electricity prices. It doesn't have to be like this. A fair green energy transition is an opportunity for economic development, for new, quality jobs in industry, for new jobs in production for renewable energy sources and transmission infrastructure, which dramatically needs renewal. Just a moment, I'm on my way to the end. Especially in my family Silesia, where there is no shortage of fantastic, skilled workers, engineers, technical scientists. It's a huge potential we can't waste. Today we are dealing with a citizens' bill on mining deputies. We have the opportunity to ensure justice and equal access to benefits in this particular section. The Left Club is in favour of directing the project to committee, for real work on this project. And that this would be the beginning of a real social dialogue on mining and energy transformation in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u342	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak with the position of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u343	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It looks too funny and it's really hard to discuss it today, after all these years, but it shows how the Law and Justice approach their promises. That's what these promises are. It was supposed to be a democratic package, we were supposed to respect the citizens. What's going on now? Citizens organize, groups organize, collect signatures. There is already developed technology, this is already developed in the government technology: we do first reading in the hall and end, period. The entire term of the project is to lie down. At the end of the term of office, it would even be inappropriate to start before the elections. And that's what happens to every project. It's not the only project. That's what happens to every project. I'll trade it. We're about to proceed on a volunteer firefighter appendage project. Same thing. The first reading was directed, what a sacred thing, to the committee. You'll have to complain to the committee. The Seym has nothing to do with this anymore. We're still bouncing the ball. And the firefighters are waiting, asking, asking. There's a project on the committee, it's being processed. The next civic project will be discussed at the next meeting. Retirement tax-free. The first reading in the Seym was a full term, and now, of course, it comes back because it is in the Rules of Procedure, because it cannot lose its validity. But what? The next four years are on the committee. So the question is, why all the fun? Where's the reasonableness in all this? Why are we fooling people? Because we go to people, as politicians, as civic committees that are organizing, we talk about a problem. People sign up for this because they want to solve this problem, and then there's powerlessness: the freezer and it goes to the Sejm for further storage. And so it may happen that the same project will be discussed for the third time, for the fourth time, for the fourth time. Well, the Members will declare: We are in favour. In this case, too. There's a detour, and it needs to be fixed. If such declarations have been made in the election campaign, if such declarations are made here today and politicians cannot afford to say: No, we will not proceed on this project, we reject it, then why is this fun? We are in favour of this in the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, to bring this to an end, to proceed on this project. 'Cause now we're talking about a carbon deputy. The question is, which coal? From the one we were mined from or from the one we brought from Russia? Maybe I'll ask ironically, but that's how some people can interpret it, because it's all falling apart. A serious discussion should also take place - but a serious discussion - about what has already been said here, my predecessor said about it, i.e. renewable energy. Because we're charming the miners. On the one hand, we promise: we will not eliminate your mines, and then we will eliminate them after the election. We eliminate, close the mines, and Mr Krzysztof Gadowski cannot cope with the defence of these mines. And that's the truth. We say we're not going to replace it because we have coal for 200 years, we're going to feed it and energy is going to be carbon, and on the other hand, we're going to the West and we're saying, "No, because that's what we have to say in our country." Because it's the right thing to do, because it's the right thing to do. No, this should be a fair, honest debate. There's a problem with smog, environmental pollution, CO2. The Polish People's Party is in favour of this, your marshal, to proceed quickly on this project as well as on other civil projects. Because we have to settle it before the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u344	Thank you very much, sir. We still remember the time when citizens' projects were rejected at first reading. Let's get to the questions. Nine Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u345	Minister! Why haven't you considered this important civil project to restore the rights acquired to the miners so far? What are you waiting for? After all, you're giving away so much money to different social groups. The miners deserve our support, fair and fair treatment for their hard work. This proposal should not only be addressed to the committee, but also deal with it as soon as possible, remove legal defects and update in line with the current state of law. You can't keep freezing him in committees, waiting for the miners to die out and solve the problem on their own. How long are the miners supposed to wait? After all these years, it's time to finally solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u346	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Although I am from the sea, I would like to take the floor and ask a question about this very important law in my view, especially since I have learned something about how our mining works. And cordial greetings from Minister Jack Piechota, whom I also spoke to on this subject. Indeed, we are dealing with a law which concerns acquired rights. My question is this: How is it that when it comes to State Treasury companies owned by the government, in some companies these obligations are fulfilled, in others they are not implemented? And the second question: Are we able to say today, what group, how many people are involved in this problem? After all, for four years this civic project was lying in a desk, so no doubt these calculations are already inadequate (the bell) in relation to what we should be talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u349	Dear Applicants! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! This project has been waiting four years, a civic project under which 126 thousand signed. residents, mainly inhabitants of the Silesian Voivodeship. Among the retired and Rencists of the mining sector concerned, there are also thousands of residents of my constituency: Czechowice-Dziedzic, Pszczyny, Silesia Cieszyński, Bielska-Biała, Bielski County, Silesia Pszczyńskiego, also Żywiecczyzna. Minister, I wanted to ask: will this project be adopted in this term of office? We would like it to be passed this year, and that the 140 zlotys that thousands of pensioners and miners are waiting for will come to them. Is there any chance that these 140 zlotys per person will be paid with interest? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask from the point of view of public finances: What is the scale? How many people would have received this civic project, and what would it be? I believe that avoiding this topic for four years is absolutely not including the voice of the citizens. And we don't really know - because it doesn't come from this project - about the financial consequences of this project. I think that the Sejm, Members, must have this information so that they can continue to discuss these matters. I ask for a concrete answer to the question: What are the annual amounts and what would they look like in the longer term? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u352	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, who is present here: How many people have benefited from benefits, from compensation for the lost right to the coal debt? I know there was a $250,000 application. You can say that this is the 5/6 implementation of this law, which has been notified. Today there are people whose right to obtain a coal debt is limited. Who took out the coal miners? Is this - as some people here are trying to say - the law of the Law and Justice Government? Was it under the rule of the Civic Platform and of the PSL when coal was collected? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u354	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm just wondering where the seriousness of the state in all this business is about eliminating mines. In Poland there were about 70 mines, now there were twenty pairs left. It is well known that the State must take on an obligation to compensate those who have stopped working and those who are retired from mining, for example, for fulfilling their obligations. from collective labour agreements. And now we divide one mine into 10,000. compensation for deputies - I calculated that this is about 10 years old, so we hope that the miner will not live longer than 10 years after the end of work. And on the other hand, you say, "We're gonna do it here, we're gonna do it there." Everyone's just whimsical. If we want to think seriously about Poland's energy change, if we are to change energy carriers, i.e. to eliminate from the perspective of mines, then we must give a guarantee that we will do all of this (the bell) for these families and for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u357	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have a question for you: How many people, former miners, are receiving a coal debt paid out of the Treasury budget at the moment? What are those entities from which they retired? Please say: Do railroaders, after the loss of the coal debt, which was previously paid by the PKP, have a coal depot paid out by the State Treasury? And one last question. Minister, this bill you're hiding, so-called. The compensation bill, the 10,000. PLN did not include mining pensioners who have retired since 2015. You have introduced a compensation bill - since 2017. Then you corrected her, she was so incompetent, in 2018. I wanted to ask you what you're gonna do with these miners. This group is about 10,000. They're always asking, writing to the minister, to the Prime Minister. Will these people (the bell) be able to claim compensation, 10,000. Evil? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u358	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for the government. Do you have any thoughts on how to solve this problem? It's been four years. I don't think that's surprising, and it's not a new case, you should be prepared for that. The specific question is: Will this problem be solved? Because that's the problem. And the second question is to your marshal. As the Polish People's Party, we will take action to ensure that there is no such embarrassing situation for the Sejm - because we ridicule ourselves - that the project will pass from term to term, term to term and even longer. The point is that, in the course of the term of office, the project will be finalized. The case has to be settled, it's a citizen's project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u360	Thank you, sir. It is a very good initiative, but it is a pity that there were no such initiatives when you co-ordinated. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the Initiators... [[♪ The bell ♪]] He hasn't started yet, and he's already spoken. I wanted to start well, but... I can't control it. I'm really happy for you, because that's how... Time's running out. Anyway, it's not me, sir, I'm turning it on. I wanted to thank the initiators very warmly, who are aware that this social problem is not only a political element. Above all, it is about getting an important social interest. Over 126,000. signatures. It's a deep conviction of the environment that wants to feel taken care of. Today you can safely say that his business is in our hands. Except four years have been lost. Maybe not 4 years, because 2016 was the beginning of this initiative, but if the Sejm of the Republic of Poland wants to have the conviction that it is helping just such groups of interests, which today - without political color, all of them - signed up for the civic project, then we should quickly renegotiate it. This is not about us closing the case in three or four days, in one sitting. As Members of Parliament here have said, there is a need for supra-political agreement. It's gotta be done. Good will is all it takes. I have an appeal to the Minister and to the parliamentarians of the Law and Justice (the bell): let's do it because it is a good idea for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u362	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Adam Gawada, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this initiative, the debate, the proposals put forward here. I would like to address a few in such an aggregated way. There were quite a few questions. But before I do, I would like to give you a few facts from recent years, from this story, when the right to a coal debt for pensioners and miners was granted as the privilege of a special social group in recognition of the work she has done - working conditions, certain difficulties and risks associated with all mining professions. It was, of course, 1974. This was formulated in the Labour Code and the relevant Regulation of 1981, the Council of Ministers regulation on special privileges for mining workers. That's when the so-called. Miner's card. Of course, changes to the Labour Code were made in the following years, which led to the repeal of the article. 79, introducing the provision that the provisions in force until the date of the entry into force of the Act laying down the principles of remuneration for work and the granting of other work-related benefits, issued on the basis of Article, are applicable. 79 The Labour Code shall remain in force until such time as the workers concerned are covered by the provisions of the collective labour agreement or by other provisions of the labour law. Remember this, because these are regulations that result from these conditions, collective agreements in individual enterprises, in individual mining plants. In view of the above changes in the Labour Code, the entitlement to free coal for both workers and pensioners resulted from collective agreements in force in the mining company concerned. There are currently no other rules in place to grant the right to and the way it is implemented, in particular those of a general nature, given that collective agreements, agreements or other regulations in force in mining companies have been effectively terminated on the right to free coal for pensioners and pensioners. It is not possible to restore this right in any way other than through an appropriate amendment of the labour law provisions of the entities concerned, in the undertakings concerned, in the mining plants concerned. Here, too, Mr Matusiak referred to the legislative flaw of this citizens' bill. I do not want to develop this, but the proposed citizens' bill with this disadvantage also includes the article. 13 laws. The designer wants to put it in his mouth. 1 point 4, and this article simply does not exist anymore. The payment of equivalents can also, what is worth emphasising here, be presently, in the current legal state - we are a Member State of the European Union - illegal public aid. Ladies and gentlemen! It was also discussed by one of the Members about the violation of acquired rights. Often, in various speeches, stakeholders raise this issue. This question of infringement of acquired rights was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal, inter alia. in the judgment of 22 June 1999, sygn. K5/99. The Constitutional Tribunal held that the protection of acquired rights does not imply the integrity of those rights. The principle of protection of acquired rights is not absolute and does not preclude regulation of less favourable to the entity. In interfering with acquired rights, the employer should enable the interested parties to adapt to the new situation, in particular by introducing an appropriate vacathio legis. There are areas of life and situations where an entity has to consider that changing social or economic conditions may require changes in legislation, including changes that abolish or restrict existing guaranteed subjective rights. It is precisely from this judgment of the Constitutional Court that the employer should enable those concerned to adapt to the new situation. How did this happen in 2015? On quickly, without any consultation, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party proposed extraordinary records, because it is difficult to say that the ownership body does not influence the functioning of companies of the State Treasury. It's a collective arrangement. At that time the Polish People's Party was responsible for mining in this coalition, because the Minister of Economy was the politician of this party. I am talking about this because, much earlier, the employees of state-owned enterprises had said such conditions. They were PRG employees. Those who could not exercise this authority were often referred to in my parliamentary office. For 8 years, the Civic Platform and the PSL have not leaned to this at any time. I repeat, 8 years wasn't enough for such a project to effectively prepare and withdraw at least a zloty. Today, Members of Parliament, you have absolutely no legitimacy to plead for anything, because even the gold from the state budget did not then pay out to those to whom this privilege was spoken. But we're the ones who insist. In addition, I would also like to inform you that this is where you have invoked two laws. One is from 2017, October. The second law is the revised Law of 23 November 2018 on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company. And these two regulations covered, because that was the question, a total of 219,000. persons. Nearly PLN 2.2 billion was paid out. In the case of the first law, PLN 2.1 billion was paid out. The second law covered nearly 8,000. persons. In addition, on the basis of the judgments which took place in 2019, those whose law did not cover the case were referred to the courts. That was 331 people. This is the scale of our credibility and responsibility. PLN 2.2 billion has been paid out of the state budget to compensate for this, once again I will strongly stress, which has been unsuccessfully passed on the right to a deputy by the boards of companies supervised by the Civic Platform and PSL coalition. That's our responsibility. This should be strongly emphasised today. Of course, there are questions about what will happen next with this law, what will be the amount, how many people will be covered. It follows from the justification for this law that it will cover about 160 thousand. Retirement and pensioners. This is estimated at about 290 million PLN per year according to this calculation, which I quote here. The High Chamber will decide on further work on this law. The proposal is to refer this proposal to the committee responsible and lean on it. However, I would like to stress very strongly that the Social Insurance Institution pays the cash equivalent to the groups of persons entitled to it. No one has declared their right to free coal. All those for whom this right has not been terminated are covered by this benefit paid today by the Social Insurance Institution. Therefore, we are not dealing with a situation in which any group has been systematically excluded by the Social Insurance Institution. The citizens' project obliges a mining company, as defined in the Act, to issue free coal in the nature of a former mining worker or a mining establishment which had the power to a coal depot under the applicable rules, and these powers have been removed or suspended by decision of the coal companies' boards. As I have already stressed, the right to free coal is based solely on collective labour agreements in force in the mining company concerned. The collective work agreement shall be concluded between the employer and the social side represented by the trade unions. It is therefore not possible to grant the right to free coal to former workers by law. It is not possible to restore this right in any way other than by amending the provisions of the collective labour agreement in force in an undertaking or in mining undertakings accordingly. Another question. Why hasn't it been processed for so long? There is now a citizens' project and the High House will decide on the further fate of this law. As Mr Matusiak has said, this law is likely to be addressed to the committee responsible. On the question of how many people covered compensation or covered two laws that were prosecuted in 2017 and in 2018, I already answered. With regard to former miners who receive an equivalent or a benefit paid by the Social Security Office, this is specified in the Budget Act. I don't know exactly what size it is, but it's gonna be enough to pay out to everyone it covers this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u364	Thank you very much, Minister. To conclude, please take the floor of a representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Wacław Cherkawski. Come in, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The discussion has shown that the problem is not easy. The last thing I want is to try to argue with the other party instead of solving problems. Nobody's innocent. It was different because there were different situations in hard coal mining and it still presents differently. The idea of a civil project and this huge action to collect signatures under it was to develop a single project for all mining pensioners. We even figured it out, it's about 240 grand. mining pensioners. The costs were estimated by us at about PLN 270 million per year. It must be taken into account that on average every year from mining goes to the state budget of PLN 8 billion. I'm breaking another myth here that it pays off to the mining industry. To the mining industry it is not allowed to pay, even by law it is forbidden. Only to eliminate mines were funds, but not for active mines to be clear. That was the idea. In the meantime, of course, a lot has changed, as we talked about here, but mining pensioners still have confidence, even those who have received compensation, that this is not exactly what they fought for, when they signed documents, because they believe that there are such things as acquired rights and that they live in a state of law, which they understand in a clear way: they accept me for work and I know that when I retire, I will get a coal debt. That was their conviction, then it changed. There were different translations here, more, less meaningful or true. I will not argue with the facts, because these are largely facts, but I hope that when this project is addressed to the committee, it will be possible to sit fairly over it and perhaps work out a solution that will satisfy all mining pensioners and arrange all their affairs. As I observe the ruling coalition, Law and Justice, I do not hear such statements from this side: it is impossible, it is impossible, it has no pinning, so even if I take this into account, I hope that, following this example, they will be favorable to our project and that it will be tried, that it will be processed at all, and that it will have an effect on all pensioners. I'd also be happy... The Minister is talking right now, but tomorrow I will see the Minister at the Tripartite Group meeting. The social security of the miners, because we have a lot of things in common despite the differences. I will not say that worldview, because it is not this plane, but when it comes to the functioning of mining, we are certainly in one agreement: mining at this stage must be defended and the rights of the miners must be defended. I think that in parallel you can work in committee and you can look for solutions even within the framework of a programme for the mining sector or our meetings, such as tomorrow in Katowice, so these burning problems concerning pensioners will be solved and the problem of carbon imports will be solved so that there will finally be a green light for green energy, but not at the expense of mines, not at the expense of miners, but by eliminating coal imports. In this place, green energy can develop peacefully, and it can be shown that this energy has a future. Let's finally see it. In conclusion, I would like to say that I welcome this discussion and the understanding of our problems. I'm not here to talk to the Sejm, I'm not here to promote myself, I'm just here to solve the problem so that the Sejm can solve the problem, because I can't solve the problem, I'm just the rapporteur of all those who signed up for the citizens' project. I therefore call once again for this proposal to be sent to the committee and, most importantly, for it to be examined, for which I already thank all mining pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u366	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. High Izbo! The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining, contained in print No 31, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made for this project to be sent to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury. Therefore, it will be necessary to resolve this proposal as a result of the vote and we will proceed with this at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (print No 34). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Janusz Kazimierz Necessary to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For the second time, it is my privilege to speak before the High House on behalf of more than 700 thousand volunteers firefighters and the Legislative Initiative Committee of the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. This matter has been and often has been addressed by volunteer firefighters for many years and has not been successfully dealt with so far. I present to the High Sejm a proposal of over 212 thousand. citizens on the pension allowance expected by volunteer firefighters for years. I think it's not alien to us to say, and I quote, if you save one man, it's like you saved the whole world. Firefighters volunteer to save people in need every day and it is therefore appropriate to establish a special allowance for firefighters' pensions for volunteers who, here, special emphasis, participate in rescue and fire-fighting operations. When they retire, they deserve support from society as a whole for their faithful and self - sacrificing service to others. As at the end of 2018, there were more than 16,200 volunteer firefighters in the country, which comprised almost 700,000. volunteers, including over 50,000. They're people over 50 years old. Nearly 4.5 thousand are included in the national fire escape systems. Volunteer firefighters. The equipment and training of the TSO shall allow for a number of actions. More than 220 000 can participate in these activities. CSR firefighters from 18 to 65 years of age. In addition, we pay particular attention to the training of the successors of the current rescuers, who belong to the youth fire teams, which we have almost 6700, and there are almost 82,000 in them. boys and girls. In order for these people, both older and younger, to be able to act effectively with help and rescue, systematic training and self-improvement by firefighters of rescue volunteers themselves is needed, often at the expense of their own time. We must not forget that most of these people have a family to support, which in this situation is not meaningless. Especially important, as I mentioned, are the entities involved in the structure of the CRSG. Although it has come to the conclusion, and much of the truth is that this system is based on the state budget of the State Fire Service, it is difficult to imagine the existence of this system without voluntary fire services kept by local authorities in principle. For example, it appears from the calculation that one zloty from the state budget entails PLN 7.8 issued by municipal authorities. It is very common that volunteer and rescue firefighters are the first to arrive at the scene, help and rescue those in need, using modern equipment designed for rescue and rescue operations. TSOs, including those outside KSRG, and rescue firefighters must be in special availability, must have, as I have already mentioned, specialist education and efficient modern equipment in order to arrive as soon as possible to the guard and then to the scene. They also exist in CSR sections of rescuers with over-standard training, also equipped with appropriate equipment. There are 150 rescue groups in the country. The data already presented prompts us to reflect on whether a certain form of redress should not be required for those persons who, at the same time as the officers of the State Fire Service, save lives and human property. Firefighters do not expect this, do not expect to be satisfied on an ongoing basis, but if, after moving to a well-deserved rest, they can feel the effects of previous actions. According to my data, the expenditure of the state budget for the implementation of fire protection, comprehensive rescue and civil protection tasks in 2018 amounted to nearly PLN 3 billion, of which 78% These are costs consumed by state rescue units, including by the State Fire Department. Let me remind you that there are over 16,000 volunteer firefighters in the country. and the fire rescue units of the State Fire Department just over 500. In comparison, the direct participation in rescue and fire operations takes over 200,000. volunteers against 30,000. Officers of the State Fire Department. There are two basic questions to be asked here. That is, how many additional officers of the State Fire Department would have to be employed to replace voluntary firefighters? And second question: what is the value of the property saved and protected by the firefighters of the TSOs and the value of their time spent within a year? Here it is proposed that firefighters of rescue workers should be granted an allowance to the pension for at least 10 years' service in the amount, as we propose, of PLN 20 for each documented year during which the insured was directly involved in rescue operations. That's what I'm saying. According to our calculations, this would be a cost within a year within the limit of PLN 50 million. The Legislative Initiative Committee of the Act proposes that the mayor, the mayor of the municipality, the president of the city, competent for the seat of the CSR unit to which he was insured, at the request of the insured person, issue a certificate of compliance with the requirements of the insured person. I would like to point out that such data is owned by the State Fire Department, have county commands, as well as volunteer firefighters themselves. The issue of pension allowances for multi-annual members of TSOs is important from a social point of view, as well as relevant to the expectations of volunteer firefighters. It would be a way of appreciating their efforts by the state authorities. For the sake of clarity, no one is serving at the TSO for money and material benefits. Every volunteer firefighter is aware of the mission he is carrying out, and this mission, as it is said in the Statute, is taken to God's glory, to the people's rescue. Over the years, both the OSPRP Union and the state authorities have focused on material support for CSR, support for the purchase of modern equipment, safe protective uniforms and the implementation of modern technologies. We're grateful for that. But there are new threats on the horizon due to social and demographic changes in our country. Therefore, the challenge is now to support the human factor, to encourage, which is very important, to serve in voluntary firefighters. We can see that reality is changing. More and more people are working outside the residence. Many firefighters went abroad for bread, many work on a delegation. And the requirements of firefighters volunteers are almost like that. Same as our colleagues from the State Fire Department. The addition to the pension would therefore have the nature of compensation for years of service to the public, stress and a number of health-related factors during rescue operations for our firefighters. But it would also be a motivating factor - a well-deserved reward would be met by a firefighter in retirement. This allowance is needed not only for firefighters, it is needed for society. Security can't be converted into money. It's priceless. Years ago, the High Sejm dealt with this issue, but then there were wider requirements. At present, the committee I represent is limited only to the addition to the firefighters of rescue volunteers who can document the relevant activities and the duration of their participation. In a letter to your Marshal of the Sejm, on the basis of the above assumptions, I stated that the total cost of the anticipated financial consequences of the introduction of these regulations was taken into account for prudential reasons, probably in excess of the actual cost. It has been taken into account that the vast majority of volunteer firefighters are men. The expected increase in the number of pensioners among the current members of the TSOs involved in rescue operations has also been demonstrated. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee of the Legislative Initiative's proposal for a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws was caused, among others. the long-term expectation of this group of social firefighters to properly appreciate them, including their positive and needed activities. It has already been, High Sejm, more than a year and a half since the Legislative Initiative Committee submitted a draft of this law. Unfortunately, despite many declarations almost all political options have been done nothing about this. So-called playing on time in this case is not a good way out of this situation. This is not, as I said, a new venture. There have already been a group of Members on this issue, but their initiatives have not been taken into account. Today, this is done by a group of over 212 thousand. citizens supporting the project. I would like to inform the High House that payment of the equivalent will not solve the matter. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At today's meeting I represent as a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, but for almost 60 years I have been a member of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland and for almost 20 years Vice President of the Chief Executive Board. In our view, the Parliament of the last term of office, without any justification, has deprived the link between the allocation of funds to TSOs previously received from the state budget and insurance companies. These funds were put at the disposal of the Chief of State Fire Department. We felt this action as an attempt to nationalise voluntary firefighters and eliminate the Association of Polish TSOs, which next year will celebrate the 100th anniversary of existence. For information, I state that in the former Galicia, in my former Galicia, because I come from this area, that is 145 years of existence. This Decision makes it difficult for TSOs to purchase equipment necessary for rescue and fire-fighting operations to a large extent. For example, it was like this, I don't know how it will be now, that one section of fire hose was decided by the chief of the State Fire Department, and before that it could be arranged within 1 hour or 2 hours in its district. I ask the High Sejm to take a second look at this case and restore the principles that have been positively tested, to the benefit of voluntary fire. At the same time, I would like to thank all the volunteer firefighters, their families and supporters of the guards for their support for our initiative. Again, I stress that this is about the addition to volunteer firefighters participating in rescue and fire-fighting operations. I would like to thank all those who have read this project, leaned on our project and expressed their opinion, regardless of what it was. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, just a few seconds. I would like to express my thanks to the Marshal of the Sejm for bringing the citizens' bill to the session. I ask the High House to refer the bill to committee work and adoption. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I address you with the words of our Pope John Paul II, who in Drohiczyn said years ago to the firefighters: Remember, only the spirit does not go out. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! I assure you that Polish firefighters volunteer work really for an idea, for a beautiful and extremely useful idea. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Don't put out the ghost of the knights of St. Floriana and support the initiative over 212 thousand. citizens. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u368	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Robert Warwas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u369	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, print No 34. The bill concerns the granting of an allowance to persons who, for at least 10 years, were members of a voluntary fire department for a pension of PLN 20 for each documented year during which the insurance was directly involved in rescue operations. The fulfilment by a voluntary fire department member of the said requirements would be confirmed by the issuing of the relevant certificate by the commune's chief, the mayor, the mayor of the town competent for the seat of the voluntary fire department of which he was insured by a member. High Izbo! The amendment to the pension allowance, including the agricultural pension, is important from a social point of view and is expected by the volunteers' guards. Moreover, the granting of this benefit was mentioned in the statement of reasons, it would be an expression of appreciation of their efforts by the state authorities. In the current legal situation, pursuant to Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Fire Protection Act, the members of the voluntary fire department who have participated in rescue operations or fire training organised by the State Fire Department or the municipality, shall receive a cash equivalent. The amount of the equivalent shall be determined by the council of the municipality by a resolution. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 26 (2) (b) 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: 26a, Art. 27a and Article 27a The 28th Fire Protection Act of 24 August 1991 provides for additional powers for voluntary fire-fighting officers respectively. It follows, therefore, that in the current legal state, voluntary fire workers receive certain benefits also in financial terms. On the other hand, the supplementary pension is contrary to the current pension scheme, based on the assumption that the benefit is derived from the contribution paid by the insured person in the form of an insurance premium. It should be noted that participation in rescue operations carried out by voluntary firefighters is not part of the social security scheme's categories of insurance risk, which include, above all, the loss of the possibility of earning income from work due to old age or incapacity to work due to health. The adoption of the concept of monetary benefit for members of the voluntary fire department in the form of an allowance to the pension would also require that the current form of financial compensation granted to persons be covered by the pension contribution. In addition, the wording of the allowance to the pension means that members of the voluntary fire department who do not have or are not receiving a pension will not be able to acquire the right to the allowance in question, even if they are able to prove themselves to be a member of the voluntary fire department for a 10-year period. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law does not indicate the grounds for establishing the subject-matter of the allowance within the overall members of the voluntary fire brigade. In addition, the proposed legislation does not provide any information on the possible rules for the valorisation of this additive. It may also be doubtful that the proposed solution does not provide for the grant of a pension allowance for persons who are entitled to pension from supply systems. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, all bridesmaids and bridesmaids deserve their respect and appreciation for their selfless service to people and their professionalism during fire-rescue operations. The additional recognition of volunteer firefighters is therefore noteworthy, but this project should be clarified. As volunteer firefighters are important public services in our country, he adopted an amendment to the Fire Protection Act at the initiative of the Sejm government in 2019. The aim of the amendment was to extend the tasks to which voluntary fire services could apply for additional support from the State budget. It is worth noting (The Bell) that voluntary firefighters are an important link in the system of providing fire protection to the public. Particular dedication and involvement of those involved in voluntary firefighters should be appreciated, including in financial terms. Nevertheless, the way in which the above request is met requires a thorough analysis. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the draft Print Act No 34 be referred to the committee responsible for further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u370	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Joann Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u371	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club regarding the citizens' draft law amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The citizens' bill provides for the grant of a pension allowance to a person who has been a member of the voluntary fire department for at least 10 years, amounting to PLN 20 for each documented year during which the insured person took direct part in rescue and fire operations. Rescue measures are any action taken to protect life, health, property and the environment, as well as to eliminate causes of fire, natural disaster or other local threat. These tasks are carried out by a voluntary fire department. Volunteering is an additional social activity. It's a 24-hour willingness to help another person. Each volunteer firefighter carries a huge risk of losing his or her health or even his or her life during the fire escape. I would like to remind you that in 2015, when the Civic Platform and PSL were run by governments, a law was introduced to protect non-professional firefighters who suffered health damage during rescue or exercise activities. This law was introduced because the rulers appreciated the heroism of the volunteer firefighter. Granting the pension allowance to non-professional firefighters is in the interest of voluntary firefighters, their families, and the entire society. It's our civic duty, because when we're facing a fire threat or a natural disaster, voluntary firefighters are always on the station and protect the local community from the consequences of these threats in time. God's glory, people's salvation - this slogan on firefighters' banners marked and marked the social role of volunteer service. One could say that this is the most noble motto in society. Being a firefighter is still an extraordinary challenge, it's an honor and duty, it's service to others, continuous self-working and improving your skills. Each time volunteers put their lives at risk to help others, acting in accordance with the principle: one for all, all for one. They are one big family for whom helping one's neighbor is the most important goal. The ancient wise man said: You can enjoy the good and pleasures and live a life in peace or make yourself useful to all men, help and rescue those who need it. I would like to appeal to the PiS Members to draw from the results of the voluntary fire department and its selfless and difficult work an example and strength for the new tasks that voluntary firefighters are waiting for. I would also like to stress that the fire community is hoping to adopt this law. More than 212,000 people testify to this. signatures submitted under the bill. Granting this supplement would also be a response to staff problems in some individuals, including those in the national rescue and fire protection system, and would provide an additional incentive to enter service in the ranks of voluntary firefighters. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this bill and requests that it be referred to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u372	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski to the High House. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Dear Chairman of the Legislative Initiative Committee! Dear bridesmaids and bridesmaids! I have the great honor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Democratic Left Alliance, the Party of the Biedron and the Party together to present to you, honorable bridesmaids and bridesmaids, words of appreciation and thanks for everything you do every day, to save health, life and human property. This voluntary activity today is one of the basic guarantees of the public security system, security. Why is the Left Parliamentary Club in favour of this solution? For we should work on it, seek even better solutions, more transparent and understandable. First of all, we are behind him because since 1995 as a result of the agreement of the State represented by the State Fire Department, local government and voluntary firefighters, there has been a national rescue and fire extinguisher system in Poland. This country has invited volunteers to share responsibility for the public security of citizens. Any participation in rescue operations of volunteers with appropriate authority shall be planned, approved by the State Fire Department, not by the President or the Governor of the Volunteer Fire Department. Please bear in mind that this voluntary activity, as the representative of the PiS said here, emphasizes that it is about the privileges of voluntary fire department members, about the privileges of rescuers who are members of voluntary fire services, so for anyone who is 18 years old but not over 65 years old, has appropriate medical examinations, is trained accordingly by the State Fire Department, which according to the law corresponds, among others. For training volunteers... That's why it's so important that... Since these people are directly involved in state security rescue activities, in the most important events that have taken place in recent years, without voluntary firefighters, it is difficult to imagine the effective operation of the whole system. Therefore, we believe that this kind of compensation in the form of a pension allowance should work. Someone's gonna say, "Well, how?" An exception to volunteers? However, there is a Minister of Sweden, with whom we have worked for many years in the Committee on Social Policy and who knows the solutions of the Polish legal system, which provides for allowances. It is about allowances for every month for soldiers, miners, allowances for those who have been injured, etc., which allowances are introduced into the pension system. Therefore, this will not be an exception. However, there is a need for good will, agreement and determination that this supplement will not be known what it is. After all, during parliamentary work we can set the upper limit of this supplement, as is the case in other laws which define similar allowances. Dear bridesmaids and dear bridesmaids! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the 2018 National Fire Command's data, there were more than 0.5 million events, 30% of which were fires, 62% - local threats. Consider one thing: every three minutes, 31 seconds, there's a fire. Imagine how the State Fire Department itself could function without a national system, without other services. More than one million firefighters with authority are involved in these activities every year. Of course, I'm talking about participating, calculated in this way on the basis of participation in each action. But please note that volunteer firefighters... E.g. such a voluntary fire department in Lubon in Wielkopolska in 2018 took part in the action more than 340 times a year, i.e. it works the same as the State Fire Department. Therefore, in view of all these arguments, I would like to ask (the bell) that this law be addressed to two committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, so that we can work on it in a very substantive way, serving people and helping firefighters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented to the High House by Mrs Urszula Nowogórska. You're welcome. [[Applause]] Beautiful uniform. Beautiful uniform, really. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u375	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Chairman of the Legislative Initiative Committee! Bridesmaids! The bridesmaids! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I have a great honour to present the position of the club on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, print No 34. I am very happy and cordially grateful that at last from the legislative freezer we managed to pull out a bill on pension allowances for voluntary firefighters of PLN 20 for every documented year in which the insured volunteer firefighter took part directly in rescue and fire operations. As you know, voluntary firefighters together with the State Fire Department form two lungs. These two lungs breathe well, and they breathe efficiently and effectively because they can work together under the motto: God for glory, men for salvation. TSOs are an organisation which, thanks to its professionalism and excellent training, is able to interact with all uniform formations. It is able to react professionally and effectively to risks such as floods, fires, accidents, cataclysms, natural disasters. Its members specialize in road, technical, chemical, ecological, water, pre-medical, high altitude operations and many, many others. This formation creates and supports cultural centres and is part of local communities, both culturally and religiously. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids of voluntary firefighters are also professionally capable of securing mass events, and they expressed this by participating in World Youth Day security in Cracow. Exactly. According to the data from the full reporting for 2018 by April 2019, there are 16 155 voluntary firefighters operating on a national scale, bringing together 645 842 members, of which 228 750 bridesmaids and bridesmaids can leave for action with full research and powers in this regard. Volunteer firefighters are a symbol of spirit, devotion, competence, courage, firmness. It's a formation that enjoys the greatest trust in society. I stress: the greatest social trust. Why are they saving us? They save because they do it out of the need of the heart, the inner need to help the needy. They help because they have a sense of responsibility for human life and property. They help because they're not afraid to put their lives and health at risk. They help, because they do not appreciate their private time, expressing heroism and brotherhood - and this is the greatest moral and ethical value for them. The volunteers devote their private time not only to participation in rescue and fire operations, but also to improving their qualifications by taking part in many different training courses. But at that time, too, they keep the combat equipment available to volunteer firefighters in full readiness. They do not take any financial gratification for these activities. That is why I think this: let us thank them, appreciating their service, and let us accept this civic project that we are discussing today. Let us adopt a project that will help motivate both those who are serving today and those who will be members of the voluntary fire department in the future. Let us reach out to them and thank them for their service. The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15 recommends and fully supports the citizens' bill, because it is not only fair, but also an expression of respect and a bow towards those citizens who signed under this project. High Izbo! Dear Marshal! I wear the uniform I'm wearing today with great pride and respect. I also know that there are many Members in this Chamber and many Members who are either sympathizers or members of voluntary firefighters. And I deeply believe, trust and hope that, above all divisions, we will undertake further work on this project and show that it is an expression of our respect and thanks to all those who function and serve in voluntary firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u376	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to inform the High House that 27 Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition, will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u377	Dear Marshal! Minister! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee! High Izbo! I fully share the views of the applicants as set out in the justification for this fair and socially expected draft law. The role of voluntary firefighters in the security system is not discussed at all, but also in the cultural sense of the environment. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed legislative solution is not just an appreciation of the members of the voluntary fire brigade. This may also constitute an incentive to participate in the activities of the guards. However, I believe that the allowance should be determined not by quota, but by percentage in relation to e.g. up to the minimum wage. It would be a reward for active firefighters, and at the same time a guarantee that this supplement would remain constant and be real and not symbolic at the time of acquisition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the government about the real intentions of today's bill. Proposals submitted in the citizens' bill, under which more than 212 thousand have been signed. Citizens, they are absolutely right. It is proposed that voluntary firefighters should be entitled to a pension of PLN 20 for each year of documented service during which firefighters were directly involved in rescue operations. However, the citizen's party has legitimate concerns about the actual intentions of the government party. I would therefore like to ask what the real intentions are with regard to this supplement, the financial support of volunteer firefighters. Will you vote in favour of this bill and proceed so that it is adopted as soon as possible, or will you freeze it in the committee for months, as was the case in the last term of the Sejm? This is a very simple question and I would like to hear the answer, because all the volunteer firefighters (the bell) are waiting for this simple answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u380	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I strongly support the citizens' bill introducing an addition to the pension for volunteer firefighters. For many years, I have been working with volunteer firefighters, and I know how much they have to do. These tasks are increasing. Almost every year they are different, because safety is not only about putting out fires, but also about saving people in different situations, it's about road accidents, etc. Volunteer firefighters, including volunteer firefighters, carry out these tasks with great dedication and great responsibility. Many of them work in the national rescue system. They work on very modern equipment that they need to know. Every volunteer firefighter needs to train himself (the bell), otherwise he can't handle these difficult tasks. So let's make this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u382	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Marek Rząsa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u383	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the Volunteer Firefighters! Volunteer firefighters are sacrifice and courage, self - sacrificing, serving other people. It is the bridesmaids and bridesmaids who often risk their lives and health by saving our possessions, our lives and our loved ones. I cordially greet you all, especially the volunteers from Podkarpacie headed by my friend Janusz. This law should finally be adopted, and I therefore call for it to be adopted urgently. Fast legislation and the adoption of the law are not only to make amends to the legitimate demands of volunteer firefighters, but also to test the credibility of this party of the Parliament, it is a pity that today is so empty. Many of you, colleagues from PiS, publicly declare your membership to the CSR, many of you often appear in a full gala uniform - although I rarely see you in these combat uniforms - you create round-the-clock parliamentary teams, often fighting for the highest positions in them... Mr President, the question is: ... You talk beautifully about firefighters at the celebrations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have a unique opportunity today to direct this project quickly. You have experience in this. Turn your words into action. For God's sake, for men's sake! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Let me remind you that we're at the point of asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fellow Members! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! For the rest of her life, my grandmother was getting an allowance for her salary, so-called. railroad - and it was good. My mom, my aunts get a sybian supplement - and it's good. I wonder why you don't want to add 20 zlotys to the firefighters for one year's work - because it's good. These are the people who guard our property, our lives, our health. Maybe he won't knock over your government's muzzle bill. That's too bad. But I am convinced, and I hope that your government will overwhelm the volunteer firefighters if you do not accept this bill. I wish you all that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u386	Thank you, sir. However, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at least this question mark at the end bet, because we are at the point: questions. Okay? Mr Jan Łopata, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The fire protection system in Poland is based, as we know, on two pillars. This is the State Fire Department, acting on the basis of its law, and of course voluntary firefighters, acting under the August 1991 Fire Protection Act. This is a system that is very efficient, very efficient, and this is a system that other countries envy. Yes, they are jealous, trying to adapt their systems to the Polish fire protection system. Dear Minister, Dear Government! This supplement, which we are asking for here, is only a symbolic thank-you, but very important - important from a moral point of view, I also think it is important from a financial point of view. This question has already come out of the President's mouth, and I wanted to emphasise it or (The bell) highlight it and ask for an answer. Well, if you were to count the work of pals of volunteers full-time at the State Fire Department, what millions, how many hundreds of millions would it be necessary to spend from the state budget to secure Poland in the field of fire protection? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo, sir!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Friends of firemen, not ghosts. Well, 7 June 2017 was the first reading of this project in the Sejm, the same arguments fell, the same discussion, the same reservations. Today we repeat this cabaret. I said, what's with the cabaret? The question arises: Minister, is there a will to pass... Mr President, is it the will to adopt this project or not? What are your guidelines? Because you ran over this project, criticized that it wasn't good for firemen to get their money, and on the other hand, we're gonna put him on the committee. We're gonna put him on the board for what? So he can lie down for four years? Then you said, "You were 8 years old." And now we say, "You were four." So? And you're still lying? How many pictures have you taken against the banner? We must definitely say: Either we want to announce it, or we don't want to, or we accept firemen (the bell) in our care, or we want you to take care of it. You definitely have to make decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u390	Thank you very much, sir, but there is no motion for rejection, so we are working on this project. Yes, sir, we're working. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am asking the representative of the legislative initiative. Mr President, during the debate that took place on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, Mr Robert Warwas spoke about the privileges of volunteer firefighters. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the legislative initiative. Cash equivalent for participation in rescue operations, paid by the municipality, not by the State, from the municipality's resources, further: one-off compensation for damage to health, damage to property, partial or total incapacity to work. Is it a privilege, or is it the standard of a democratic state, which, as it invites to participate in rescue operations, it also takes care later of the consequences of possible events? We introduced it (the bell) in previous terms, among others. at the request of the parliamentary fire team. Thank you. I would ask you to answer: Are these privileges, or is this a normal procedure that is legally binding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u392	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The bridesmaids and the firemen's bridesmaids! I hope that if the Polish Sejm adopts this bill, we will all be firefighters as well. I hope so, because four years of this project wasn't processed. On the other hand, I think we have to consider one thing: that the role of the voluntary fire department and the role of these people is very important. It is not only a matter of security, but it is also a matter of, in short, those local communities in the countryside, in small towns. These are simply people who build these local communities, and even for this reason they deserve an addition to this hard work and to retirement. Therefore, my question is: Did the Polish government have time to actually analyse what number of people (the bell) is involved in this matter and what are the real costs if we adopted such a law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and the firemen's bridesmaids! Responsibility for Polish security, responsibility for our fate is a responsibility in which voluntary firefighters have a central place. It's a chance that we can all feel much safer. National security systems without the possibility of using this support provided by the voluntary fire department could do much less to fulfil their statutory and social responsibilities. So I ask the question: Are we dealing with a real desire to help this environment, which for years has been absolutely and sacrificially saving people's lives and is an integral part of thinking about Polish security? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Chief Chief of State Fire Department! Dear bridesmaids and bridesmaids! This is a time and perhaps a place to thank you for this daily work, for this daily service in which you put your health and your life at risk, taking care of our safety. Today I ask myself in this Chamber how much life costs, the health of those who put them at risk on a daily basis, in relation to the supplement that has been written in the bill. Minister! I have a question for you: How do you value this work, this service? Isn't it worth it for those firefighters who defend our safety every day to pay such a modest allowance? I think we've all acted and acted so far in this room to ensure security over division. We never had a difference in safety, we never had a difference when we had to equip volunteer firefighters with additional equipment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, let's step up and take the next step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear people have come to this part of the debate! I believe that as a hard social service for health care, for participation in human rescue operations, inventory and other possessions, for responding to natural situations regardless of the time of the day... Night, Christmas is no limit for volunteer firefighters. Always on the signal with a danger of your own - I stress: your own - life, health brings help. This is a huge sacrifice and social service on their part, which should finally be rewarded by the state. I believe that as such an exceptional action for the state, Poles and Poles, firefighters, rescuers should be covered by the proposed insurance. Does the government intend and what other forms of assistance to this social group as a gratification (the bell) for their service? Does the government intend to strengthen the benefits to volunteer firefighters, those that are borne by local authorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! 700,000. rescue firefighters are a unique team of people who, at the expense of their family life, provide assistance and support to those in need. Like millions of other Poles, I have experienced this support from volunteer firefighters, for which I thank them very warmly. I'm addressing volunteer firefighters from Wilkowice County. 20 PLN supplement to the pension for each year of participation in rescue operations is actually not much, looking at what you are doing, especially since you are entitled to at least 10 years of service. It's just you guys, lovely firefighters, you deserve it. I ask the government, the Minister, with the question: Will you support this project in this shape, or will you add some more gold to our volunteer firefighters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u402	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We all give peans here in honor of volunteer firefighters, and you would have to ask yourself a simple question: Why don't you give them that money? Somebody give me one argument why we shouldn't give them that money. They protect life, wealth, they put their health at risk, they're in action, they're mobile, just like the guard, there's a balanced budget, we can afford to give 2 billion to public television. Then let's ask ourselves why we shouldn't give these firemen. Because I don't understand. I don't have an explanation. The High House, which has over 400 billion budget, a government that says that this budget is being spent rationally. We're not gonna find how many hundred million zlotys to give these firefighters? Answer me the question: What is one reason (the bell) why we should not give this money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u404	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is, do we need volunteer firefighters or do we need them in the national fire escape system? They're here. We all say that we need them to play a very important role in this system. Therefore, the argument that the current pension system because of its formation does not allow us to find a solution to include this supplement in firefighters' pensions is not a serious argument. I think we can find a number of different solutions. Recently, we have had examples of many initiatives, at least a 13th pension. She wasn't directly entered into the system either, and yet we passed it. We think we should do it. That's 200,000. volunteers, as a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee said, 4800 units, which are in this system, and of course, which is not negligible, this is civil society. One of the limitations in Poland's development, as indicated by the social diagnosis, is civil society. And here we have a non-governmental organization (the bell) that is active, they want to act, so we should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u406	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Applicants! The citizens' bill amending the Social Insurance Fund Act and some other laws is a project concerning direct voluntary firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids. Ladies and gentlemen! Many voluntary fire-fighting units are in the national fire-fighting system, which is an integral part of the internal security of the State. This includes saving lives, health, property, the environment, forecasting, identifying and combating fires, natural disasters and other local threats. Ladies and gentlemen, this addition to bridesmaids and bridesmaids is simply due. Questions: Will the government of the Republic of Poland not disturb and provide for support in the adoption of the law itself? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the largest parliamentary club in the Polish Parliament support him so that the bridesmaids and bridesmaids can receive their allowances as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u409	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I have a question for you about the civil project that you're looking for. Let me just remind you that it's been almost three years in the Seym. Over 210,000 signed the project during the previous term of office. persons. Volunteer firefighters operate mainly in rural environments and small cities. They are an important link in the fight against fires, preventative and eliminate local threats. They also fight the effects of natural cataclysms. And, of course, the question that has already been raised here: Is the proposal by the government party and the majority of the Parliament of Law and Justice to direct the project to further work in committee a desire to really implement this law, or is it merely a re-trial of freezing in the committee of this project, as it was in the previous term of office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u410	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of you has already talked about how important firefighters are in our lives, for all of us, residents of Poland when it comes to helping. Is this aid to be measured only by new cars, which Mr Zielinski has not long since given politically to those individuals who favored him, the new regiments that build local governments, trainings, new equipment, or honoring the work of firefighters who retire and really have nothing of this voluntary work? Let us remember that in every municipality, in every village, the volunteer firefighters lead the primaries. It is the largest social organization, NGOs in Poland. My question is this: Will the governing party freeze this project for the next months (the bell), we will process it for 4 years and move it back to the next term of office, or will we proceed over it according to the mode that can be adopted, as in the case of 2 billion for television? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u412	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the volunteer fire department! I'm lucky to live near a volunteer fire department. There's practically no day that I don't hear a siren calling my friends from the volunteer fire department to intervene. There were over 260 interventions in this unit alone last year. Even as a councilman of the Sejmik Mazowiecki Voivodeship, I managed to provide financial support, thanks to which it was possible to purchase specialized equipment. But the equipment itself, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing without people who can handle it. It's these people that make us feel safer. It is extremely important that at least in this way we can satisfy their sacrifice. I have a question at the same time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask the applicant's representative: How has the number of people willing to join the CSR team in Poland changed over the past few years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u414	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your marshal asked me to limit myself to questions, so I'll limit myself to those questions. What's the difference between a firefighter's job as a volunteer and a professional firefighter. The fact that a volunteer firefighter does it free of charge does it in his spare time. He's taking his social time to save our lives, our possessions. And like everyone in this Chamber who is speaking, also the government side, emphasizes: the TSO is an essential link in the national rescue system. Is the 20 PLN pension allowance much or little? This is a symbolic addition. This project came in four years ago, so I think we should think of a higher symbolic supplement and raise it in the course of work in committees above 20 zlotys. Did the project have to lie down for four years (the bell) and wait for the High House to take care of it? He didn't have to. Can this project be adopted as proposed this year? Yes, you can. It's enough for political will. TSOs are often people who are the biggest socialists in their localities. We all understand that, Member. Thank you very much. Not more than two weeks ago, I was participating in the award of the TSO in my district... Madame, I am so sorry, you have exceeded your time. Madam, you have already asked questions. ...social title of the year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not understand the reservations of the representative of the PiS regarding the possibility of passing this law. I'm asking for an answer. Why the fire department... I'll only use two arguments. Well, every firefighter, volunteer, volunteer is an amazing pattern for young people, and this pattern is very much needed. So that they don't kill a 14-year-old boy who doesn't kill a 17-year-old, they have to have a pattern that someone walks and puts their lives in jeopardy, saves someone's life selflessly. He saves because he has it in his heart. That's the answer I heard today. And there's a second reason, also very serious. Guards are increasing our security. We're 60,000 short. Doctors. I don't know if any of you survived a car accident in which firemen didn't just cut the plates, they didn't just take people out. I've seen those who carried comfort, psychological comfort, blanket cover. Thank you for that. Thank you (the bell) on behalf of my young volunteers who are paying attention. I believe they'll be copycats, that they'll follow in these footsteps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u418	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Bridesmaids, Bridesmaids, Firefighters Brothers! Our personal experiences, but also our research, indicate that there are always the first companions of voluntary firefighters on the scene of unfortunate accidents and incidents. They help those who need this help most at a given time, always at risk of health and life. Therefore, I am pleased that today, thanks to this bill, which provides a supplement to the pension for the firefighter's friends participating in the rescue and fire fighting, we will be able to thank you, dear fellows, for your hard work and your work. And my question is, why shouldn't we admit it? That's a question for the government. Why should we not grant an allowance, which is small, since 3 hours earlier we voted on the bill (the bell) which grants the Polish Television 2 billion PLN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u420	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. I can't see. I'm coming. Straight from the committee meeting. Well, here you go. We're all really waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know why a volunteer firefighter project spent so much time in a seym freezer. After all, this project concerns those who put their lives and health at risk in order to save lives, health, and property of others. Firefighters volunteer to carry out a social mission and a very dangerous mission. We all know that. Some time ago, as part of the promised humility and moderation, Prime Minister Szydło screamed at us: this money belonged to them. Let me remind you, she spoke about her ministers, the vice-ministers who took the so-called. It's a double salary. I would like him to be among the Members of the Law and Justice, one who will come and say: this money is simply due to firefighters. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this money to the firefighters, this supplement is simply due to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u422	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to thank the Committee, which is made up of the members of the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of Firefighters, this citizens' initiative, so that the project, which is to be a pension supplement, which includes the rules for granting it, can be proceded. Today, for a good cause, we do not discuss or grant this supplement. Rather, we are discussing how to do this so that this great movement, which is a unique achievement of our society as a whole, has been functioning in our society for years, has a very important role in security, and the people who work in it, are properly valued to respect their efforts. I hope (the bell) that we will succeed and that this project will be adopted. That's what I'm thinking, we all wish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Each of us, as we sit here, is aware of the role, the importance of voluntary firefighters' formations. The proof of this is the membership of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - which includes more than 100 Members. The Law and Justice Government is also aware of their role, and therefore this support compared to the previous term was much greater: 5 000. - funding for the unit. Also for the purchase of fire-fighting and fire-fighting equipment went far more than in previous years. But I have a question for the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Janusz Necessary. Have such initiatives ever been presented in Parliament? You were Senator of the Democratic Left Alliance in 2001 and 2005. Were such proposals also presented at that time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Firefighters! I count on the will to adopt this civil project on the fireman's allowance, which is on duty on Christmas, Friday or Sunday. They're on the front line when it comes to life accidents, random accidents, property accidents. Their bill simply belongs to them in a human way. Minister, Prime Minister, courage. Respect for your work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mrs Skowrońska, because you were not in the process of reading because of your presence at the committee meeting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u429	Marshal, thank you very much. The meeting of the Health Committee is underway. We talked about important things, but today in the hall and in the gallery... I cordially greet all the representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee. I have one appeal: let's not say we give cars because that's the need. These cars aren't any firefighter from the volunteer fire department. We didn't give them. We set them up to help in the country, the citizens. 31 thousand. Officers of the State Fire Department and the crowd - 700,000. - volunteers. They deserve it. It's not an illusion. It's a committee procedure. In this committee, we should lean on all the proposals that come from this project, which has signed 250,000. persons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For years, out of respect. I only have one roll call. It's about respect for people who risk their lives, helping state fire officers who risk... Thank you, Member. ...realize it, secure citizens' health and lives. They just deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u430	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer questions on behalf of the government. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! Dear bridesmaids! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to greet all of our volunteers and wish them the best of luck on behalf of our ministry, our government, and thank you for your service, for your efforts, for what you are doing for our country, for the fire protection systems, and for what you are doing for all our citizens. Thank you so much for all this. I cordially greet you and wish all your dreams come true this coming year. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a civic project. Of course, every civic project, a project that is a continuation, is from the previous term of office, should be treated with respect, with attention. We also declare this work on this project from the government, although - as I said - this project is still from the previous term of the Sejm. The project is simple but complicated when it comes to implementation. You could ask yourself a question in this room... That is also a question for your Members who are sitting in this Chamber. After all, such projects were in the 6th term of the Sejm and the 7th term of the Sejm - then the government was in the coalition of PO-PSL - and in the last term. In VII there was also PiS and in VI - PiS. And in the fifth term. And there was a project in the fifth term. So these projects were here. Member, please... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: So I think it was. The Left also had the opportunity to pass this. But she didn't have the financial means. I will remind you that for many, many years Mr Waldemar Pawlak has been head of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland. I don't think that name needs to be reminded in this room because we know who he is. If the project was so simple, why was it not adopted in earlier years? That's the first question to all of us. As we form a fire team, there are usually hundreds of Members above the divisions in this team. This is a question for all of us who have been sitting in Parliament for many years: Why have all these terms not been worked out through the fire team? Let us answer that question ourselves. The question is fundamental. If we're saying... Today we do not judge the activities of voluntary firefighters. They're great, they work, they're needed in the fire escape system. The question is a little different. Today I stand before you - the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Here should be a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, because he is the one under the State Fire Department and in some way a voluntary fire department. If we were going in that direction, then... But it's not our fault! But don't disturb me. You have such a tendency that... Ladies and gentlemen, please, really, let's listen to the Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: You've been head of the fire team all these years, you could have done it. You've been here all these years, two terms, you were president of the parliamentary fire team. Oh, Mrs. Krystyna! You could've done it, my fellow Member. You didn't, and today you're yelling at me, not for the first time, because that's what you tend to do when it comes to talking. If we really want to help firefighters, let's think about whether it's in the pension system that I represent, which is why I'm standing before you or in another system. It's about what you're saying, the role of volunteer firefighters in the fire system. In the project... I'll tell you the facts. We have a project ahead of us. If we assume what you're giving because we assume there's 650,000. Volunteer firefighters, I accept, from the honourable Member, that you have said... 750. ...as far as rescuers are concerned. Mr. Speaker! Don't worry, I'll talk about it right away, sir. I'm not the first time in this Seym, so I know perfectly well all the years we've been in, we've talked about firefighters. If we're talking about $250,000. people who are directly involved in rescue operations, and I have in the civil project a number of volunteer firefighters who are presented, in terms of calculations, so that's how it works: 6,000. firefighters with acquired pension rights, to which this would apply, 16 thousand. Volunteer firefighters who acquire pension rights are together 22,000. persons. We want to add up to $22,000.? For $250,000. Firefighters who take part? I don't think so. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Criteria, there's retirement age. I'm giving you the data that's on the project. It's a shame you didn't get to know the project because we're talking about the project. That's the first thing. The amount of PLN 52 million comes out of this project. If we put in what I'm talking about, that is. Two hundred and twenty-four thousand. and the criteria met, we no longer know what the final sum will be. But for me, the fundamental question is: If this is not done in the retirement system for so many years, let's look for another way to support volunteer firefighters... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Speaker! Don't disturb me. Why are you bothering me? Just listen to me a little bit. We're responding. I want you to answer questions, not ask questions. Mr President, you had time to ask questions, you could have taken part in the debate. There'll be time for committee interviews, committee work. Please don't disturb me. Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: To conclude: If we want to help firefighters, we need to consider whether we are going into the pension system, what is proposed or in another system. If we are talking about other problems concerning the recruitment of young people to voluntary firefighters, it is also a question of whether it is a pension system or whether it is a different system. If such a discussion is, also through a fire team, then of course we are open to it. Today, with the records that are in this civic project, with the fact that, so to speak, an indeterminate number of possible participants, it would be difficult to accept the draft in this version. But I understand that it is the decision of all the clubs to continue their work in Parliament, in the Parliamentary committees and in the Parliamentary committees on these matters that you will also bend over. You could ask more questions that arise from the project itself, because we also have issues that concern... You were talking about that, too, but we could... My colleagues at the club talked about this, about the whole system of support for voluntary firefighters, about the funds we transferred to the equipment, to modernization: over 130 million last year for equipment, a new project on support of 5,000. zł for volunteer firefighters. These are all the actions we've taken, and we can talk about these things too. Please, I think it's about all of us to wonder whether to go into a pension system that is difficult to count, to check, to control, etc. That, I think, is a discussion on the committee. Of course, the government's position on this project is not yet in place. We will prepare this position, but we also declare our participation in the work of the committee to which the project will be addressed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u432	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to invite the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Janusz Kazimierz Necessary to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start a different way. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken. Whether he was positive or negative. Thank you for this vote and I wish you all a happy New Year. Healthy first. And safe. So that in this new year, 2020, you can think about the volunteer firefighters. [[Applause]] And now I'm going to try to answer those questions that I can answer. I'm not an alpha or an omega, I don't have everything ready right away. I see a subcarpathian voivode in the courtroom. Believe me, when you were a voivode, it was an example of cooperation with volunteers. I am very grateful to you. [[Applause]] For what you did. And there were no prejudices and no political options involved. On the one hand, he was a representative of the administrative authority, and on the other hand he was a volunteer. Thank you again. There was a question about the dependency of the allowance on the contribution. How does this apply to the 13th, 14th retirement or to the nationalisation of OFE? There's a question. I'm not an economist, but it wouldn't hurt to ask. I'm not against retirement on the 13th or 14th, I'll take it myself. But this is a very similar situation. Next thing you know, it's the basis for calculating this, the number of firefighters. On the basis of the system in force, these calculations have been made by TSOs. This is almost every year some kind of updating. And one such basic remark. I'll say I'm a little sorry, I'm a longtime firefighter with experience, I work better or worse, but there's a Posel Firefighter's Team. Someone here told you about this. Who knows if it isn't Mr Warecha. It's nice to see a fellow countryman on the bench. Mr. Speaker! If this team worked, there wouldn't be as many people here as there are. [[Applause]] It would be enough for this team to work. We're here now, the case stands here and now. I am not defending Mr Skowronska, I am talking about facts. The facts are what they are. There was talk of a percentage supplement. There you go, we're willing to bend over and over it, it doesn't have to be a ready accessory. We agree on any proposal if it is for the benefit of volunteer firefighters. Now there's this digression again. I wouldn't like to - I don't think anyone wants it, I don't think you want it either - that volunteer firefighters are often the background during the election campaign. [[Applause]] Yeah, it was. I'm sorry, but the high authorities of our state had a background in the form of volunteer firefighters in union uniforms as well. I repeat, in union uniforms. This is very important. That's not cool. But since that's the case, let's be effective, we need to help these firemen. How many billion zlotys would this country cost if there were no volunteers? I don't know, I can't answer that question today. You have to count it. I think it's a lot that many billion zlotys. This is about compensation for firefighters. The equivalent is paid first and foremost not by the State, but by the municipalities. And it's not a privilege. It's not a privilege, it's just a payback for wasting your time at work, sometimes for a cut-off. This is simply due in accordance with the applicable law. That's all, the whole philosophy. There was also talk of saving lives, health, how much it costs and how it looks. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can't value the health and life of the rescued people. I already said in my first speech that it was priceless. I'm addressing your Chief General. It would be good if the General Command of the State Fire Service was a co-sharer in the work on the project in question, because we work together for the same cause. We help each other, we work together to defend human property and life. Have there been such initiatives before? Yes, they were, Mr Warzecha, and they looked different. I assure you, sir - I apologize for this gesture - that they never made it to the Senate, not during my term of office. They're stuck in the Seym. So if that's what happened, it's in this facility. I have nothing to accuse myself of, and this ad personam, I think, was unnecessary. It's so simple. There was a fire team meeting yesterday. I don't know where, but it was. Right here, right? So, ladies and gentlemen? The main board, its president - and I was in Warsaw yesterday, since yesterday I was - did not receive an invitation. Shame on you! We didn't get an invitation. If anyone says we've been received, it's not true. Where's the chairman? And how you can say things around here. The representative of the TSO was. It's about a relationship. Who? He wasn't... I know some of you can't go through the throat with the word "relationship," but you have to. Our relationship is 100 years old. It's not a communist relationship, it's a relationship that's 100 years old. Thank you very much again. Mrs. Marshal! Thank you personally for doing this reading. And once again, I ask that you take all steps so that this law can be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u434	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' bill to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy for consideration on the amendment of the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in print No. 34 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. However, during the discussion, a request was made to refer the project to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't see. No one's checking in. Therefore, I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. To make the first statement, I invite Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u435	High Izbo! We have an important event ahead of us. The next Sunday will be the 28th final of the Grand Orchestra of Christmas Help. As a Polish woman, I am proud that like millions of other citizens and citizens every year I try to support her and participate in events organized by Jurek Owsiak related to her grand finale. For most of us it is clear how important this initiative is and how important it means to the health of Poles and Poles. According to public opinion polls, the vast majority of the population believe that the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid is something we could boast about outside Poland. Among the words most often associated with the great orchestra were: sensitivity, honesty, credibility, society and enthusiasm. Every tenth citizen, or citizen, of our country was a volunteer or volunteer at winter fundraisers. However, it cannot be overlooked that from year to year a wave of heir to the orchestra and its creator is growing, that they are being attacked on an increasing scale by conservative, extreme and nationalist environments. This hat and organized hate campaign, which has persisted for several years in Polish politics, were factors that led to the tragedy of a year ago. Her anniversary is next week, January 13th. I will remind you that President Adamowicz's killer immediately after the assassination shouted political slogans against the judiciary and the PO. The fact that he did his deed at a crucial moment during the finale of the great orchestra was certainly also a kind of manifestation. This blow to the heart had a symbolic expression because it was done at the climax of this annual unity of our society, when over the divisions we shared in the work of helping the needy, at the moment of sensitivity and mutual sympathy. The extreme environments consider themselves their enemy to anyone who connects people, because the fuel of political extremism is hatred. Recalling this, I wanted to appeal to all political circles in Poland to support the orchestra with words and deeds, and that no political force in Poland would ever speak hate for the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help again. Let the orchestra play until the end of the world and one day longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u436	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm established the year 2020 as the year of St. John Paul II. 18 May 2020 we will celebrate the century of the birth of Charles Wojtyla, the Holy Father of John Paul II. He strongly claimed the right of our homeland to freedom among the peoples of Europe. During the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland in 1979, the process of leaving communism and rebuilding relations in a divided Europe began. For our nation, the pontificate of the Polish Pope has a special significance, all the more so since he spoke loudly and unambiguously about the painful experiences of life in the era of fascism and communism in international forums. No one then dared to deny the historical truth. John Paul II taught that no community can survive without true solidarity, but also solidarity cannot exist without love. In a society often lost in agnosticism and individualism, with bitter consequences of selfishness and violence, Jews and Christians are guardians and witnesses of the ethics defined by the Ten Commandments, whose conduct allows man to find the truth about himself and to preach freedom, and above all to care for the value of man. How bitterly in the context of the words expressed by John Paul II are the current events related to the celebrations of the 5th World Holocaust Forum, which will take place in Jerusalem on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, where the voice of Polish President Andrzej Duda will be lacking, who, as a representative of the Polish collective memory, has a special right to preach the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, including the Polish Jews, citizens of the Republic of Poland. We are witnessing the lying of the most painful pages of history of the 20th century, and on behalf of the victims of totalitarianism today in the Seym we must protest against, as the Israeli ambassador in Poland clearly stated, trading history and fighting for the truth of that time. Trying to shift responsibility for the events of World War II to Poland, rejecting its contribution to the fight against two totalitarianisms and blurring responsibility for the deliberate and programmed conduct of war activities and occupations in our country, placing Poles responsible for concentration camps built and functioning at the order of the occupier must meet with our strong opposition at the global forum. Denying the participation of the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda in another's narrative bent to the present times and political and commercial interests is the only and right way to plead for historical truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On January 6, this year, a great tragedy occurred in my hometown. In hospice pw. The Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary was caused by a fire, which resulted in the death of four people, and 22 were injured. It is a very sad event for Chojnice, residents of the county, but especially for families of victims and victims. In such sad and tragic situations, we can be sympathetic in pain and prayer with loved ones who have lost their lives. It was no different on January 6 in Chojnice. Fr. Thank you. Jacek Dawidowski, parish priest of St. The cuts of St. John the Baptist, celebrated a special Mass of St. in the intention of the victims, in whom the inhabitants of Chojnice participated numerously, praying for the souls of the dead. This quality of Christian sensitivity is what each of us can give from ourselves. From this point on, as a Member of the Chojnice Land, I offer my sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of all the tragically dead as a result of the hospice fire. I would also like to thank the services for a very efficient rescue effort. In a special way, I would like to thank two police officers from the Chojnice County Police Department who were near the hospice as the first to arrive and rescue the sick from the burning building, endangering their health and life. I would like to thank all the firefighters who were involved in extinguishing the building and evacuate the wounded. Thank you very much to the emergency services from hospitals in Chojnice and Człuchów, doctors and staff of both institutions for the care of the victims. I thank the residents of Chojnice and the village of Chojnice for their solidarity with the families of the tragically dead. Give eternal rest to the dead, O Lord, and let eternal light shine to them forever. Amen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u441	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On 22 January marks the 157th anniversary of the outbreak of the last Polish independence rally in the 19th century, which was the January uprising. Being in the High Chamber, a representative of the powiats forming the so-called. In this place, I would like to remind you of the blood tribute paid by the insurgents to the insurgents fighting for our independence with the Russian assassin in this area. Of the hundreds of battles and battles that were fought in the lands of the Congress Kingdom in 1863 and 1864, much took place in the sub-Warsaw forests, cities and villages. It is enough to mention such places as Piaseczno, Salomea, Młochów, Grodzisk, Milanówek, Kampinos, Radzymin, Marki, Michałów, Love, and from the closest to me geographically and emotionally Elm, Glinianka, Ruda and Otwock Mała. We must remember the commanders of the January Uprising, who acted in these areas, and who were colonel. Siemomysł Kuczyk, Major Józef Jankowski, Marcin Borelowski, Ignacy Mystkowki, Major Adam Zieliński and many others. In the history of pow. Otwocki especially signed up for colonel. Kuczyk, whose unit of about 300 soldiers in the first months of 1863 passed the fighting route from then district Stanisławów, through Kałuszyn, Satowicz, to fight victorious battles with the Russians in the areas where I grew up, first in the district of Wiązowna in the area of the village of Glinka, now Klinianka, and then at Karczew in Otwock Mały. From there, the colonel's troops crossed the Vistula. The memory of these Polish heroes is still cultivated in the areas of Podwarszawskie villages in the form of annual Masses, appeals of the fallen or, especially in recent years, staged reconstructing battles from the January Uprising. However, in order not to forget the lesson of the January Uprising, it should also be reminded of the Seymary. Without historical memory and lessons learned from it, the Polish future, like the January Uprising, does not have to go well. Let us remember that in those days, as today, not everyone supported the independence aspirations of Poles, and there were also traitors like Count Alexander Wielopolski, who openly cooperated with the Russian assassin in suppressing the Polish fight. At this point it is enough to recall his shameful action, which was carried out at the beginning of 1863 and which severely weakened the morale of the Polish soldier. These facts today - at the time of modernization of Poland by the government of the United Right and the aggression with which we meet the reforms implemented by us, including unfortunately also in the form of seeking foreign support by their opponents - we should remember. Polish heroes did not lose their wealth, their health, and often gave their lives so that today free Poland wasted the opportunity for the greatness that history gave her. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u442	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u443	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Australia is on fire. Since September last year almost 6 million hectares of forest have been burned. This is almost as much as the area of Lithuania and 1/5 of Poland. That's six times the amount that burned in the Amazon fires last year. The death of 28 people has already been confirmed. And dozens of people are missing. We also don't know how long he'll die prematurely because of heat or smog. 0.5 billion animals died. In front of us, species such as animals are dying. Koala bear. But it's not over yet. Because Australia is still on fire. Is there anything we can do about it? We can. We can arrange humanitarian and medical assistance. We can help put out fires. We can help people evacuate. We can help the Poles and Poles return to the country. I call on the government to do whatever it takes to make it happen. These people and these animals need to be helped. But it's not over. The question remains what preventive action we can take. How can such tragedies not happen in the future? To know how to make things right, you need to know the real reason. Therefore, the key question is why Australia is on fire. Why is it burning? There's an answer. Because there have been heat and droughts for many years. But I'm still asking. Why have droughts and heats been on for many years? Because the world's climate is warming up. Why is the world warming up? Since the end of the 19th century, we have been burning coal, oil and gas, and the resulting carbon dioxide accumulates in the atmosphere and produces a greenhouse effect. We are the co-responsible for the tragedy that is about to happen in Australia. Those are difficult words, but true. And it is we who must repair the damage and prevent the fires from engulfing the earth. The solution for the future is only one thing: get away from burning coal. There's no other solution. And we all know that already. Now is not the time for diwags, only time is already for action. I therefore ask Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Kurtyka to take urgent action to change our country's energy policy and to base it on renewable energy sources. We can't avoid responsibility. We're Australia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! My statement concerns an appeal which was sent by the mayor of Śrem, Mr Adam Lewandowski to parliamentarians in the context of the fight for the disposal of illegal waste collected in the area of the village of Pyszyca, the municipality of Śrem in Wielkopolska. For many years, people have been facing the consequences of incorrect waste management by an unfair entrepreneur. Pursuant to the Law of 19 July 2019 on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities and certain other laws, the Waste Act of 14 December 2012 was amended. By adding the provision in Article 2 of the Law cited above. 26a Competent authorities have been given competence to take action to dispose of and manage waste where it is necessary to dispose of waste without delay due to a risk to human life or to human health or the environment. This provision entered into force on 6 September 2019. At the same time, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management announced on 25 September 2019 the selection of applications for the priority programme: Disposal of waste. This programme also covers the cases referred to precisely in this appeal, i.e. abandoned landfill in the village of Pyszyca. Applications under the programme may be submitted by 18 December 2020. However, the eligible costs concern only hazardous waste. On the other hand, it is worth adding that the forms of co-financing provided for local government units - a grant or loan, implemented in the form of refunds - are by definition not available for local government units. This means that the local government unit must have its own resources secured for this purpose. In the case of waste illegally collected and abandoned in Pyszająca estimated, very carefully, the amount necessary for their disposal, disposal, will certainly exceed the annual budget of the municipality of Śrem and the district of Śrem. In view of the existing situation in an illegal landfill, which during periods where there is no crisis or numerous fires, is associated with the continuous existence of residents in an environment contaminated with odor from waste processes, on behalf of the mayor and residents, I inform you that the state's upset state, state institution, has already crossed the upper limit in dealing with this situation. The consequences of leaving waste in Pyszająca turned out to be fatal, the future is becoming darker and the tension among the inhabitants has long reached a critical point. That's what the mayor wrote. We have repeatedly asked the Minister of Environment, law enforcement authorities, as well as the President of the Council of Ministers to address this issue and to present effective solutions, including real sources of funding, for local self-government units, in which heaps of illegally collected waste have been left. The local authorities of both the county and the municipalities have taken all possible measures to combat an unfair entrepreneur, but in view of such a complex and costly problem, they remain powerless. This powerlessness is also known to other local government units throughout the country. I call on the climate minister to take appropriate action, to mobilise the services under the authority of the Minister, so as not to leave the local community with such difficult issues as to make the locals, where the waste is abandoned, feel that they have their country and that this country is starting to work in difficult situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u446	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition - a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What I will say in the statement is suitable for interpellation and I have prepared this, but the response to the interpellation lasts a month, while the month is too long to be dealt with. What's the matter? It concerns a great fire in Australia, its southern part, New South Wales, Victoria, two big cities: Sydney, where it is, you can say, the fire center, and Melbourne, where there are so-called. dry storms, i.e. lightning, but without rain that carry fire to other places. 30 people died, more people died in accidents. Half a million animals have been killed, it hasn't exactly been counted. A lot of people are lost, we don't know how much. That's what I hear. A billion-dollar fortune, it's just stuff. Why am I talking about this? Because I was expecting, I thought we'd hear some information from the government during this meeting. Why? Because there are 52,000 living in Sydney. Poles. These are the places of the greatest concentration of Polonia in New Wales. In Victoria - 56,000. Poles. We don't know anything about them, and we can't find out if Poles are among those who consumed the fire. We don't know if they're missing. I do not regret that we do not know, because there is chaos and it is not known who is missing, these people were not found, but I think it is necessary that as soon as possible, not in a month's time, but already, the Polish government, through consular services, asked Poles whether they needed help. Maybe their houses were burned down, maybe their property was consumed by fire, and maybe they're in a hopeless situation. Surely the question is whether you need help will prove the concern that we want to show our fellow countrymen far away. Therefore, please do so, because otherwise, as a Member, I have no possibility - as I said, the interpellation is prepared - for us to take an interest in this matter as soon as possible. This big community - we can say 200,000. it is not much - very integrated, having very good leaders will certainly help itself, but first of all it is necessary to exit from Polish diplomacy, interest, care is needed. This concern gives you a sense of security. Hence my great appeal to gather information as soon as possible about what fate is or if something has not happened. I believe it's not, but I'm not sure, and that's why it's my statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u448	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u449	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Zachem Chemical Plant in Bydgoszcz was established in 1948 and was a producer, among others. explosives, dyes and many other chemical intermediates. They were strategic in their business. However, the production profile in chemical plants has changed over the years. On several occasions and unfortunately on 30 December 2013, the company's board of directors filed for bankruptcy because of a loss of liquidity and in March 2014 the court declared the company bankrupt. The bets have fallen, but the pollution has unfortunately remained. It can be said that Zachem can be a Polish Chernobyl, because the problem is over 1600 ha of land, which is covered by many owners. The main site of contamination is the Green landfill. It has an area of more than 11 ha, but a cloud of pollutants that are emitted over the years, you can safely say that even for 50 years, it is very large and affects more than 600 ha. There are at least a dozen administrations and services in this area that have different residual activities to expand these studies. Unfortunately, over the years, there has been a rather narrow flow of information between them. On the basis of the studies carried out in 2017 and 2018 by AGH, five clouds of pollution are coming in towards Łęgów. It is necessary to establish a diagnosis of the state of the environment, identify the substances we are dealing with and propose appropriate measures. Unfortunately, we do not have enough resources from local government and it is necessary to involve the state to deal with this ticking bomb. It is worth recalling that a petition was submitted to the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2019 for the disarmament of an organic bomb in Zachem, Bydgoszcz. The petition was signed by 906 people, and the people involved in signing the petition stressed that a large number of children who live there can already suffer losses from the diseases to which they are exposed. The studies conducted today show that these pollutants are increasing and spreading at an incredible rate. They will soon be approaching the Vistula River, near the precious natural area of Natura 2000 Lower Vistula Valley. These pollutants can also affect the Baltic Sea, which in turn gives the problem an international significance. I therefore appeal to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Minister for Climate Affairs to intervene in this case. A rapid transfer of funds is needed to reduce the risk and protect Poland from the ecological degradation of many thousands of hectares. Zach's problem is the problem of Poland as a whole, it is a problem which unfortunately requires investment, one can even say: multi-billion-dollar, and if we do not start solving this problem today, we will not participate in a discussion that will safeguard funds and build a proper counter strategy, then in the future we can pay the price that Europe paid after the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. This is a post-political problem, this is a problem that we should solve with common forces: and those of the law, and of the middle, and of the left, all together, for a common purpose - the protection of the environment, the protection of life and the health of the inhabitants, and, above all, the healthy, ecological land, which today pays the price for being used by man for years. A man today should pay to recreate this land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u450	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u451	Statement on the launch of the Contact Data Register. In my statement, I would like to point out a new opportunity to improve the citizen's contact with the office and, more specifically, to clarify with the official as regards the handling of everyday, basic official matters. The Actuated Contact Data Register is another module of the System of State Registers. It will ensure that the public administration has access to the current contact details of the citizen. Accuracy and up-to-dateness are essential, as they allow for quick and effective contact with interested parties to inform them, for example. the documents ready to be received, the examination of applications submitted or the need to supplement documents or information on matters which are carried out at the offices. It is possible to use the Contact Data Register via the Internet. A trusted profile or e-proof is needed for this purpose. The RDK will only be used to inform the person directly. Only public administrations and public actors have access to data in the RDK. The contact details provided to the RDK can also be changed or deleted at any time. A separate choice is also whether a telephone number, e-mail address or both forms of contact will be made available. Through my statement, I would also like to popularize the new form of contact offered by the Contact Data Register. Its application will be translated into practical terms into the possibility of making a telephone in important cases, instead of sending a letter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-09-sejm-03-2.u452	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 10 January 2020 at 10 a.m. 10. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 04]]
