ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Dear Senators, located in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of yesterday's experience, we will now proceed to a vote which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. Please. Please state the results of the vote. And we'll see. 71 senators voted. [[Voting No 53]] That vote worked. The Problem That Appeared I would add that to the interested parties, as a result of a large number of States senators voting remotely. Windows 10 had a problem with that. But I hope everything goes smoothly today, as usual. I would like to inform the senators that during the vote And this is what I say on behalf of myself and your secretary, whom I thank very much for yesterday's help. However, we made a mistake once during the vote on Amendment 2. This mistake had no impact on the final outcome of the vote and the Senate's decision on this amendment, but I must read the explanation. We have mistakenly told you that 88 senators took part in the vote, 5 were in favour, 82 against, 1 abstained, and in fact 5 more senators took part in the vote, i.e. 93 senators, 7 senators voted in favour, 85 were against and 1 senator abstained. We failed to take into account the results of the vote in room 217. For all other 53 amendments, we did not find mistakes during the audit. We proceed with the examination of item three of the agenda: the Law amending the Budget Law for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, as announced earlier, the vote on this bill will take place today. The text of the Act is contained in print No 225 and the report of the Commission In print No 225 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, to present a report on the work of our committee on amending the budget law for 2020. Sejm on 7 October this year. At its meeting, it adopted a law amending the budget law for 2020. Mr. Marshal October 9th this year. He addressed the law to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Our committee worked on this law on 14 October 2020 and proposed to amend the Budget Act, one amendment, but extended. At the same time, we attach a minority request to our resolution, which has not been supported by the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a rule, we work at least a few days on the budget bill. We are working on it as a whole Senate and individual sectoral committees which discuss, develop all the constituent parts of the state budget, and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance presents a comprehensive report, which is the result of the work of the individual committees. In this case, in the event of an amendment to the budget for 2020, due to the urgency and validity of this amendment, the Marshal decided that the bill would be addressed only to our committee. But, of course, the meeting of the committee, which was held in this Chamber, in the plenary room, was attended by government representatives, ministers responsible for all the components of the budget that are implemented throughout the year. We're updating the budget. The 2020 budget is only being revised at the end of October, so this revised budget will probably come into force within the next few days after, finally, our amendments, possible amendments will be supported by the Senate, as they will later be presented to the Sejm, and you will sign this amendment immediately. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, we drew attention Senators, members of the committee paid attention The amendment of the budget is an amendment which was proposed very late, and this is a very big change in the budget law, which includes the introduction of a huge deficit in the state budget of PLN 109 billion. I would like to remind you that the 2020 budget has been adopted as a balanced budget, a budget that has not assumed a state deficit this year. Of course, the events that took place this year led to this deficit. Of course, as the High House remembers, our committee, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance At least some of the members of this committee, the majority of the committee pointed out that the 2020 budget, without this deficit, the balanced budget, was carried out forcefully, that this was largely due to the political pressure of the current year, and thus the desire to show that the budget could be balanced. This involved the electoral situation, the presidential elections, the various other situations. There is no need here to recall the whole context which was involved in the adoption of the budget law. We pointed out at the time that a large part of the expenditure which should normally be part of the budget, which should simply be shown in the budget, was, so to speak, pushed beyond this budget, presented as extra-budget appropriations. Part of the expenditure was implemented through bonds which were received by the dispatchers of individual budgetary parts. So in practice, this budget for the current year, 2020 was a budget with a deficit, although it was not explicitly shown in the Budget Act. Well, after the experience of these few months, the experience of the pandemic of Coronavirus, it turned out that the revenue of the state budget is clearly lower, and at the end of August this year the deficit of the state budget was estimated at more than 13 billion PLN, at almost 14 billion PLN. The government proposes that the state budget for the current year be indeed very large, so that its growth exceeds the loss of revenue of the state budget due to reduced tax revenues, excise duties, VAT and various other sources. This is a budget in which expenditure is clearly increased in relation to what was originally foreseen in the Budget Law for 2020. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we drew attention to a problem. Well, it seems to us that I am talking about most of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, but in fact you have also confirmed it. • that it will be impossible to spend all the appropriations provided for in the amendment to the Budget Act in the current year. A large and even large part of the funds that the government will have after the amendment will be spent next year. As you remember, when we adopted the previous anticovid shield, I said that this shield is basically a around-budget bill, a bill related to the forthcoming amendment of the budget law for 2020. Those expenses were already written down in that bill. First of all, the so-called ones appeared in it. non-extinguishable expenditure. This is a normal element of the budget, but the implementation of these expenditures clearly extends beyond the end of March next year. Most often, unexpired expenditure ended at the end of March of the following year, and here the non-expired expenditure was introduced until the end of November next year. So in practice, this entire budget period of the current year was extended until the end of November next year. At the committee meeting, we pointed out that the assessment of these two budgets, the budgets of 2020 and 2021, would therefore be very difficult. Well, it must be remembered that at the end of June, at the turn of June and July, the Sejm grants discharge to the government in respect of the implementation of the budget of the previous year. Earlier, there is always an accurate analysis, an analysis carried out by the Sejm committees, and concerning the implementation of the budget in its respective parts. Next year it will be practically impossible. If a large part of the expenditure foreseen in the budget for this year is spent only at the end of the second half of next year, then a real assessment of the implementation of the budget will be very difficult. I want to draw attention to what questions were raised, what problems were there? We spoke at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The first doubt that emerged... It was quite profoundly analyzed, and also the Minister explained the matter. She's unclear, difficult to explain precisely. It is known that this is always a problem. This is a question of the tax gap, of the fact that this tax gap is just starting to grow again, not to decrease as it was before. That was the problem that Senator Arndt was paying attention to. I've been paying attention, too. We asked the Minister to make sure that the issue of the tax gap was closely monitored so that we would not be surprised, that what was the pride of the government would become his failure in the near future, at least an image. The problem that we have been paying attention to is the decline in excise income and electricity. The subject of the in-depth analysis was the question of the budget deficit and this particular justification. This raised doubts for the majority of committee members. It is a question of such a large budget deficit. According to most committee members, in practice this means that there is an attempt here to make the budget of this year less transparent. We thought we were going to do it. It seemed to me, but also most of the committee members It is simply that most of the expenditure that has been planned for this year's budget, i.e. for 2 months, for November and December, should be budget expenditure for 2021. It seems that it would be rational, understandable, logical, because there is no physical possibility that the dispatchers of such a large budget within the two months they are ahead of them will spend the money that will be in this budget and which will be allocated to them. They'll be like. for road investments. We praise it, we are glad that there are measures for such purposes, for road and rail purposes, for various investments, because this is important. But they will not be launched in a large part this year, because it will simply be difficult to conduct tenders for these investments and to implement them later. Even if it is unexpired, it will be difficult to make these investments next year. We believe that the revision of the budget should be adopted with a much lower budget deficit, so that it actually corresponds to what is, to what is the state budget situation, so that there is no creating a deficit at a higher level to show that next year can be better. At the same time, the Minister informed us that the vast majority, in fact... The Minister argued that the substance or main reason for amending the budget law for the current year was that investment expenditure would be made available. And it is true that they are mostly investment expenditures, but some institutions have simply used this moment to show that you will be able to receive money for administrative expenses, such as should be, in our opinion, put aside for an easier time. After all, the funds for expenditure that will be implemented do not come from the revenue of the state budget, do not come from taxes, do not come from excise duties, do not come from traditional sources, these are not revenue from the state budget. They're just funds that are borrowed. In this context We have drawn attention to this practice. Some ministers... I was most surprised by the fact, as well as by other people, that even Deputy Prime Minister Emilewicz spent PLN 6 million on the last day of his office for employee awards. Of course, no one denies the fact that employees belonged to different things. Your Deputy Prime Minister said she found money in her budget and could therefore spend it. Similarly, other dispatchers who boasted: we found extra money in the budget and we can spend it on various, even noble goals. So far, I thought that if someone found something, that means that if there's money on the street, he picks it up, and if there's no one who lost it, he says, "I found the money." But there's no such thing here. Here are the so-called ones. The money found comes de facto from a deficit, from money that isn't there, which will be borrowed. So it seems that modesty when it comes to spending money In particular, the objectives of the functioning of the administration should be clearly increased. And we therefore felt that this matter should be treated in this way. Because this budget deficit is so easy to say, it's decided, and it's even easier to spend money, resources, finances that aren't there. As a result of this discussion, which was attended by all the senators, we have made such a decision that we have adopted an amendment that assumes... Oh, and those measures that came out there. I've been talking about this before. Which, according to the committee, do not have such a special justification, is because I know... There goes, for example. to the National Council of Radio and Television 15 million PLN. It was intended to be spent on such research programmes. They were supposedly foreseen in the 2020 budget, but as we checked, it turned out that in the 2021 budget. The National Radio and Television Council does not propose to reduce its expenditure by 15 million. It simply treats them as additional resources that can easily be spent. There were also different agencies. And this is in the Sejm resolution. For additional appropriations for the next 2 months, for some expenditure which is not relevant for the functioning of these institutions. And now the amendments that have been tabled. Amendment, which concerns, inter alia, national defence and such a central support programme. It is proposed to reduce expenditure by PLN 2 billion 990 million. That's a lot of money. This amount was adopted in the Budget Act as additional expenditure of the State budget for national defence. Our doubt in this matter was that... We therefore propose a reduction in the amount of expenditure in the part of the national defence. Since... as we have been asking what these additional funds are intended for, this explanation was not so precise and for us, for the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, it was understandable. This was mainly about advances that would be spent on the purchase of equipment, as well as on organisational changes and on the operation of the army. We thought... Of course, no one wants to reduce the amount that is intended for national defence. That's 2.2%. gross domestic product. This is a huge amount and this is a huge effort of the state budget to allocate such funds to national defence. And the additional resources are to be over 2.2%. Well, times are tough, so it seems like we should be looking for savings here too, rethinking these expenses. That is why we have made this decision. We propose that this amount should be allocated to health policy programmes - PLN 2 billion. We propose an increase in education subsidies for local government... There are always very serious problems, as you know. And this education grant never, practically in any local government... I don't think there's any self-government where she'd be all over it. At least the local government, because at the level of the powiats may be such, covered expenditure related to the functioning of education. Therefore, this is the proposal on this matter. Of course, this increase in resources for health care and education would be a total of PLN 5 billion. The second source of this commitment would be to reduce resources for land transport tasks. It seems that it will be difficult this year to spend all of this money for this purpose, so it would be possible to allocate this money to education and health. That would be the main elements of this bill. The minority proposal that Senator Frost will present has received no support... But most of the committee has proposed that an amendment be prepared for the meeting to meet the government's expectations. Because there is a request from the government for additional funds This is mainly about the issue of contributions to the European Union. Turns out these contributions have increased this year. There may also be some problems with the service of the Treasury debt. So that most people are willing to propose an amendment that would consume these expectations. Mr. Marshal, I ask for the bill to be adopted along with the amendment proposed by the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u3	Thank you very much, the rapporteur. I will now ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a proposal for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr President has already talked a little bit about this proposal by presenting in very detail the course of the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance. This minority proposal, as if to make spending more flexible, concerns 700 million, which we move from handling the Treasury's debt to the special-purpose reserve that is created for spending investment using the European Union budget. As the Minister said at the committee meeting, the offset of PLN 700 million is due to the fact that some kind of savings are estimated in the service of the Treasury debt. So much for this minority proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u5	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome the representatives of the government present today. Excuse me, pleno titulo, because I don't see everyone... We invited from the Ministry of Finance Secretary of State Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State Magdalena Rzeczkowska and 5 Undersecretaries: Piotr Patkowski, Jan Sarnowski, Piotr Dziedzic, Anna Chałupa and Piotr Nowak. From the Ministry of Health, we invited Minister Gadomiski; from the Ministry of Education, Minister of State, Undersecretary of State Maciej Kopcia; from the Ministry of National Defence, our colleague of the senator, whom I see here, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz; from the Ministry of State Assets, Mr Arthur Sobonia; from the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Bittel and Mr Rafał Weber; from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, Deputy President, Mr Arkadiusz Szymoniuk. As I understand it, not everyone is present. [[Voice from the Chamber: Now questions to the rapporteurs.]] Take it easy. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'm first and then Senator Kwiatkowski.]] First Secretary, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both Senators rapporteurs. The Senator rapporteur of the majority in his report had such a political nuisance, he said, among others. that there was to be a budget without a deficit, but it is known that the situation related to the pandemic of Coronavirus has caused, however, this deficit is very large. Yesterday there were arguments from this side of the room, proposals that it could increase the spending even more, even at the expense of increasing the deficit, so that there would be additional resources to help entrepreneurs and health care. I would like to ask: was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about why we have such a large deficit, in the sense that the government has allocated funds? Has there been talk of actions such as an anti-crisis shield, a financial shield, and what the money really went to? Well, as far as I know, they went to fight the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u7	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, we talked about this a lot. Of course, a large part of the funding from the state budget and from non-budget funds was earmarked for the fight against the coronavirus. However, the money from this deficit could not yet be spent, in accordance with the budget law, because this is the budget that will be adopted. Right? Therefore, many times earlier, on the occasion of various laws, I also on this subject I said that the amendment of the budget law should have taken place much earlier, actually even in May. Then it would make sense, and then you should determine the global expenses you can afford to fight the coronavirus. Right now, this fight is obviously going on, we all know that this money is being spent, but it's very chaotic. So we talked about it, and we know about the expenses. However, these measures resulting from an increase in the budget deficit for this year, as planned, are largely intended for development investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u9	You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A question for Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Today was the press conference of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and at this conference the Minister of Finance said that we have already financed all this year's loan needs And that's understandable. but also that even more than 10% the loan needs of next year. Is this a standard procedure for financing borrowing needs for the following year in the year ahead, and what does this entail in the context of this year's draft budget? What are the consequences of this kind of action? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The amendments that are tabled, also at the initiative of the government, show precisely that there are problems with debt management and loan needs. That the government's loan needs came true next year Well, that's not what we were talking about. That's a bit surprising information for me. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we talked more about the opposite situation, about problems, even with debt management. Therefore, this amendment, which I mentioned, which is a minority amendment, is needed, I have declared here that there must be some amendment in this matter. For the amount of approximately PLN 700 million. Yeah, and today's conference wasn't the subject of a commission a week ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u12	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u13	Mr President, a question for Senator Kleina Shouldn't you praise the government more intensively? Even if this procedure is linked to the fact that this year's budget for 2020, it is moving to the following year, i.e. 2021. Were these treatments previously used and, if so, were they used on such a large scale?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u14	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u15	It's a very complicated question. I am here as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. And the subject of our meeting was neither praising the government nor perhaps overly criticizing it. Although there was also a lot of criticism in my words, most of the committee thought that after a large deficit this year is simply... that it should not have been so big that it could and should have been done differently. Yeah, but the government and most of the Seyms have suggested that. We, as the majority of the committee, well, since the state budget is always responsible for the government, we do not propose any radical changes. Besides, it is also worth noting what we said: that the amendments to the amendment of the budget law that were made in the Sejm during the debate, when the amendment of the budget law was adopted, were transfers to a very small amount from the point of view of the state budget. Because it was... well, I don't want to talk right now, I'd have to check it out. But it was very, very small shifts in relation to what the government proposed. This even proves that such an amendment of the budget law could have been made much earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u16	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that the senators will have the opportunity to ask the government's representatives in a moment. Right now, you're asking Senator Lamczyk a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the rapporteurs. Did you talk at the committee meeting about inflation? Because, as we know, inflation here is 3.2%. , according to Eurostat, 3.8%. This is the highest inflation in Europe. How will it affect the budget? And did you talk about trade tax? Because, as we know, the Ombudsman of the Court says that this national law will be recognised, but he also talks about sugar tax. Did you talk about these problems?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u18	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u19	At the committee meeting, we did not examine all taxes in detail, but in general taxes, and we pointed out that tax revenue has clearly decreased over the last months, although not as much as it might seem. And we have pointed out the issue of inflation, but this issue has not been the subject of any major discussion, because we have been working on a law, amending the budget law for 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u20	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Zdrojewski a question. You're getting ready for Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u21	Mr President, I have a more general question. It's the end of October, the beginning of November. How come it's only now that there's an amendment to the budget, despite the fact that the expenses you mentioned have taken place since February, extraordinary expenses that have not been covered, such a formal one, in the budget bill? Did the committee you represent express an interest in looking at the state's finances earlier? Have they been analysed and were there any justifications for changes concerning investment support programmes, which are immediately named in this novel important for the Polish economy? And the last question concerns the amount of this support for local education subsidies. Did the committee have any information about the de facto gap in the education subsidy for all local governments in gremio? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u22	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u23	Mr Marshal, Mr Senator, we have drawn attention to the committee's meeting, but also earlier, that most of the expenditure that was related to the so-called. The fight against the coronavirus, most of the spending on these purposes, came actually from outside the budget. Thus, in practice, these expenditures are not visible in the budget. It was PFR, it was Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, it was institutions associated with the government, but not part of the budget. Thus, these largest amounts are not seen in the budget and in the amendment of the budget law. So that's like, uh... 100 billion PLN, which spends PFR. The issue of the whole needs of local governments regarding educational subsidies has not been analysed. These needs are, according to the information that has come to us, far greater than the amount that we expect for this purpose. We are also aware of the inconvenience of this amendment with regard to the sources of coverage, but we have simply considered these objectives related to education and health care to be the most important ones, and that is why only this only amendment appeared at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u24	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. Later, Senator Bierecki, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit I'm a little concerned as a member of the National Defence Committee. Well, I would understand if you knew what you really want to subtract from part 29 of the National Defense, but I didn't learn from the senator's report. And what are the consequences of this? Well, in the Law on technical reconstruction and modernization and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in 2001 and 2006, then extended, etc., we have art. 7. That's the law. We made a commitment, not only in NATO, but also internally, I would call it that we are talking about this in 2020 State budget expenditure for defence needs will amount to 2,1% gross domestic product. But this gross domestic product is determined on the basis of the value set out in the assumptions of the draft state budget - Well, in this case, it's not a project anymore, it's a budget. For a given year. What year is that? For 2020 What's going on? Summary expenses are increasing. In 2020, from 435 billion to 508 billion. [[Could you put a question into the senator's mind? This is the question stage.]] I'm just finishing my formulation. If the denominator is growing, the numerator must also rise to 2.1%. GDP has been preserved, statutory, and I am no longer talking about NATO commitments. And you want to take this away. The question is, are you doing this consciously? Because once, you don't know what it is, and two of it doesn't comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u27	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I felt, of course, that if we touched the issue of the national defence budget, there would be defenders who would point this out and say that we are against the military, against the defence and against the military power of Poland. There's no such thing. I would just like to say this: this percentage refers to gross domestic product and, of course, gross domestic product will shrink this year. So, theoretically, it would be possible even though no one's suggesting it... But you could and probably wouldn't have been opposed to NATO, and somewhere else, if these expenses were to fall by some small part of the planned expenditure. But that's not what we're proposing here. This amount is the additional appropriations that were reported at the meeting... no, in the amendment of the budget law. Yet the budget law has been adopted taking into account the percentage that should be allocated to national defence. So it's our action that doesn't have a purpose at all to lower the national defence budget. [[Thank you very much...]] These are additional measures that have emerged as if beyond what was planned in the 2020 budget. Minister Skurkiewicz is here and I think he will confirm that he is. Right? That while working in the Sejm or perhaps in the government, additional resources for this purpose have been allocated, in addition to those already adopted in the budget law for 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u28	Thank you very much. Right now, remotely, Mr. Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I want to correct the information, or perhaps more so, ask Senator Kleina to correct the manifest error he made in his statement. Mr. Senator said that the state has debt problems, and proof of that is the correction of the minority, which I am one of the applicants. This minority amendment moves the funds from the debt fund to the funds to be available for the expenditure related to our membership in the European Union, so it is difficult to find evidence of debt problems in this amendment. It is also difficult to say that the Polish state is currently having problems with debt management. This is such a serious matter that the statements of the chairman of the Senate committee need to be corrected. There may have been mistakes in the discussion in haste, but please pay attention to this undoubted error. So the first thing is a corrigendum. The second issue relates to pre-financing, to pre-financing of budgetary expenditure, which has always appeared and in connection with all budgets. Was the cost of this pre-financing discussed at the committee meeting? Did the committee have information that the government had recently been able to place Polish bonds with negative interest rates? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u31	Mr. Marshal, I didn't understand the last part because there were some... If you could have the senator again... It's about pre-financing... [[If Senator Bierecki could...]] ...and what it's all about... [[Indeed, it sounds quite vague, as if...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u32	Maybe I have a weaker connection this time. I'm sorry. It is about the negative interest rate of the bonds, about the government being able to sell the bonds at a negative interest rate, and about the cost of pre-financing, whether it was discussed during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u33	I think we heard it now. Yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u34	Senator Bierecki was a participant, remote, but he was, a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, so he knows that this issue has not been further analysed. Issues related to the negative cost of bonds and pre-financing have probably not even been analysed at all. As for debt management problems, it's possible that I made a mistake here. If so, I'll back off. I think the Minister will explain the matter in detail. The problem is that the State is obliged to finance contributions to the European Union, and there are other problems with these matters, so I think that the Minister's explanation of the matter will indeed be the best solution. I don't want to say here because it may have been my mistake that the government is having debt problems, because it doesn't, it supports it, but it is obviously a huge expense and there are problems with it, as always with any debt service.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u35	I would like to remind you that after talking to Minister Kościński, we have accelerated the Senate's deliberations on this matter. Although I am not talking about delays here, Poland has some obligations towards the European Union, which must be settled by the end of October, hence today's deliberations, not tomorrow. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have questions that generally relate to environmental protection. I don't know if the draftsman of the committee will be able to and will want to answer me, or rather the minister will. I'll draw up these questions. The Committee on Budgets and Finance has presented draft changes to the budget on such really fundamental issues and I have these questions. Well, it has changed quite significantly in terms of percentage share, financing environmental issues up to only 64% the initial value. At the same time it increased I don't know if that results, for example. from the change in economic divisions and the transfer of these amounts • financing of water management. I'd like to ask what that amount is. Also in the case of fossil-based tasks, the fossil-based economy had a very large increase in quotas, an increase of almost 300%. I have such short but detailed questions, so I think they are addressed rather to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u37	Thank you very much. I think these are more questions for the Minister. There's still time to ask them. Now the Minister, Senator Skurkiewicz, then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for President Kleina, in a sense the question explaining the goals for which 3 billion PLN is to be given. In fact, this financial means will allow to finance tasks related to the acquisition of military resources, with particular emphasis on long-range ammunition, as well as the one produced by the Polish defence industry. The funds will be used to purchase battle platforms, including beeps, and specialized versions on the KTO Rosomak platform or rescue ship Rescuer, but also for example. to purchase pontoon bridges to support the presidents of different cities in the event of environmental disasters. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the funds to support the domestic defence industry, the domestic arms industry, especially in the current situation, in a pandemic situation and its difficult financial situation. That is why I am surprised that you have made such an amendment, because this is really very much support for the Polish arms industry, which, let's not hide, in a large part or almost entirely, is maintained by the state budget or directly by the Ministry of National Defence. Does this mean, Mr President, that you do not want the development of the domestic arms industry, that you do not want financial support for this arms industry? I particularly ask this in the context of today's pandemic and the difficulty of getting small orders, which are very often for companies such as Mesko, such as Dozamet, such as the weapons factory in Radom, are almost on the scale of salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at the committee's meeting, we asked what this money was meant to be for. Here you have made this point very detailed and to a greater extent. Well, according to this information, This can be read in the minutes of our committee's meeting The majority of the expenditure was to be advances for various purchases which would be carried out only in the future. And it seems that the problem of advance payments is one of such major problems with clearing up this part of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, because there are advances every year. So we decided that since these are advances for various types of purchases, they can also be implemented within the budget next year. That's why it's a decision. I do not know if you also confirm what I said, that these are the additional resources that have been left behind by the measures provided for in the budget law for 2020, the funds now earmarked for national defence. So the funding of national defense has been increased above even this indicator, because I assume that this indicator is and was implemented. So that it was additional resources beyond those that were national defence revenues for 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u41	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u42	Dear Senator, I would like to ask you about building a seat for the Camerimage Festival in Toruń. It is a famous Polish festival, organized for years. His home was moved several times. Once she was in Bydgoszcz, another time she was in Toruń and probably several times in other places. I would like to ask whether this matter was raised at the committee meeting, whether there were questions on the matter at the budgetary committee meeting. If not, I will address my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u44	This particular case was not dealt with by the committee. However, we have appreciated that not only in part of the culture, but also in other parts of the budget, funds are spent on development investments, although, as I say all the time, from the budget deficit. This is... [[Yeah, but I understand it wasn't discussed...]] This case wasn't analyzed. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u45	Thank you kindly. There are no more questions at this stage. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u46	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The 2020 budget was to be the first sustainable budget in 30 years, in which budget expenditure... [[If the Minister isn't afraid and can take off his mask... we'll hear better.]] If possible, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The budget for this year was to be the first sustainable budget in 30 years. In line with the provisions of the Budget Law for 2020 of 14 February this year, revenue was to be equal to expenditure and amounted to PLN 435 billion 300 million. In March this year, however, there was an outbreak of a pandemic, which will cause one of the biggest economic crises in recent years. The consequences of the pandemic have surrounded the whole world and have not missed Poland either. The pandemic situation forced the updating of the basic budgetary and macroeconomic parameters and the preparation of appropriate tools to combat the effects of the pandemic. Therefore, the priority of the presented amendment to the budget law for 2020 is to provide the means to further stimulate the development of the Polish economy so as to ensure that the growth path is restored as soon as possible. COVID has caused a sharp slowdown in economic activity and a decline in current trends in most macroeconomic categories, starting in mid-March this year. In the first quarter of this year, the annual rate of GDP growth decreased to 2% and reached the lowest level since the third quarter of 2013. There was also a low growth rate of 2 main components of gross domestic product, i.e. household consumption and investment. In the second quarter of this year, i.e. already during the lockdown period, GDP was already lower than a year ago and by as much as 8.2%. We expect GDP to fall by 4.6% throughout 2020 and for the first time since the early 1990s there will be a recession, against GDP growth by more than 4% the year before and initially planned growth by 3,7% in the current year. Average employment in the national economy is also expected to decrease by 2.4% throughout 2020 , against an increase of 1.5% in 2019 and growth by 0,5% originally laid down in the budget law for 2020. Payments in the national economy should increase by 3.5% 7.2% increase in 2019 and growth by 6% initially planned this year. It is also expected that inflation will increase to 3.3% compared to inflation of 2.3%. the year before and expected inflation of 2,5% This year. Turning to the basic budgetary parameters, it should be noted that in the first half of this year, as a result of the tightenings introduced, there was an unfavourable situation in terms of the implementation of state budget revenue. We are forecasting that in 2020 the revenue of the state budget will be lower than planned in the budget law by around 36.7 billion, i.e. About 8.4%. For this reason there is a greater drop in tax revenues and these revenues will be reduced by PLN 40.3 billion. Non-tax revenues of about PLN 3.6 billion would be higher. The revision of the budget law for 2020 is necessary not only because of the updating of the basic budgetary and macroeconomic parameters. It is also intended to give a positive impetus to the development of the Polish economy. Given the current economic and financial situation caused by the outbreak of the pandemic, in order to give a positive boost to the development of the economy, the total expenditure of the state budget was increased by PLN 72,7 billion, up to PLN 508 billion. What would be the highest positions of this growth? In part, the total expenditure would be around 14 billion together with the special reserves. Here you can distinguish such expenditures: funds for the National Road Fund - an increase of around 2.5 billion; funds for the Local Road Fund - an increase of 3.8 billion; funds to accelerate investment in the National Railway Programme An increase of 1 billion 200 million; measures to recapitalisation the so-called. companies of the daughter of PKP An increase of 1 billion 850 million. It means an increase in expenditure, by 3 billion, will also appear in the area of national defence already discussed here. Here our intention was to introduce a certain investment impulse, so that as many measures as possible. Mr. Senator, Minister, spoke about it and went to Polish companies and to contract them in the current financial year. This was preceded by an analysis. The proposed amount was analysed in terms of the possibility of its development, mainly by Polish companies. There are also plans to increase agricultural expenditure. Together with funds from the European Union budget, this is about PLN 3 billion. Health funds have been increased by a total of PLN 2 billion for the Medical Fund. For public security there will be 1 billion 400 million more, for the fossil economy A total of 1 billion 300 million, for higher education and science, as well as culture and the protection of national heritage More than PLN 500 million. At the same time, the draft amendment provided funds for the payment to the Solidarity Fund of PLN 26,5 billion and to the Social Insurance Fund of PLN 12 billion. As a result of the reduction of the projected revenue of the state budget and the increase in expenditure, the maximum deficit of the state budget is estimated to be no more than PLN 109 billion 300 million. As the rapporteur has already said, the amendments at the Sejm level were not major amendments. These were minor transfers in Part 15, Part 20 and between parts, for which the Home Affairs Coordinator and the Special Services are responsible. In conclusion, I will say that the revision of this year's budget under current economic conditions allows us to update the forecast of the budgetary position this year. The government has put in place a series of measures to help our economy cope with the economic consequences of Coronavirus. This required the involvement of significant financial resources through the covid fund and the shield of the Polish Development Fund. However, we still need resources to develop the economy and stimulate investment so that next year the economy can return to the path of rapid growth. Dear Marshal, High Senate, I would also like to address the issue of public debt costs. As Senator Bierecki said, there is no problem with handling this debt. On the contrary, it seems that with this item we can make some savings, and hence the minority proposal supported by the government side. Such an amendment would allow for the transfer to the special reserves of PLN 700 million and a more flexible use of these funds, perhaps due to the need to increase the payment to the European Union, as in the amending budget the amount of our payment has been increased by PLN 1 billion this year. Dear Marshal, High Senate, I ask you kindly to adopt the budget law. At the same time, I would like to thank you for speeding up the Senate meeting and voting today. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. We always try as Senate in matters that concern the fundamental and vital interests of our state, to be at our disposal. I would like to inform you that the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Very many senators. We're gathering... [[Voice from the room: Bogdan Zdrojewski.]] ...signs. Please be the first to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's question. And all senators, please report to Senator Secretary for questioning. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u48	Minister, I have a lot of questions, but at the beginning, 3 large and smaller. Firstly, not only because of the pandemic, because for various reasons the Treasury companies lost value On an unimaginable scale. Does the Ministry recommend any consequences for the CEOs of these companies? I know that despite this loss of value, they still receive quite a variety of prizes. So, in short, does the Ministry recommend any consequences for those responsible as a result of the loss of such a serious value for most companies of the Treasury? That's one thing. Secondly, the question related to the commission of science and education. At that time, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin declared his support for the initiative of Alexander Milinkiewicz in connection with the uprising or construction project of the Belarusian University in Warsaw. This has been developing for a long time and there was a need for modest financial assistance. Will this modest help eventually be provided? Because I know that time is running out when it comes to this project, and we know what the situation is in Belarus. In short, not to burn, not to be late with a financial response. Let me stress once again: it is a very modest amount. And the last question in this tour: is the Ministry aware of the scale of underestimation of educational subsidies under current conditions? Also taking into account the existing pandemic and the need for local governments to bear additional costs related to remote teaching and other consequences, including the need for disinfection, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as the first question is concerned, the Minister for State Assets would be more appropriate, but I would point out that, to a large extent, these stock market declines are a global trend, not just a Polish one. As far as remuneration issues are concerned, salaries in the so-called. the new chimney law for companies of the State Treasury is systematically frozen and for 2021 such a freezing is also planned. That's all I can say from the perspective of the Minister of Finance. On the second point and declaration by Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin I had previously worked as Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education and I would like to say that I had not heard of this initiative, but I would like to draw attention to it. Even though it's more of a question for Minister Czarnek The budget of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is growing significantly this year, thanks to this amendment. It is there, as I recall, about 600 million for investment activities and there are also funds for the announced salary increases for academic teachers, which means that this budget is increasing significantly. So I think that... I don't know what amount was here, but I think that if there was such a positive decision, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education would be able to provide such assistance. Regardless of this, I would like to say that the amount has also been increased at the disposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as I recall, by 50 million just in terms of assistance from Belarus. The general reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers has also been significantly increased because it increases by 300 million. So these measures, I think, would be to be obtained if there was such a directional decision. I haven't been in these conversations. This is the first time I've heard of this project. As far as awareness of the issue related to the amount of subsidies is concerned, I would like to point out here that over PLN 6 billion has already been allocated from the Local Investment Fund to local government units for investments in algorithmic mode. This is an additional 6 billion. By the end of September there was a call for proposals and soon I think it's definitely in November. These measures will be split up and transferred to local government units. I pay attention to two more aspects. ♪ This year ♪ I've already mentioned it here. As a result of the amendment, the Self-Government Road Fund would increase by 3 billion 800 million. These measures would be directed exclusively at local government units. As I recall, an increase in educational subsidies is planned for 2021 in the amount of PLN 2.2 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u52	Minister, let me start with the question you inspired me to ask a second ago. You said you were planning to increase the funds of the Self-Government Road Fund by 3 billion this year. It's actually November. How are local government officials supposed to spend this money by the end of the financial year? That's the first question. Second question. Do you often use such a tool That's what I've asked Senator Kleina before, but that question should be addressed to you. That you finance loan needs for the following year in the preceding year? I refer, of course, to the declaration by Minister Kościński on financing 10% this year. the loan needs for 2021. Third question. Is the financial situation of the budget... This situation, of course, in connection with the coronavirus, you said it yourself, is more difficult. You assume, according to updated forecasts, a recession of 4.6% for this year. And this, of course, has an impact on the budgetary situation. Can this affect the implementation of large, central investments? I'm asking, for example. CPK. There is talk of changing projects related to access roads, i.e. in practice reducing the implementation of this investment, leaving the so-called. spokes, which was supposed to assume a greater extension of railway lines to the CPK. And the fourth question. Are the tax administrations able to cope with their tax collection duties? I would ask you to answer the questions in the order in which I asked them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u54	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'm gonna start by asking you the first question about the Self-Government Road Fund. These measures will not have to be issued by local government units this year. The Fund would be powered by these funds, would have financial certainty and would organise calls for proposals and competitions. The funds neither by the fund nor by local government units would have to be spent this year. As far as the question on loan needs is concerned, the answer is positive. Yes, it is a standard action that during the year, especially at the end of the year, there is a buffer for the country's lending needs for the following year. Although the budget is annual, the State must nevertheless have continuity and liquidity. So that this is not a non-standard action, as much as it is done. The third question concerned the implementation of the investment. I told you here that we're going in a slightly different direction, that we're rather trying to accelerate these investments, which is what the figures I was talking about are proof of here. 3 billion additional national defence funds, more than 14 billion related to investment and modernisation in road or rail infrastructure, about PLN 1 billion for the Ministry of Interior and Administration, about PLN 600 million for higher education, about PLN 280 million for the maritime economy. As for the fourth question, if the FAS is dealing with the collection of taxes and other charges, I have no knowledge of what would be wrong. But we have Minister Chalupa, the deputy head of the KAS, so if you'll allow me, I think he'll give you more detailed information about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u55	Thank you very much. [[I might be the one to ask, especially in the context of the possibility of an answer by the head of the KAS.]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u56	I didn't happen to ask the question of whether the National Tax Administration can handle its tasks. Today we can read that you are preparing a new directory of privileges for the IRS officers. And so, among other things. They will have the opportunity to check for fingerprints and DNA of suspected economic crimes, and the army, specifically the Military Police, will be helping with this tax administration. The project supposedly assumes the possibility of deploying military police officers to carry out business tasks in the National Tax Administration units. Therefore, my question is whether indeed the National Tax Administration is in such a state that it needs support by posting soldiers of the Military Gendarmerie to carry out its statutory duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u57	Thank you very much. You're welcome. You can do it from the start, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u58	Good. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the activities of the National Tax Administration, good morning, Anna Chałupa, Deputy Head of the National Tax Administration, is from my knowledge and weekly reports, which we receive from the directors of the tax administration... We don't have any indication that tax revenues are in any way in jeopardy. Of course, the covid situation is very difficult for us, because unfortunately the state of illness of employees and officials of the National Tax Administration is growing, but we are trying to reduce this crisis situation somehow. The fall at the end of September was about 1.9%. As far as the revenue from taxes and customs is concerned, we're obviously trying to catch up. So that here I at least don't see or hear about the information from the field. With regard to the article from the Business Pulse, to which I understand Mr. Senator refers, we are in the process of examining where journalists have this information, that in any way we are trying to involve the military in activities in the National Tax Administration. I don't have any information that this is really happening. I'm afraid... it's a novelty for us, too, as head of the KAS. [[Don't worry, it's good news you don't need military support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a more general question. In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment of the budget law, we have information, in total, that government programs within the framework of the crisis shield and the financial shield of the Polish Development Fund for companies and employees protected companies from major losses in the first period of the epidemic state. Here's my question. How many measures have been addressed to companies jointly under the crisis shield and the financial shield? Do you have any analysis of how many jobs have been saved? If you have such information now, I would ask very much, and if it is any more detailed and there is no way to answer it now, I will ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I can give you the amounts that have been directed to counter the effects of the outbreak from the COVID fund and from the Polish Development Fund. From the COVID fund currently spent, it is involved, from the financial plan to more than 112 billion, about 66.5 billion. On the other hand, from the PFR funds, without taking into account the announcements made today by the Prime Minister, about PLN 60.5 billion in total was transferred to selected industries. As regards jobs and unemployment, I can address this at general level. The unemployment rate is still at 6.1% And she doesn't grow, she doesn't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Ewa Matecka, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have four short questions for the Minister. You'll allow the marshal to ask first and second, I'll ask for an answer, and then I'll go to third and fourth. Minister, when I examined the revision of the budget, there was no record of the newly created Medical Fund. Therefore, please indicate to me where he is located in this amendment, what are the sources of funding for this fund and how this increase has arisen. I'll ask you two more questions after I answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as the Medical Fund is concerned, it was provided for in the presidential bill on the Medical Fund. Not long ago, Mr. President signed this bill. I do not know if it is already published, but it has certainly been signed by your President. As regards the issue of PLN 2 billion, this year these funds were secured in the special reserve in part 83. Next year it is planned to transfer twice the amount to this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u67	Thank you very much. I'll repeat that question I've already asked Senator Kleina. Well, I share... Well, I'm always happy to see some investment in culture, but so expensive investment, for 600 million, at the second stage of the pandemic can raise some questions. I would like to ask the Minister what the 32 million planned for by the end of the year will be used for. Well, I'd like to get an answer like that. I wouldn't bother you if it weren't for Minister Gliński, despite our repeated invitations, to attend the meetings of the cultural committee, and we're not able to find out anything about these investments, their state or their closing date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I can only confirm that these funds, 32 million zlotys, are linked to a long-term government programme on the construction of the Camerimage headquarters in Toruń. I think more detailed information about the later functioning of this investment... Well, that's the role of Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Nevertheless, I confirm that such a government programme is in place and that this year the funds have been secured at this level.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u70	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind my saying...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u71	So fast. Minister, as I said, I wouldn't bother you, but the Minister of Culture refuses to attend the cultural committee meeting. Since the budget bill didn't go to our committee, I'm asking this question here. Well, in that case, I'm asking you to answer... If you can't answer right now, I'll ask for a written reply. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about this Solidarity Fund. It arises from various sources, among others. from this solidarity tax on persons with the highest income. That's a pretty big amount. As I recall, 26 billion zlotys are in this fund. Please indicate what these funds will be allocated to. Do we know in what proportions and to whom they will be granted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u74	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Yes, the entire amount, PLN 26,5 billion, is intended to be paid into the Solidarity Fund. More than PLN 11 billion is the cost of the thirteenth pension, more than PLN 10 billion, i.e. 10.4 or 10.5 billion is the cost of the fourteenth pension, and the remainder, as I recall, will be used to supplement the so-called benefits. social pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u76	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Czerwinski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I keep coming back to this one single amendment that, in a sense, hits mostly national defense. These 3 billion zlotys are about 6% of the total budget or national defence expenditure. So it's a lot. First we learned that it was not clear at the committee meeting, but after the explanations of Minister Skurkiewicz, I think we know what this is going to go for. For the Polish arms industry, to maintain its potential. Yeah, well, the target's pretty good. He's defending himself. Then there was a second translation, sort of changing the statement that it was pre-financing. Minister, is it really the case that this financial year is the first time pre-financing, or is it a normal practice that is being applied in this particular area of national defence? That's the first question. And the second, I think, is a more rhetorical question. Whether such a reduction in the budget will help or hinder the possible maintenance of this percentage, which is set both by law, at 2,1% as well as, above all, alliedly, in NATO this is 2%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The amount of PLN 3 billion was negotiated with the Ministry of National Defence. According to what we have agreed, first of all the funds should be earmarked for orders, for Polish companies, as a budgetary part of such an anti-crisis shield, it is about as many public contracts as possible from the 2020 funds. As the senator noted, Minister Skurkiewicz explained and specified precisely the companies for which these funds would be potentially intended. As far as the issue of advance payment is concerned, to my knowledge, it is natural for defence orders. There are even special solutions and provisions allowing a much higher amount of advances than the amount typical for other competitions, tenders. But the Minister is with us, and I think that this question should be more addressed to the Minister, Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u80	You're welcome... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... it's already been explained, but it's a matter of common sense. Mr. Senator Klein, there's a time to withdraw from this amendment. Why don't you do something about it after these explanations?]] Thank you very much. I ask the senator, Minister Skurkiewicz, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! In fact, it is not unusual that the Armed Forces or the Ministry of National Defence will advance their orders in the Polish arms industry or in any case, because these are multi-annual orders, orders that are executed within a period of 5, 6 or even 10 years. The principle has remained unchanged since the Civil Platform ruled or when the Democratic Left Alliance ruled. One value has changed. Until 2015 there was a possibility to advance up to 25% the contract, currently up to 30% of the contract can be advanced. However, I am in a hurry to explain to you that advance payments are carried out in such a way that the entity that executes the order for the Ministry of National Defence and which is in advance in order to receive further funding under certain tranches must settle this first amount, i.e. the first 25% or 30%. This has to be done so that we can count on more money. There is no way to advance, e.g. 70%, 80% or 90% , and do not have recipients of the work, work or performance of weapons. Everything that is pre-paid must be settled, only then can there be another order or another tranche. And one more very important thing. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest, this is an IV for the home arms industry. Our arms industry is not as rich and well developed as German or French or British companies. Therefore, such a financial supply is necessary, in the pre-financing formula. But let me repeat: there is no way to transfer another tranche if the first tranche is not settled. And that's because they're multi-annual orders. This is another issue that affects the execution of orders, but also the payment schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u82	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, my person was summoned by your senator. Did...]] Sekundek... I understand you're Senator Klein in ad vocem mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the amendment is an amendment to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, so my withdrawal doesn't mean anything, because it's the whole committee that does these things, but I'm sure the committee would make such a change. If the Minister pointed out another better source of funding for these health and education tasks, especially at primary and secondary levels, because these are educational subsidies, then we are willing to change this source of funding. Except that I would like to ask the Minister to close this issue and conclude: does this mean that the Ministry of National Defence has already spent all the investment funds that were planned this year, the entire investment pool has used up and therefore there is a need to mobilise this money this year?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u84	Thank you very much. I see... Well, you asked a little question, then, as I understand it, Mr. Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuza: Mr Marshal, High Senate, I think this question is again more to Minister Skurkiewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u85	If you don't mind, I'll answer... [[You're welcome.]] ...Mr. President Senator Kleina. Yes, Mr. Senator, we have the money we have in the budget... They are programmed, and this also imposes a law on us on the technical modernisation of the Armed Forces. We spend a certain amount from the budget for technical modernisation of the Armed Forces. E.g. in the budget of 2020 this is the amount of PLN 12 billion. And please remember that we operate, based on a document that is called the Technical Modernization Plan, PMT, where they are especially... This is a secret document, especially the members of the National Defence Committee know how it works. It's written there, in the perspective of 2035, year after year, the operational programme after the operational programme... Everything is carefully distributed, which is financed in the following years and how much money it must be. Therefore, it is difficult to develop, especially in a pandemic situation, when industrial plants expect additional orders like a proverbial canyon, they expect to be supported because they are in a really difficult economic situation... The point is that these armament facilities can continue to function, exist, and maintain a highly qualified workforce. And that's the drip we're trying to do for the defense industry. I am aware that the expectations of the arms industry are much higher or much more excessive, but it will be an injection that will allow us to close this year in these companies without any financial turbulence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u87	Thank you very much. I've already asked the committee rapporteur. In fact, the case against others may be minor. However, there are significant shifts in the departments of the environment, the water economy and, as it is called nicely, the economy with fossil deposits. Whether the first two divisions, the water economy and the environment, are complementary and due to structural changes in one section, 40% have disappeared. And the other one arrived? Is my thinking good? If that is the case, I am calmer because this money remains, generally speaking, in a broadly understood environment. But I would ask you to explain this very significant increase, by more than... almost 300%, in the fossil economy. Is there hidden mining here? What's in it? I'd like an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Yes, I can confirm that in terms of climate, environment and maritime or water management, these are shifts, you can say, administrative and system. There was no reduction here. Just changed the scope of government departments, by order of the President of the Council of Ministers some transfers were made. As far as issues related to the fossil economy are concerned, these are also issues arising from systemic changes. There's no... For this increase I don't remember the amount right now. I'll take it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Lamczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to hear from the Minister about this public debt, about the 109 billion deficit. We know that in the government's communication it happened that some of these coins are supposed to be an impulse for the development of the Polish economy. Can the Minister tell you what percentage of this 109 billion deficit is going to go to such an impulse? And the other thing. We know that outside the register of public debt money was pushed out to fight COVID-19. Well, 100 billion were given to the guardianship of the State Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, another 100 billion went to the Polish Development Fund. All this is to be financed by bonds. According to the EU methodology This includes debt and, according to the national government, no. I have a question: what will be the deficit of the public finance sector? How much is he gonna be at the end of the year? And what will be the public debt at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As regards the first question, the question is how many measures will be directed to counter the effects of the COVID, especially in terms of economic activity, I think I have already talked about this. These are investment and development expenditure: 14 billion for infrastructure; 3 billion for investment in national defence; over 1 billion for the Ministry of Interior and Administration; 600 million for the Ministry of Science and Higher Education; over 500 million, perhaps 587 for cultural and national heritage issues I am also talking about investments; 280 million for the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. I think these measures are pro-investment measures. As for the data that the senator wants to know... If we are talking about public sovereign debt, according to the national methodology, this debt will be slightly above 50% this year. GDP. According to the EU methodology, this debt, including the debt of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Polish Development Fund, will be at the end of this year at 61.9% GDP. This is our assumption of public debt according to national and EU methodologies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u95	Just a quick question. Minister, is it true that the VAT gap is rising this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u96	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I think that this question cannot be answered at the moment, as data on the calculation of the VAT gap are transmitted with a long delay. You can't answer that question right now. As far as the current income reports are concerned, attempts to estimate this VAT gap are at high risk of over-estimation or underestimation. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to what I pointed out at the committee's meeting when discussing another such shield, as Senator Kleina said, a covid budgetary shield. I can say that VAT revenues are being rebuilt in the current months and are an average of 15, 16 billion each month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u98	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Swede for another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, before I asked about entrepreneurs, they were particularly affected by the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic. These effects have been affected very strongly by local governments. There has already been a speech here, among others. About the Self-Government Road Fund. 3.8 billion will be allocated this year to local roads, municipal and district roads. I'd like to ask... The Minister spoke about a local investment fund, where we have 6 billion This is prepared, I think there are proposals for a local investment fund at the moment. How much will the total amount be allocated to local authorities in 2020? Does the Minister have that information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u100	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u101	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Senate! Yeah, you could count it. The subsidy was not restricted at all. Plus, from what I remember, the local investment fund is supposed to be even a little more than 12 billion. As I remember, about 250 million were added to the so-called. Popegeer municipalities. Plus the money you've been talking about for the senator, which is $3.8 billion for the Self-Government Road Fund. Plus, they're still there, although I don't think we can count it so precisely right now... Well, they're not large amounts, but they are. It is about such grants for the financing of certain tasks of local government units, here there were no restrictions, cuts as regards the current year. Next year, as I said, subsidies, especially educational subsidies, are growing by 2.2 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u102	I ask the senator to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u103	Minister, if I may request a detailed written information in this regard... It's all the shows, it's how much it hit... The state of knowledge for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Ewa Matecka, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, you have assured me that there is no Medical Fund, and this is a reserve without a purpose, no destination and no description. You didn't answer my question, so I'm asking them again. What are the sources of funding for this increase in the health reserve and the items from which the reduction was made so that these 2 billion could be included in the health reserve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As I said, the bill was passed by the Sejm and signed by the President. The Medical Fund Act has not yet entered into force, the vacathio legis is probably 30 days. Secondly, I would like to say that these funds have not been transferred from a position to a special reserve, but the deficit has been increased and these measures have been included... There was absolutely no cut here. These are the additional 2 billion included in the special reserve, not the general reserve, so that they have the objective to fund the Medical Fund, only and only for this purpose. As I said, budget subsidies are the main source of funding for the Medical Fund. Next year this grant is planned at the level of PLN 4 billion. This year these measures are secured in reserve, there was no transfer from other items This is simply a new position in the special reserve. It's increasing the deficit, but I think the target is most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if an ordinary man, a normal family touches a cataclysm, I don't know, e.g. The wind's gonna rip the roof off the house, so what are they doing? Even if they were planning on buying a new car, they're giving up this expense, even if they're planning to buy a washing machine or a refrigerator, they're giving up this expense, even if they're planning on going away on vacation, vacations, they're giving up this expense and they're taking all the money, resources and opportunities to fix the ruined house to fix the broken roof. I wanted to ask you, Minister, what do you think is the biggest problem in Poland that our country and society have suffered, to which we should direct all our resources, all our capital, and all our human and financial resources, in order to protect and protect us from the consequences, the negative consequences of this disaster. What's this? 'Cause when I look at the state budget, I see total spending. Increased, it's not the normal ones, it's the increased ones, e.g. for mining and mining, for transport and communications, national defence, already mentioned here, public security, various settlements, etc... Summa summarum: over 70 billion PLN. But that's only 3% for health care. Of this only 3% for this disaster which Poland has now touched. So we are to understand that the threat of the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic is not the biggest disaster that hit Poland in 2020? Then what is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u111	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I don't think we're any different here. We know that pandemic is the greatest disaster that has ever happened to us. And it was hard to imagine such a thing as a pandemic cataclysm, for example. A year ago. As regards the allocation of funds, I would like to point out that the funds for the fight against the coronavirus, including in the medical field, have been planned in the covid fund. This year, the Minister of Health at the disposal of PLN 10.1 billion of additional resources. And with regard to the expenses that you spoke about, I believe that these are also measures to counter the effects of the COVID, maybe not directly health effects, but economic and social impacts, which is also important. And, as we have said, we have tried to make this budget pro-investmental. And that is why from the local investment fund, the covid fund was allocated, for local government units, 12 billion PLN, which will enter into the income of local government units. These investments we have been talking about and about by the Minister, Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, are also countering the economic effects of COVID. Also the PFR shield, helping entrepreneurs to do so. We don't forget medical attention. And, as I said, additional funds were planned in the covid fund, apart from the GDP limit included in the state budget and in the financial plan of the National Health Fund, an additional PLN 10.1 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u112	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] Here you go, extra, I understand, question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u113	Yes, sir. Because it's a very important issue, I think it's the most important thing I'd say. Well, I can't imagine we might think there's a more important issue. If you accept what the Minister says as a good coin, I would like to ask: are these measures planned, are they? Because you said: there are measures planned, over PLN 10 billion. I ask this because from all over Poland information about the collapse of health care is coming to us about a dramatic, tragic situation. Besides, as the Minister knows, at the end of last year, the hospital debt Not all health care, but hospitals were more than... ...at the end of last year, the hospital debt Not the whole health care, health care, but hospitals were over PLN 15 billion. Everywhere we learn that there is no money for staff and equipment, and yet additional places for patients with COVID are created. So what I'm asking is, is this money planned? When will the real money be? When will health care be able to reach out and use it to protect citizens from the epidemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! These measures are real. The limit is at the level of PLN 10 billion 100 million. As I recall... Last time I saw the data on use, it used PLN 5.6 billion. I have no information that in the covid fund, because we are talking about this fund and about this source of funding, there are any liquidity problems, such that due to the needs of the Ministry of Health, funds are not paid in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd ask you to bring it up to speed. Well, I looked at the comparative data and noticed that the cost of handling the Treasury's debt is increased by about PLN 2.2 billion in this amendment. The target reserve is increased by PLN 6 billion 830 million and the budget of the National Radio and Television Council That's $15 million. I would ask for information if this service of the Treasury debt... I would ask you to explain why you need these increases, especially in terms of the budget of the National Radio and Television Council. Because as long as these first changes may be linked to the pandemic, the question of the budget of the National Radio and Television Council has given me some thought. Is there any particular task of the National Radio and Television Council, which somehow was not included in the original version of the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u118	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I may refer to additional funds of PLN 2 billion 200 million for debt management. Indeed, we are planning such an increase. This would be a consequence of the increased lending needs of the State. In a balanced budget, they were planned for PLN 70 million, and now they are planned, if I remember correctly, for PLN 170.180 billion. Sorry, billions. And that's a change in that title. Nevertheless, perhaps we are now... the draft budget law was adopted by the Council of Ministers in August. Now we think that perhaps under this heading there will be some savings, and that is why there is this minority proposal that the Council of Ministers supports. Perhaps not all funds from the debt management section will be used. As regards the issue of the National Radio and Television Council, there was a discussion at the meeting of the budgetary committee. The National Radio and Television Council informed that it was able to accelerate, postpone some telemetry studies related to the functioning of the media from next year. I'm not a mediocre expert, but from what I understand, this research would make it possible to get better publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, Minister, although perhaps it is more a question addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture or the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The expenditure section of the European budget refers to amounts. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of actions financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which are exceptional and temporary in order to provide assistance to farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in processing, marketing or development of agricultural products, particularly those affected by the crisis of COVID-19. We have here information that the support will be 2%. the allocation of RDPs. I would like to ask whether this is the only programme with regard to this financial perspective and how many funds from the Rural Development Programme 2014 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will have to ask the Minister of Agriculture for help in this matter and I will address the question in writing in detail. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that during the summer months, using the possibility to ensure the liquidity of anti-COVID measures, the Agency has managed to transfer funds to farmers for aid in connection with drought and, as far as I know, there is no delay on this issue at the moment. However, after consulting the Minister for Agriculture, we will make a detailed explanation in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u125	I would still like to ask about the question of the projected average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy. As I understand it, in this project this amount is PLN 5,000 88. What was she like? 'Cause I don't remember anymore. In the original budget submission, which is the one we prepared when we were making a balanced budget? And is this a realistic valuation in the light of what has happened, the economic slowdown associated with the pandemic? Is this 5,000 88 PLN realistic forecast of this average gross remuneration? All the more so because, let's say, this is an important factor, which is also part of the various other calculations that later apply to pay systems and derivatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This amount we're talking about is as realistic as possible. She's just a prognosis right now, because to her... I understand what you mean by the senator, for example. certain rates, contributions are calculated in relation to this average remuneration. But it must also be reflected in a communication, and these messages are usually until November last year. And as far as the amount was concerned before, I think that Minister Chalupa will complete my statement and pass on this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u128	Thank you, Minister. Would the Minister like to complete the Minister's statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u129	Of course. As far as the average gross remuneration in the economy is concerned, it was assumed that it was PLN 5,000 227, and in the novel it is PLN 5 thousand 88. [[So it's gone down.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes, it has decreased.]] It's decreased, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u130	Thank you very much. Senator, I understand he's happy now. I ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u131	With one question, I will return to the Minister's earlier reply. I am watching the situation in Belarus and, of course, we are all concerned about it, and we also have some hopes for it. Alexander Milinkiewicz, mentioned by me, is one of our very valuable friends in Belarus. I also value him very much personally. And I have to say that you have bothered me with the answer that you have not heard of this initiative. Of course I believe you haven't heard. But it's not an initiative this year, it takes a few years. Alexander Milinkiewicz spoke with several people, including ministers at the Prime Minister's office, and spoke with ministers. That's why I'm going to ask this question a little differently, linking them to a certain appeal. Because bounced from door to door is, of course, not very good practice. It happens, unfortunately. But it seems to me that today we should be particularly sensitive to what is happening in Belarus and what can happen, and such a form of help would be extremely valuable here. I know that this type of project in some sense was to be financed as a grant to Kalinowski's programme at the Eastern European Study of the University of Warsaw or through the Senate, but the decision, this source, to make these funds... It is, as I recall, an amount of about 80 and 100 thousand, so it is not a large amount, but it would now give the initiative a chance to be launched. This is the last moment. So once again I ask for support, for possible willingness to support, but I also appeal to the Minister simply for interest in this matter, to put a dot over and, in short, to allow this undertaking to be launched here in Poland. The second question is detailed. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President... Already last year, declarations were made, this year they were reinforced, concerning support for a new project, an extremely valuable oncology centre in Wrocław. This investment should start next year, but some funds should be in the budget this year. Have they been there yet or not? Is this gonna be next year? And how much at the end of the day are we talking about? Let me remind you that the amounts were falling, divided between the Marshal's office and the government... It was $500 million. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u132	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will appeal to this appeal as much as possible. Allow me to be in touch with the senator, learn more about the assumptions of this program and pay particular attention to it. Belarus is in orbit of interest and support for our foreign policy and the Prime Minister. As for the second question, the Minister of Health would rather be responsible here. From what I remember, it appears that such a multi-annual programme was proceded and adopted in the summer, autumn of this year, I think that the programme concerning the oncology centre in Wrocław was adopted by the Council of Ministers. If it is adopted by the Council of Ministers, the means for it are certainly there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u134	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u135	Hello, can we hear you? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Yes, yes, we can hear you.]] Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have two brief questions for the Minister. The first one is so... In view of the fact that I just heard on TV that Minister Czarnek is planning a salary increase for teachers, also next year, my question is: have you taken into account the increase planned by Minister Czarnek for teachers in the increase in the subsidy you were talking about? I can't remember exactly, there was probably 2.3 billion zlotys, if I'm not mistaken. That's my question. The second question generally concerns local investment and the state of local government. Indeed, the Self-Government Investment Fund has caused budgets in local governments to be balanced, so it has been in many local governments, but with the second covid hit, local governments may not stand. Are you planning any extra money to support local governments? This year has survived, but another year can be very difficult. And there's that kind of attention to all of you. When we talk about the money that goes to the government, first of all to invest, we must always remember that these are gross amounts. Self-governments pay VAT, which is part of the money back to the state budget. So we're talking about a little bit of other money. But it's just a suggestion. So my question is, did you predict new increases in the education grant? It's just that last year, for example, the money you spent on raising wages... They went to the budgets this year, and the local governments had to raise since 1 September last year. It could be similar this year. To sum up, is there a $2 billion $300 million in this amount, if I'm not mistaken, and if so, correct, the raises that Minister Czarnek was talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u136	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I don't know what you're saying. Minister Czarnek on teacher raises. I can say that the measures referred to by the senator include the effects of the increases which entered into force on 1 September this year. As regards the second case and the possible shield, support for entrepreneurs, as I said, we are at the moment of dividing the second additional tranche of over 6 billion for local government units. We're gonna monitor the situation, and if we need to, then... we're gonna watch and we can't rule out further shields, just like some of the lockdown industries. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that after half a year the units of local government together showed an operating surplus of PLN 17.9 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u138	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u139	Thank you very much. Minister, I have information that, with regard to part 84 of the European Union's own resources, we have information that, in connection with the adoption by the Council and the European Parliament of the amending budgets to the general budget of the European Union, which affect the conversion of contributions paid by the Member States, there has been a change. It is about PLN 2 billion allocated to complement the contribution to the European Union budget. I have a question: how much will this membership contribution paid to the European Union budget be in 2020?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u140	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! According to our estimates, perhaps not yet definitive, the total contribution would amount to PLN 24 billion 800 million. It would be such a government of magnitude, including those measures that you said the senator was talking about, plus additional resources, those around 1 billion 200 million, which result from an increase in the European Union's budget correction in relation to the COVID countermeasures. So that would be $24.8 billion in total.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u142	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Entrepreneurs received an injection of money from the government during the pandemic. And that was a really good move. This helped protect them from massive bankruptcy. Now companies need to improve liquidity. And there's no need for major surgeries here. It goes on for example. to speed up the return of basically their money that they have frozen, e.g. VAT refund. Currently, they receive a refund within 60 days, but on the pretext of verification this waiting time is increasing. Is it possible to shorten this deadline to 15 days? Those are the suggestions from the market. The next issue is unlocking the split payment funds, because here are another debt. The point is that it is now settled after 90 days and can you shorten this time to 20 days. Are you talking about these problems in the ministry or about the proposal of a cash settlement method, i.e. the imposition of a tax obligation only when the company receives payment from the contractor? This would also help the economy to bounce back from the bottom during the crisis so long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u144	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The shield also includes elements of liquidity support, such as the PFR subsidy and the Bank Gospodarcza Gospodarstwa Krajowego liquidity guarantee fund. According to my knowledge, the data shows that companies now have liquidity. Nevertheless, with regard to the elements that the senator was talking about, I think that the National Tax Administration, the Minister of the House, would be more appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u146	Thank you very much. I inform you that this was the last question to the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Still Minister of the House...]] Oh, and the minister. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u147	In relation to the senator's question, of course, I will say that the National Tax Administration is looking at the situation in the field, and it also checks how entrepreneurs with tax heads cooperate and ask for specific support, deferment of payments, distribution of payments into instalments. We also want to look at this in our activities, in terms of systems, so that we can automatically refund VAT, speed up these refunds so that the non-cash taxpayer can get this tax refund, for example. within 15 days. So there are a lot of different programs that are going on and ideas about how to remedy this situation for entrepreneurs, about the National Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u148	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that in discussions on this bill, senators are not allowed to submit applications for rejection. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his quite patient and quite comprehensive answers to our questions. The subject of the budget is extremely important, extremely crucial and it is important that it be taken extremely seriously. This was not always the case with the government's response, so that all the more so thank you. I want to divide my speech into three parts today. The first part will be dedicated to local governments and local authorities. Today we assume in the amendment help for these local governments. She has a 2-part layout: on one side It is an educational subsidy, on the other hand, aid for health care. There, of course, is the participation of the local government. And I want to start with that. I was the president of Wroclaw, I went through time to get Wroclaw out of a serious financial crisis, we had a flood, which means disaster... Maybe not the scale of the pandemic, but just the misery. I would never allow myself to hide from this misfortune by bringing Wroclaw into any more trouble. Today we have the following situation. Local governments are losing their PIT, losing their CIT, and, unfortunately, also losing their income due to the management of their own assets. This property consists of restaurants, clubs, also facilities in which fitness clubs, gyms, etc. operate, I will not exchange all this. There's casualties everywhere. If local governments want, can they help these entities... They should be off rent rates, rent rates, etc. In this matter, they have been deprived of real help, and loss in this matter means the problems of large groups of residents. For me, it is very important for the government to keep in touch with local governments, especially to respond to such situations. The basic situation is so bad that we had some underestimation in the educational grant itself, without pandemics. I am aware that the rules have changed, and therefore the entire subsidy as a subsidy is not intended to cover all the costs of the functioning of education, but if we look at these increased revenues at PIT or CIT at a certain stage, and here we note the losses... It is naturally in the education subsidy that we have a giant, enlarged gap. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education in recent years, instead of building a platform for digital education from real events, took care of the liquidation of junior high schools. Effectively, unfortunately. And today we have a situation that something that worked well and has a chance that... These were smaller groups, separate buildings, that was a certain division of groups of young people, which the ministry and government are currently doing, for those up to the 10th, 12th and older. This division was de facto deleted by eliminating middle school. Today we see what a serious flaw it was in terms of response capabilities, pandemic protection, but also in the field of remote education for all particular groups of young people or children. I pay attention to this because it is extremely severe, important, theoretically not related to the pandemic, but it was during the pandemic that a gigantic weakness appeared in this matter. When it comes to educational subsidies, an immediate response is needed. It is not enough just to use a specific algorithm to help local governments Reasonable decisions are needed to cover the costs that local governments have incurred so far, also as a result of the pandemic itself. I would stress: not only as a result of the pandemic itself. What's important to me when it comes to self-government? We are comparing today's debate on the budget with the debate on the financial condition of local governments. Because local governments do not participate in bonds of the State Treasury, they cannot perform movement, notabene good traffic... Here I would like to commend the government for making a move with the National Bank of Poland For early redemption of bonds. This reduced the cost of handling them. This unfortunate discussion, which took place in the Chamber, was so imprecise that the question was wrongly formulated and then the wrong answer to that question was answered. But in general, the movement associated with Treasury bonds should be assessed positively. However, local authorities do not have the possibility to use certain market circumstances to reduce their financial burdens, e.g. with certain pasts, including debts. The second thing, too, is very important. Well, local governments do not have reserves in gold, nor do they have the possibility of not amending the budget for such a long time, i.e. from February to today. They may not use external institutions which do not fall within the scope of the budget. They had to update their budgets. I watch Wroclaw, Katowice and Poznań and I see the local government killing themselves with further tenders, because it has to be done in the form of an invitation to tender. Well, it's about covering debts, current liabilities. These current obligations must be checked, they must be calculated, and this also shows the condition of local authorities. In my opinion, And that's what I want to put in the case of the first most important point. If the local authorities do not get adequate and quite rapid assistance, the investments that are being carried out by them and for which European funds have already been prepared will begin. In my opinion, this support should take place in November. December, and the support announced for the following year must also be adequate. The second part of my speech is mainly related to the effects of inconsistent, inadequate responses to the pandemic. We were dealing with the closure of forests and parks, and even music clubs were open at the same time. There was a time when the theatres were closed and stadiums were opened. The stadiums are closed today, and the theatres are still open. And so it changes all the time, and the cost of all these activities I'm talking about activity in quotes. Unfortunately, they fall most often on heads of artistic institutions, heads of sports clubs, bosses or owners of individual facilities. What do I want to appeal for? Apart from the next sad examples, I will say that we need to be ahead of time, we need to look at this pandemic so as to anticipate the situation so that all these actors, including local governments, know more about such steps. This will result in costs lower than those incurred when decisions relating to restrictions are learned from day to day or almost from day to day. The last case concerns companies of the State Treasury. Of course, I am sadly observing the falling value of companies on the stock market, and I am saddened at the poorer condition of the stock market itself. I am aware that this is not so much a world trend as a European phenomenon, but also a world phenomenon. However, I miss the response to this situation. One entity actually made a big deal out of allegro bonds. But that obviously doesn't do it. I remember the plans of our stock exchange to become the owner of the stock exchange in Budapest, as well as the stock exchanges in other countries. These stock exchanges were weaker, and their takeover was supposed to strengthen our position. I am fully aware that those areas we do not attach to today maybe too much importance And we're supposed to tie it up. They are, in short, the property of Poles, of society. Therefore, it is worth to be active in this matter so that these indicators actually improve. And one last remark. I was a little worried about the lack of an answer to my question about VAT, about whether this VAT gap is actually growing. I think, in a pandemic state, in such a serious crisis, we need to know pretty quickly what the financial situation is so that we can react efficiently. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, because after the end of the questions I received information that there is a chance to support the initiative of Mr Aleksandr Milinkiewicz to launch this Belarusian university. His activity will, of course, be conducted in remote mode. These modest means are supposed to be written down here, they're in this bill, and I want to thank you for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u151	Thank you very much. Can I have it on the spot? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please, of course.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make a brief reference to this. It is likely that cultural issues are not the most important in these budgetary discussions, but because there is a new investment here, which is to be a several-year government project, i.e. building a centre of European culture in Toruń... This investment is not quite unexpected, but I think that the fact of finding money for it at such a difficult time should raise questions, as should not include it in the budget for next year, but only include those 32 million zlotys that are to be spent this year. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because Minister Gliński, which I would like to stress once again, does not come to the invitation of the Committee on Culture, and we wanted to talk to the Minister, with the Deputy Prime Minister, about the investment plans for this term of office, including the plans to complete the investment from the previous term. Because when it comes to construction and new investments, it's not so good so far. I would like to remind you of the construction of the Museum of History of Poland, which we are all waiting for, a moving construction. Anyway, the little thing about her being moved, but the budget has also been changed many times, and it's already growing to enormous proportions. But we're gonna try to evaluate it at the end. This is not a museum of the Ministry of Culture, but a museum of the Battle of Warsaw I'm afraid it's already a disgrace. This Museum of the Battle of Warsaw is not the responsibility of the Minister, we cannot ask the Minister of Culture about it, but I am asking some colleagues from the Committee on National Defence to finance it, these costs, these delays, these changed construction plans, projects, etc. They asked the Minister of National Defence. And above all, they asked about these delays, because it is a shame, because it was supposed to be a cherry on the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle. So that I pay attention to this. We will try to invite Minister Gliński to the meeting of the cultural committee and ask how it happens, however, that such a huge amount was found, i.e., I remind you, 400 million from the budget. Investments are always enjoyable, but as Senator Szejnfeld said, when there are any problems at home, we try to reduce investment spending and spend this money primarily... In the current cultural situation, they should go to the aid of culture at all. And her situation is dramatic right now. To our offices, also to the Committee on Culture, authors come to us, highlighting the dramatic situation in cultural industries, in some sectors. Although the government is really trying and has mobilised this aid, it is not enough. And let me remind you that this applies to a huge crowd of people who work in cultural industries, cultural institutions, and actually feel these effects. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, as well as other industries, but they should not be forgotten. So if we don't have enough money to help, it's worth it. I would like to draw this attention to think, think about and particularly explore the start-up of new giant investments. Because this Toruń investment is a long-term investment, it's a dozen thousand square meters, it's really a huge institution. I remind you that it is made with a private foundation actually based on one man, no longer his name, it is a person who has been operating for years in Bydgoszcz and now works in Toruń. So that's the person who... I think this is about the fact that the buildings will stay for Torun, because I don't really believe that this investment will be implemented so quickly. So once again, the appeal to the Committee on National Defence, to look at the construction of the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw and to pay attention not only when the funds are being mobilised, but also when they are not implemented on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about my opinion on the revision of the budget for 2020. Previously, I presented the position of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and such a report always limits the possibility of expressing an individual opinion. As rapporteur, I should present everything that the senators, members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, have said. By the way, I'm making two amendments. One is the proposal to reduce the deficit of the state budget. I am not proposing some major, radical change, although it is likely that this year's deficit could be significantly reduced, because what I have said in my report clearly shows that a large part of the planned expenditure financed from the budget deficit will not be spent this year. However, I consciously do not touch on these big proposals covering a total of almost PLN 100 billion, but I refer in this proposal to small expenses, small because of the budget, but large from the point of view of the individual citizen. They concern measures provided for the National Radio and Television Council, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland and in a small section of the Treasury debt service. Why did I pay attention to these offices? Because expenditure planned in the revision of the budget law, i.e. expenditure that should be implemented by the end of this year, is not development, development, investment, is rather related to expenditure on administration and various other programmes, other than development programmes. That's one amendment. The second amendment is an amendment which, in part, is described by the request of a minority of our budget committee, but is otherwise fulfilling the objectives set out there. I propose that we create a new special reserve here so that the necessary 700 million zlotys can be placed in this special reserve. This reserve could be settled with the general budget of the European Union and, at the same time, the resources from that reserve would be earmarked for the handling of the Treasury debt. That's what I'm making. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to a more general problem. Today we are talking about amending the budget law. We are talking about an amendment in a situation of major crisis in which Poland's economy and other economies were found. It is worth recalling here the crisis of the years 2008 to 2009, the crisis of the first decade, which was a very serious crisis. Today in Poland, few people remember him, maybe because we managed to get through that crisis with a dry leg. However, Poland was indeed an exception in terms of the crisis 2008-2009. Most European countries, but also other countries around the world, including the United States, have had a very difficult time going through that crisis. After all, salaries or pensions in the public sector, for example in the Baltic countries, were reduced by 30%. In many countries, the effects of this crisis have not yet been achieved. To be honest, even we in Poland have some of the effects of the crisis from 2008 to 2009 and we need to remember that we have gone through this huge crisis that has affected public finances, banks and so on. We did it. I'm sure of it. Because of the prudent, reasonable, wise government policy and the good attitude of the banks at that time. This crisis has survived, but the problems have been great. There was also an increase in unemployment, an increase in the budget deficit, etc. The effects of that period were not so dramatic, apart from the effects of unemployment, felt by citizens. After all, we have introduced an increase in VAT from 22% to 23% for a transitional period. The increase record expired at the end of 2014, but later it was maintained by the new governing majority. It is worth remembering this when talking about today's crisis. It's just worth learning from the past. Today's present is of course different, but then it was also considered... It is now worth considering the actions that the government in Poland then took and what other governments took in the fight against this powerful and unpredictable crisis. Speaking of amending the budget... I don't know if you Senators remember, but at the beginning of the pandemic, when the first ideas were coming up on how to finance the fight against the coronavirus, I pointed out that it was necessary immediately, even then, in May, to revise the budget of 2020. I didn't say that because I'm incredibly smart, and I know it in a special way. I watched other people do it, especially our neighbors on the west side, Germany. The first law that involved the fight against the coronavirus was... Well, maybe not the first one, but it was in the first setup block. It was a revision of the budget law. She relied on it... Parliament has shown what changes they can make, how much they can spend on fighting the coronavirus. And I said then that we should act similarly, that we should tell the citizens, our countrymen, how much we can allocate to the fight against the coronavirus. The other way was chosen. The way to finance this fight was chosen through non-budget measures, i.e. without public control, without the control of citizens. I believe it was a bad maneuver, such action through PFR or Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego etc. Of course, this could be done by such institutions, but it is strongly convinced that all this should be specified in the state budget, so that citizens know that we spend so much money, so much money to fight the coronavirus and that this money will have to be returned someday. Notice that in the revision of the budget that we are adopting today, probably with some minor amendments... As I said, we do not want to break down what the government proposes in this amendment, but I note that we accept all of this in such a way that we do not see the resources that are really meant to fight the coronavirus, they are largely outside the budget. And yet that will be the burden of all of us and our successors. This is the amount of at least PLN 200 billion today. I don't really know, because it's never been said in public. And it seems to me that this is a fundamental, elementary mistake that is being made in this case, that everything has just been put into a decision, not a parliament, not a parliamentary majority... I understand that the opposition always has less to say in such matters, but it fits... This is a decision not quite made in the government. A lot of things that we... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please...]] ...have adopted the budget bill earlier, it was... The government's ability to act was based on various laws related to the fight against COVID. Finally, I want to say just enough to close this matter slowly, that it seems to me that it is simply a mistake, a mistake, absolutely a mistake, that we are proposing a deficit of the state budget this year at the level of PLN 109 billion. I'm sure the performance will be much smaller. And the government, especially the Minister of Finance, are probably also convinced that there will be less But you should simply introduce real amounts of expenditure. They should not be imagined. And saying that they're being moved for the next year... So, in fact, this deficit of the financial year is supposed to prove politically that the rulers managed to reduce the budget deficit, firstly, because we planned for 109 billion PLN and secondly, in a non-transparent way to move with these expenditures next year. And that's the mistake. That's the mistake that's gonna take revenge for a long time on what's going on with the coronavirus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, to be honest, would like to take a bit of a stand for President Kleina, who was called to order by Marshal Borusewicz, as the government, the Ministry of Finance, praised at the very beginning... [[There's no need to defend yourself.]] But to be honest, I don't know if these amendments have come forward to be credible in front of their colleagues. I say this with some sarcasm, because making amendments for the idea of making amendments is also missing the goal. I listened to the President's submission of these amendments, and I am not able to address them all from memory. And the one that concerns the National Radio and Television Council, I think, as I recall, 15 million PLN... [[That's a lot.]] It's with the budget, with the tens of billions, that there's some marginal expense that was previously planned. And the minister explained this expenditure very much at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. As for the others, regarding the CBA and the Intelligence Agency, I am unable to recall the amounts we are talking about here. That's the first line. The second point is that I also find it difficult to address this amendment, which was intended to complement the minority proposal. I'd just have to read it in order to relate to it. But I have the impression that this is on this principle: in total, the minority amendment makes sense, but we can't support it, so we'll come up with almost the same amendment. I want it to be ours, just a different phrase. Assuming the idea is the same, I think... because if we're talking about the 700 million zlotys of debt savings, I think it's the same thing. After all, this amendment generally served a certain flexibility of the Ministry of Finance in spending money. Because if we have to pay any contributions or commitments to the European Union, then the last political formation, I suspect, which will want to block this issue, is the Civic Platform. But it's just for the record. There's gonna be a committee meeting, and we're gonna see how these amendments physically look. And going back to this budget revision... That's what you've been talking about, Minister. The plan was that, after four years of good rule of law and justice, good governance, which translated into macroeconomic indicators, this year's budget should be created, and this budget was proposed for the first time in 30 years without budget deficits, which was the dream of many finance ministers, many economists, including many politicians. And it's been realized. The budget was adopted without a deficit. Everyone could see what the expenses were, what the income was. Well, unfortunately, he came in March COVID, which no one in the world expected, and that's all I'm going to say, he plowed. He plowed the budgets of companies, households, local governments, but also as a consequence of the state budget. After all, it wasn't someone else, it was opposition politicians who demanded support. Probably the right thing to do. Well, Mr. Chairman made such an analogy until 2008. It was a completely different crisis. I'm not saying it's easier, because he was very serious too, all the crises that affect the financial world are very dangerous today. But it wasn't a crisis that shuts down the economy for a few weeks like today's crisis. This one turned it off in March, and if we continue to approach the restrictions irresponsiblely, even if through these marches, perhaps we will have 20 to 30 thousand infections. daily and you will need to introduce such a total lockdown for 2, 3 weeks, which will, of course, have dramatic consequences for the economy. Now the government faced this dilemma and, listening to the expectations of entrepreneurs, local governments, etc., etc., began to help. But it costs money. It is a good thing that we had a balanced budget planned, because it enabled us to afford this 109 billion-dollar deficit. Is he gonna be smaller? Even a few days ago, I would have even agreed with President Kleina that this deficit would probably be less than 109 billion, because let us remember that there is always this maximum expenditure or maximum debt threshold in the budget, because that is the essence of the budget, but now I do not know what will happen for the next few weeks until the end of the year. If some black scenarios were to come true, I would not say that this deficit will not be fully realised, and from day to day this situation is becoming increasingly difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr President said was that he liked it, he did not like why the revision of the budget so late, why certain expenditures are outside the budget... Well, there are all kinds of techniques. Why are there spending outside the budget? We would probably be able to find a lot of arguments, even if there is such an argument that we have some greater flexibility in spending these funds. However, the Polish Development Fund has been very successful in preparing these shields. If it were money from the budget, there would be various restrictions on spending such funds, and having these funds in the Polish Development Fund, we have a great ease of spending and directing these funds to the needy entrepreneurs. These shields are widely praised because they have worked well in practice. Of course, there are legal conditions. Let us remember that there is a debt threshold in the Constitution, there is a law on public finances, there are many rules and it was more practical to get some help out of the budget framework for entrepreneurs. And let's remember what the target was in March. In March, this goal was to protect jobs. And it worked. Today, after these few months with COVID probably the biggest success is that unemployment did not explode in Poland, that we maintained jobs and thus maintained the income of Poles and Poles. What's next? We'll see, because the situation is dynamic. A further comment on the statements of Senator Zdrojewski, who spoke about local governments. Yeah, it's just gone, it's been distributed, and by the end of September, I remember it was to apply for another 6 billion, which means the local government got 12 billion. And, of course, if the applications are submitted on 30 September, before they are considered, measures divided, naturally... [[That's a lot of...]] ...investments must move on to next year, but this will also allow local governments to shape next year's budgets, because they have this money guaranteed already today in this budget. There has also been a repeated allegation that some expenditure in this revision of the budget, which will be financed from the deficit, will be expenditure next year. [[There's no need to defend...]] And that was the charge. No, in my opinion, this should not be an accusation, because I would say so, if budget managers know that they have certain money guaranteed next year, it will facilitate the investment process, make it easier for them to operate and make it easier for them to plan various kinds of budgets. So what I thought was supposed to be a charge, in my opinion, is even, I would say, a kind of asset. And even as Mr Kleina said, 'Cause it's hard to deny the fact that most of this money, except for quite large funds for the Social Insurance Fund, which is de facto for the Social Security Office, is money for investments. Well, if it's the money that's being questioned to the Ministry of National Defense. After all, they do not go to raises, only to buy military equipment in Polish arms factories, and thus, help Polish companies, help Polish companies that are in the industry. If they're going to the railroad, it's not like we're doing anything on this railroad, it's just... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Yeah, I'm almost done. ...They could survive Polish Railway Lines PKP, and this will also create some kind of demand in Poland. And one last thing, a summary like that, because your marshal is already reprimanding me... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Because it's been 10 minutes.]] Okay, I'm done. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u156	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate has become an interesting discussion about how to respond to the crisis, the covid crisis that has affected our country, the response to the crisis, which is, after all, a health crisis, is also an economic crisis, has not yet become a crisis of state finances, but the envisaged scenarios for the development of epidemics, pandemics can bring many challenges. This response to the crisis that the government has adopted is an unprecedented, innovative response and for emphasising what I thank Senator Kleina, the pro-investment response. This unprecedented response and innovation stem from how non-budgetary institutions are involved in efforts to overcome the effects of the crisis. The fact that we have the involvement of the Polish Development Fund, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, created, opened up opportunities to intervene, for the first time in Poland's history, from the National Bank of Poland. It allowed the National Bank of Poland to be involved in financing monetary, financial needs to combat the consequences of the crisis. In other countries, central banks have this possibility directly, we have a number of limitations here, and therefore we owe the highest recognition to the leadership of the National Bank of Poland, which has made such a decision about innovative engagement and commitment at the right time and in the right way. Senator Klein, commenting on whether or not referring to this way of responding to the crisis... I also thank you very much for raising the level of debate, Mr Senator, because it is undoubtedly important to draw attention to some of the methods that we are adopting in Poland in the fight against the problem of the covid crisis. Senator Klein pointed to the German solutions, criticizing... or perhaps otherwise, presenting another philosophy, one which was applied by Germany, the prior adoption of changes in the budget, and only then the placement of funds, i.e. predictions, how much it would take to fight the COVID. Not that the Germans had such a secret knowledge, but the necessity was due to the structure of their budget, the construction, the way in which the German budget was built, the federal state. In Poland there was no such necessity, we could adopt a principle which was adopted very widely in the European Union, which actually boils down to the statement made by the head of the European Central Bank, Mr Mario Draghi. Well, when he was asked what action he was going to take to fight the eurozone crisis, he said, "Whatever it takes, that is: I will do everything I need to do. The government did everything it had to do with innovative, courageous solutions. Now it brings us an amendment of the budget, which is a summary of these actions, but it also gives us a deficit stock for future periods, and this stock is very much needed, because we are talking about another wave of pandemics. The answer that the government adopted in the covid crisis could be compared with actions that were the answer to another crisis, the financial crisis, the financial sector to which the PO-PSL government responded. Let me remind you that the answer that Minister Rostowski gave at the time was a completely different answer. This was not a pro-investment response, brave, looking for new solutions, it was an answer consisting in cuttings, freezing, actually referring to the historical statement of Minister Rostowski that there is no money and there will be no money. So when assessing the actions that the government has been conducting over the last six months, we need to keep in mind the differences between our political system, in Poland and systems in other countries, but we should also remember that there were other answers possible, for example. like the one Minister Rostowski used to give. At the end of my speech I would like to thank the management of the National Bank of Poland, President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, President of the Polish Development Fund, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, people who struggle tirelessly to keep jobs in Poland, fighting for bread for Polish families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u158	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Are you the senator? There's no senator. For the record, the senators: Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz, Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka, Benjamin Godyla presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Ryszard Świlski, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka. One more question about the questions before the discussion. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Aleksandr Swede, Joanna Sekuła... Aleksandra Swede, Barbara Zdrojewska and Jadwiga Rotnicka. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on... Oh, one more thing, I'm sorry. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Marshal, no, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u159	Communication: The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 17th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Budget Law for 2020, Senate printing No 225, will take place today, half an hour after the announcement of the adjournment in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u160	I'm ordering a recess until 8:30. After the break, the vote will take place. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 56 to 20 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u161	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Law amending the budget law for 2020. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 225 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance, after considering amendments to the Law amending the Budget Law for 2020, recommends the adoption of the proposals contained in paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-27-senat-17-2.u163	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were made by Mrs Gabriel Morawska-Stanka, Mr Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Mr Kazimierz Kleina, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz and Mr Ryszard Świlski. In addition, Senator Krzysztof Froz was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment No 1 increases the current expenditure of the budgetary units by PLN 2 billion in the part of health in the chapter "Health policy programmes" and by PLN 3 billion in the part "general subsidy for local government units" in the chapter "Educational part of the general subsidy for local government units" at the expense of a reduction of the total budget reserve by PLN 2 billion 10 million and of capital expenditure on national defence by PLN 2 billion 990 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's hope that it'll still be normal... [[Voice from the hall: Hope dies last.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There were 96 senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment No 2 consists in reducing expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt by PLN 700 million and allocating this amount to the service of the Treasury debt under the Reserve for projects co-financed by the European Union budget and non-refundable aid, the clearance of programmes and projects financed by these funds, and the clearance with the general budget of the European Union. The amendment also changes the name of this reserve in such a way that it also includes the handling of the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 43 were in favour, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 3 aims to create a new special-purpose reserve, called the European Solidarity Centre, with grants and subsidies of PLN 1 million, at the expense of the special-purpose reserve for systemic changes and certain organisational changes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 4 aims to create a new special-purpose reserve, called the State Treasury's debt management measures, and to supplement the appropriations for the settlement with the general budget of the European Union for own resources, with the amount of expenditure on the service of the Treasury's debt of PLN 300 million and the European Union's own resources of PLN 400 million, at the expense of a reduction by this amount of expenditure on the service of the Treasury's debt in part 79. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 5 reduces the total amount of state budget expenditure and the government budget deficit by PLN 100 million at the expense of a reduction of PLN 15 million for the National Radio and Television Council, the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 14 million 600 thousand, the Internal Security Agency by PLN 10 million, the Interview Agency by PLN 10 million, the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland by PLN 500 000 and the service of the Treasury debt by PLN 50 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] Eight minutes to vote. It's a big success. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the budget law for 2020. No messages? There isn't. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. At the same time, I inform you that at 12.00 in a modest manner, dictated by epidemiological rules, an exhibition will be opened on the implementation of the Year of Physics under the leadership of Senator Professor Wind. I'm calling a recess until 10:00. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 39]]
