ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the Secretaries, please take your designated seats. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote, which aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please activate the machines and surrender any voice to confirm presence. I'm asking you to apply... There's another one coming. One more. Good. It's the one against it. Aye, aye, aye, aye, He'll hold off. I vote against evil. Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. I state that 74 senators took part in the vote. [[Voting No 37]] We assume that there are so many people attending the session at the moment. I assume this number will have an upward trend. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: a second reading of the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality with the law at the time of the epidemic. and consider it as point sixteenth; second reading of the draft law amending the law. Code of Criminal Procedure and consider it as item 17 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Marshal Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! I object. on paragraph 16, on the extension of the agenda to include a draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality before the law at the time of the epidemic. As Senators of Law and Justice, we have been opposed to this resolution from the very beginning. It is deeply demagogical, presenting a situation that does not exist. This is a play. purely political. There are statements that are very damaging to the Polish state. I believe that we should not introduce this item under the plenary session of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u3	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a negative motion, arguing this in only one sentence. If all that will be raised in the discussion and is included in this resolution is not true, then you will defend the truth in the discussion. Don't worry. The truth will always come out. I therefore propose that we vote in favour so that we can discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u5	One for, one against... But he was your marshal. No, no... This is... As you know, this point in the Rules of Procedure was interpreted so that it was to be one vote in favour and one vote against. I tabled two resolutions, and the opposition was against one resolution, and therefore the vote for this one resolution was also valid. Because I would like to remind you that I would like to add two points to the agenda. The second point is the second reading of the draft law on amending the law I understand you're not objecting to this. No. Okay, now we're clear. Since there is opposition, we are voting on my proposal to supplement the order with a second reading of the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality with the law at the time of the epidemic and to consider this item as item 16 of the agenda. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I see there are still remote senators logged in, which is why I'm slowing down a little bit... Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 44 for, 37 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] The item was placed on the agenda. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 125, and the report is published in print No 125 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u6	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am pleased to present today a report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Committee on the draft resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic. I do so on behalf of myself and the chairman of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. On 22 May, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media to consider it at first reading. The committees at the joint meeting on 26 May considered the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. The committee's resolution was adopted by a majority. I would now like to read you a draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Sensat of the Republic of Poland, monuments of bitter experiences from the times when fundamental freedoms and human rights were violated in our Homeland, wishing to guarantee civil rights, and actions of public institutions to ensure reliability, calls on the National Council of Radio and Television, the National Media Council and the management of the Polish Television SA and Polish Radio SA to ensure full objectivity, equality and integrity in presenting candidates in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Citizens, through their statutory subscription fees and from the state budget, provide the public media with a privileged position on the pluralist electronic media market. At the same time, this position, through the appointment of the authorities of the National Council of Radio and Television, the National Media Council, as well as television and radio companies, favours the politicisation and submission of the media of public political power. In free Poland, despite many attempts, it was not possible to introduce a model that ensured full independence and protection of journalism standards to public media, especially in the information and publication segment. However, there are principles and universal values resulting from the constitution and standards generally adopted, the relevant democratic states and the democratic position of free media. And these principles must be followed. In recent years, a party propaganda tool has been made up of public media. You don't respect the principles of reliable journalism. There is a lack of diversity of views and evaluations of current events. People and social groups are under attack, information messages are of a valuable nature and are conducive to only one option. Culture, with its most outstanding figures and works, was pushed into the margin. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expects and calls on the institutions of the state to respect all voters regardless of their views and to respect citizens' rights, and in particular care about the truthfulness of public media transmissions. The election period is always the most important state test. The election campaign in public media must be objective and respectful of constitutional and statutory records. This is the text of the draft resolution. Today, perhaps in a moment, the Presidential elections will be announced, so I think that we have come to work on such a resolution at a good time. I also think, hopefully, this resolution will go to the audience. By taking it, we will also pay attention to the importance of the media, especially when it comes to the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Presidential elections take place once every five years. We want this moment to be respected also by public media, which is why we are talking about fairness, about equality, about the objectivity of public media, which should be guided by special care, especially during the election period. I ask the High Senate to take a favourable look at the draft resolution presented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to represent them. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka, who is in room 182, to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Yeah, I can see that. The first question you ask is Senator Rafał the locksmith, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u8	Dear Marshal, am I heard? Yes. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Senator, The draft resolution enters into a very delicate area, the contact between media and politics, additionally in critical for these areas of the moment of election. I recall an event from a recent time, very drastic in this context, namely when a candidate for a presidential candidate threatened the public media, stating that you rush to ask questions, and to a public television journalist he also addressed in the form of a certain intimidation, saying the name and function. My question is: was this draft resolution inspired by this event? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u9	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u10	Thank you. No, Mr. Senator, he was not inspired by this event. But he was inspired by what's been going on in public media for several years since television was taken over by changing the law that introduced the National Media Council. This is how the public media took over the current option. And right now we're actually dealing with an unprecedented situation, i.e. with the situation when public media, the entire management of these media, Polish Television, Polish Radio, are controlled by one option. And since you're asking for inspiration, I'm going to say that the cultural committee is very thorough... this appeal is the result of several years of work of the cultural committee, even in the previous term of office. But also during this term of office we held not only the last meeting of the committee at which we adopted the draft resolution, but also, on 3 February, a discussion with experts. We have listened to reports and opinions of non-governmental organisations and ombudsman. This was a discussion about the right to reliable information and public media. That was the title of this debate. She was very long, long hours. And actually, all the specialists who spoke on this issue, and the senators emphasized... have determined the state of public media and their credibility and in very radical words actually stated... Maybe I'll recall part of the committee's position. We then found in the media the replacement of objective and diverse information with messages that value and favour the sole interests of the governing party; acceptance and building of messages that divide Poles and introduce elements of hate speech to specific social groups and individuals; gross lack of impartiality and objectivity, especially during and during the electoral campaigns preceding them; lack of responsibility for the importance and importance of words that drive hatred in social media and in public space; disregard of generally accepted social standards and principles of responsible journalism; and the hostile narrative of the EU institutions, which undermines European agreements, including the will of our society adopted in the referendum. Those were the conclusions of our multi-hour debate. Once again, I would like to stress this. With the participation of experts and experts and ombudsman. Today I would add to that what we encountered in the meantime, i.e. An unprecedented attack on the Senate as an institution when we heard in the public media that we are a destructive entity. Such allegations were addressed not to specific persons or to a particular group, but to the Senate of the Republic of Poland in general, which is actually all of us. And I think that taking care of the dignity of the Senate was also one of the reasons for preparing this draft resolution. But above all, it is about the presidential elections, it is about ensuring the integrity of public media at this time. And I would like to remind you that at the committee meeting held on 3 February, we proved that public media are not reliable and objective. All the more so this integrity, this objectivity and equality of candidates presented during the election campaign are needed now when we are facing such unique elections of the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u11	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. There's a lot of people there to ask questions. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, at the meeting of the joint committee, I ask because it did not sound in the report. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, was there a motion to reject the resolution? That's the first question. Second question. The state in the resolution talks about the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Was there a reference to the 2015 presidential election at the committee meeting and were there statistics on what was the situation in the public media of the state of government in the years 2001 to 2015? Was it mentioned how many people on public television, how many journalists lost their jobs at the time? If so, how much?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u13	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u14	Senator, don't talk to me about your government, because I've never been in government, and I'm only a second term senator. So that I can't be held responsible for what happened in 2015. So don't generalize, because there are different senators here who have become senators at different times and actually become senators with different options. However, I will not refuse to answer your question. The question is formulated whether they were. Yes, indeed. Indeed, there was a request for rejection and statistics were also provided, but they were statistics on media access in 2015 as well as on the media at the moment. I'm gonna draw attention too, by the way, 'cause it might be worth pointing out that right now... As you said, in your government, that is to say the previous government of PO-PSL, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, which was the previous one, carried out research and monitoring of qualitative and quantitative programmes. The quantitative monitoring dealt with the airtime of individual political groups and individuals in electoral campaigns, and the qualitative monitoring assessed the message as to whether it was objective. So what if we're talking about someone in the media for 2 or 3 hours a day, for example. Are we putting him in a negative light? We've had examples of this many times. Every day, when we turn on the TV, we see a situation where, yes, we pay attention to someone, to a politician or a candidate, but it's only done in a negative context. So that these tests were done. Right now... We, at one of the meetings of the Committee on Culture, probably even several times, asked the National Council of Radio and Television to carry out such studies, and we got the answer that the National Council of Radio and Television does not have funds for such research, which is quite shocking because this type of research was always enough for money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u15	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, could I ask you a question? Well, there's a big line, Mr. Senator, but... Then write me up for the next question. That's the second time we're writing it down. Senator locksmith did a good job, too. The question is asked by Senator Professor Seweryński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u16	Senator, I share our concern for the integrity of the media, and I believe that it should be sought, not only during the presidential campaign, the elections, but always. Therefore, I would like to ask why this appeal In my opinion, in principle, it is right to take care of the integrity of the media It is addressed only to public media, why does criticism apply only to public media? Do the authors of this resolution feel that the non-public media are impeccable?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u17	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for the question, and thank you for sharing your concern for value in general, the sense of dealing with public media. May I remind you that our committee... All the media. Anything, yeah, anything. And the quality of the media. I remind you that our committee is the Committee on Culture and Media, and we are also dealing with other media, as the National Council of Radio and Television does. But in the last few years, there has been a completely extraordinary situation. Until now, public media have been paid by subscription to such subscription fees, including public, social, paid to the public and they have been transferred to television. For 3 years we have had a completely new situation, because a stream of public funds from the budget, amounting to almost PLN 4 billion, has been directed to public media. This year it was 2 billion. What does that mean? This means that the public media are financed not only from these danins, through subscription, but also directly from the budget, which means that they also have special obligations towards society, because they are financed by society. Of course, all of them... I agree with the senator that all the media in Poland should be able to do this. Follow the principles of integrity and journalistic ethics, objectivity, respect for various types of social groups. We know that it is an ideal that its implementation has never been successful and will not succeed, especially since some of the media in Poland, most of them, are in private hands. We don't have... Of course, we can appeal to these media, but we have no influence on them. Therefore, here, in this appeal, we do not refer either to the TVN station, nor to the Polsat station, nor to the Republic station, nor to the Television Trwam station. We simply believe that these are private media and they have the right to their own political lines, and they also have the right to views. Although I agree that journalistic integrity applies to all media. Now, back to why public media... This is also because of the position of public media on the market, on their established position, that it is also the most accessible medium, the most accessible to citizens, and therefore it is specific because of the use of land media. But once again, the main reason that this is an appeal to public media and that we are dealing with public media here is that these media are funded by public funds. And it's written in the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u19	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Senator, I personally took part in this debate, perhaps in February, which is very meaningful, and I must say that this debate and the people present during it clearly indicated what is happening when it comes to pressures and what should be done there, how it should be done... After listening to these speeches, there was no question of any integrity and freedom of journalism. My question is... I did not participate in this second debate, which took place and which was followed by the position presented here. Therefore, I have a question: whether people present, especially those who work in Polish media... Were such persons present during this meeting and did they have speeches? And in what spirit were the statements of the invited guests? Of course, tell me so briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u21	Yes. I regret to say that, unfortunately, we haven't always had these meetings devoted to the media. And they're referred to by a member of our committee's name... We don't do this for pleasure. We, as committee, simply have the duty to deal with these matters. Unfortunately, recently... Well, the lady here today from the National Radio and Television Council was also present at the committee meeting, but she was actually the only person in the community there. I must regret that at this last meeting, which seemed important to me, there was neither the Chairman of the National Council nor the Head of the National Media Council. Nor were they at a special meeting of the cultural committee, which was devoted to the situation in the Trinity, in the Third Programme of Polish Radio. Well, let me give you an example of the Three, because we, as a committee, have asked the National Media Council to dismiss the president of the Polish Radio and the head of the Three. I must say that I was astonished to discover that the answer that occurred yesterday wasn't even signed by... A very polite and polite handwriting, of course in accordance with all the rules, we received an answer. I'm the head of the committee. . Signed by a lawyer, advisor to the National Media Council. We are currently dealing with a situation that the National Media Council and President Czabański do not even reply to our letters, they only order lawyers to do so. This is the kind of situation. I am sorry to say this, because I remember that there have been meetings of the committee that we were able to discuss, where there was a conversation. We'll be talking about public media again in a minute. In answer to Senator Seweryński's question, I would like to remind you that the National Radio and Television Council is reporting to the Sejm and the Senate for a reason. We are obliged to deal also with what the National Radio and Television Council does. Nevertheless, I would like to stress once again that, while the National Media Council has an impact on public media positions, the National Radio and Television Council has virtually lost this influence. She can only judge right now. Well, if she wanted to, she could do some research, too. I would like to point out that the National Council is also examining complaints. I think that using the presence of her representative, we could ask how many complaints the National Radio and Television Council receives about public media. Besides, I'd like to say that Perhaps this will also prove to be important information for the senator, and for all of you, I have received a letter from the marshal. Our marshal, Mr. Marshal of the Senate, sent me a letter from the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. This letter concerns the accession to work on the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 13 December 2016, issued on the initiative of the Ombudsman and a group of Members. This judgment, which has long been passed, says that it is unconstitutional to exclude the participation of the National Radio and Television Council from the procedure for the filling of public broadcasting and television companies. It is therefore necessary to amend the provisions of the Radio and Television Act in this respect and to include the National Radio and Television Council in the procedures for the appointment and dismissal of public media authorities. It turned out that it was unconstitutional, as stated by the Court's judgment. Next week. Not in the nearest one, but in the next one there will be a meeting of the cultural committee, where we will be wondering whether to take such an initiative, such a resolution on the restoration of constitutional order in public media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is Senator Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to use the information. I ask the president, the Senator of the rapporteur, but also the representative of the National Radio and Television Council. The chairman of the Radia Szczecin Programme Board, calling the meeting of the Council, begins his letter to the members of the Programme Board in such a way: "I decided to accept Mr Witold Witkowski's proposal to use the conference room of Law and Justice at ul. Mickiewicz 69. Thus, the meeting of the Programme Board will take place here. In this very room (unless the fate of the payment of a prank and the result of something unexpected, then I will notify you of the changes). Something unexpected came up because the local press turned to the location of the programme council meeting. Therefore, Mr President This is not a secret knowledge, because it was announced on Facebook by him: "I like Jola Kowalewska from the Gazeta Wyborcza, but the title of the article before me literally knocked down: "The programming board of public Radio Szczecin is gathering. The place is stunned. The Council is meeting tomorrow not at the PiS headquarters, but at the Studio S-1 of Polish Radio Szczecin. And even if it were at headquarters, what would it be, the world would collapse? At most, political freaks would announce on social media that the world has collapsed and they are leaving Poland. For me, the meeting could take place at the headquarters of PO, Modern, PSL, PiS or in the hall in the church, because it is a meeting of the programme council, not a political party. And my question is this: do you, Madam President and your representative of the Programme Board, believe that it does not really matter where the Programme Board of Polish Radio Szczecin meets? And if it doesn't matter or does it matter? The answer we have heard from the president of the council on social media? Does this really guarantee independence, objectivity of Polish Radio Szczecin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u24	Thank you very much. Welcome to this occasion, Deputy Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mrs Teresa Bochwic. Please note this question, but answers to the senators' questions can be given at a time when there will be a stage of questions to public authorities. Right now, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u25	Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, and I can only refer to it through my opinion resulting from our experience and from our information, which we have as a cultural committee, and we have discussed this many times. I believe that the situation in which any representative of the public radio says that meetings of the programme council may take place at the party's headquarters or at the church... Such statements are absolutely unacceptable, because such meetings should take place in a place which guarantees the independence and impartiality of this programme board and its objectivity. Meeting at the party's headquarters is completely unacceptable, in my opinion it is embarrassing. And what the authorities have said makes this kind of situation even more embarrassing. This is a new message for me, and I can honestly say that I am appalled by the fact that these types of people sit in public media in executive positions, people who do not understand that they need to separate their activities or their political or party sympathies from their activities, e.g. as Head of Branch or as Member of the Programme Board. I would also like to say, unfortunately, I regret to add that this is not an isolated case. We've had these kind of signals, they're addressed to us very often. I would say that the fish is rotting away from the head, because we know very well that the head of the National Radio and Television Council is the Councillor of Law and Justice, sits in this club, sees nothing wrong, although in my opinion it breaks not only all standards of apoliticality, but probably also the law. That's what I think. This is not the only case, because we also have the fact that Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka mentioned it in one of the councils, the Minister Dworczyk, I think it is the Polonia Television, which is absolutely unacceptable. So that I draw attention to the fact that even such basic matters, even appearances do not care, is simply ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u26	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! The first point is the matter of facts, because it needs to be established here, à speaking of effectiveness and causality. The draft resolution is dated 21 May, and Mr Trzaskowski's statement, which you have already mentioned here, was held on 17 May. I was taught at school that the time arrow is one way, which means that the cause is always earlier than the effect. So if there is a causal relationship, and this still needs to be proved, then this causal relationship states that first there was Trzaskowski's statement and then there was a draft resolution. So much for the facts. And now a much more serious question. You're here. I took it that way. I'm sorry. She complained that fewer people were coming from outside, fewer visitors were coming to the committee meeting. Maybe that's what the committee's doing. Maybe it's just what the committee's doing, that it's changing into change, so I'd do it. Named, brings draft resolutions, I would say confrontational, as I will talk about later in the speech, results in fewer and fewer people being interested in the work, such work of the committee. You're depreciating your own status, and you want it transferred to the entire House. Do you accept the idea that this is the case? Or do you simply assume that representatives of individual organizations, entities, bodies, institutions do not come out of pure malice to spite you and not discuss... One minute, Mr. Senator. ...don't listen to your discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u28	Dear Senator, I cordially invite you to our committee. You will find that more and more people are coming to our committee, not less. I would also like to say that during the meeting of the Trinity Committee This is the data that I have from that moment, and it's probably increased because people are always looking at and watching our debate, which was just being held at the cultural committee meeting, and 120,000 people were watching us on the Internet. I guess it's rare for a committee to have such interest in people. Experts are also very happy to come to our meetings, and representatives of cultural circles are very happy to come to our meetings. But unfortunately, we have a problem because we can't ask the Minister of Culture. This is the only person we're missing who hasn't found time since the beginning of this term. The Minister of Culture, very politely by us, asked by me, several times elegant writings confirmed receipt of the invitation and then did not come, and the last meeting cancelled at the last minute. People from all over Poland actually arrived for a meeting with the Minister, but five minutes before the committee meeting they found out that the Minister would not arrive. So that what I'm talking about doesn't apply to people, doesn't apply to non-governmental organisations, doesn't apply to experts, etc., is very interested here. Unfortunately, we have no luck with institutions that are responsible for the state of the media in Poland, and I am talking about you as Minister of Culture and I am talking about representatives of... I'm not saying they never come, but our meetings are often missed by the representatives of the National Council... Although I thank you very much for your presence today and the meeting of the cultural committee. But you, sir. I don't think we've seen that in this term of office, and he hasn't once graced us with his presence, even though he is the person responsible for personal matters in public media.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u30	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you an extra question, literally 30 seconds. We didn't understand each other, Senator, I didn't mean the media show, how many people are watching you on TV, but how many people who are involved in decision-making issues that represent official institutions listen to you. As you can see, and you said it yourself, there are fewer and fewer of them. The question is, where's the wine? Whose side is it that doesn't have that contact? Exactly. Well, that's not what you're gonna say here. I made a commitment to 30 seconds, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u31	I'm gonna have to get you cleaned up a little bit. The senator is the committee's rapporteur. Ask me, please, kindly, what happened at the committee meeting, and I ask the senator for answers. The question of attendance at committee meetings or the arrival of invited guests concerns not only the cultural committee, and I do not think that it is the subject of this meeting. Of course, for my part, this is just a suggestion, but for time reasons, I would suggest focusing on the essence of what we are currently discussing. You're asking the Senator the locksmith again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I, too, watched this debate on TV. Sorry, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna go through with this. And I think that Ernest Zozuń, the editor, was far too rarely giving the floor to the president during the deliberations of this committee. But I'm going back to the text of the resolution. We are in the Senate, at least the recent debates have pointed out this, very sensitive to the fact that something allegedly is being smuggled into the texts of legal acts. In the fourth paragraph, you have concluded that culture with its most outstanding figures and works has been marginalized. The title of this resolution is on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. How does the senator tie this sentence to the title of this resolution? These are the first of a series of questions concerning the text of the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u33	There you go. If this is the first of the series, then maybe right away... It'll be quicker. Well, there's still some people who are waiting with their questions. We're not gonna limit the questioning time, but I'd ask for a little self-discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u34	Thank you so much for that question. The culture committee is particularly close. We also added this sentence because we remember what was going on in the case of the award of the Nobel Prize to Mrs Olga Tokarczuk, as it was shown and accepted on TV. In fact, we can say that it was really marginalized and it reminded us of the worst times when other of our great countrymen and cultural creators received the Nobel Prize, and... I don't want to go into it anymore, but I'm talking about the fact that the presence of culture in public media is particularly important because the commercial media that Senator Severinski asked about, although not all of them, tend to treat this subject... well, they push it to a further place in their program. And what we're dealing with on public television, which, as I've pointed out, is also available with ground transmitters, and that's how it goes to a huge crowd of people... Some people don't have access to other TVs at all, e.g. because of the fees for private commercial television, and they watch mainly public television. The presence of culture in the debate, I do not say that it seems particularly important in the political debate, but in the social debate, because it not only plays a huge educational role, but also teaches some kind of political culture and respect for the various opinions and opinions placed in public space. Not everyone has to think the same way. I think it's culture. Thanks to its diversity, thanks to what it builds in public space, it teaches us that respect. There was a reason for this record.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u35	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Marek Komorowski It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! A question for you, Senator of the rapporteur. Was the inspiration for this resolution also one of the speeches in the public debate announcing the liquidation of public television information programmes? Did the committee deal with this thread? And don't you think there should be a reference to this announcement of the liquidation of information programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u37	No, not the statement you're talking about. I can only guess what you're saying. It's going to be Neither the statements quoted earlier by Senator Czerwiński were the reasons for this resolution nor some kind of inspiration. At the committee meeting, we didn't deal with this kind of thing at all, although, of course, there were votes. Because the discussion was diverse, which spoke not only about this one side of the public media, but also about how they are assessed from outside or what speeches fall in public space.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. I think the senator has explained the subject before, but maybe somebody didn't. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'm not offended when you call here the state government. As far as I am concerned, I identify with both the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice and the Government. But I'm sorry if the senator was in any way offended. I understand that you represent the Senator of the Civic Coalition, a formation that ruled our country for eight years before 2015. It's been 20 seconds, Mr. Senator... But I'll get back to the question. I mean the question I asked earlier because the senator didn't answer how many employees in particular, how many journalists lost their jobs in 2011 and 2015. And just one more suggestion. The senator said you weren't the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński. I remind you that I am also a member of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media, and I know that at practically every meeting there is either Minister Sellin, or one of the vice-ministers, or department directors. So that we should thank the Ministry of Culture here, because practically at almost every committee meeting this ministry is represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u40	Yes. As far as the presence of the Vice-Ministers is concerned, I must confirm with satisfaction and pleasure that they really honor us with their presence. I have dared to mention you to the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński, because we have long sought to see the Minister, and often our guests, the vice-ministers who come, say that they do not know something, do not know the plans, and you would have to say something about it. I would like to remind you that our meeting was to be devoted to legislative initiatives planned for the current term of office, so it seems that it is essential that your Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, be present. On the other hand... We have been talking recently about the Polin Museum, which is the responsibility of your Deputy Prime Minister... Yes, the senator recalls that we also had a meeting about the museum, Polin, in which the Minister acts, makes specific decisions, and refers to this in public space. So the discussion with his deputies, who are unable to answer us why the Deputy Prime Minister says yes or no, is very difficult. So that there is no doubt that at least a few times for the entire term of office an appropriate minister should appear at the meeting of this committee. Even courtesy demands it, Senator. How many people lost their jobs in 2011 and 2015? I don't remember the exact number. It was, as I recall, about 400 people. This is my knowledge, resulting from my interest in it, and I've been doing it for a long time. It was a whole large group of released journalists. However, I draw attention to the fact that we here do not write about all those released journalists who unfortunately have left the public media and are still leaving, as we have seen in the Trinity recently: great, well-deserved journalists have gone away and probably will not return to this Trinity. And there's one basic thing that's different about these two cases. Those redundancies, which took place as presidents of Mr Juliusz Braun, were due to economic reasons, i.e. TV had difficulty. Let me remind you that the proceeds from the subscription were falling at that time, so that television had difficulty maintaining itself. Despite that, I'm paying attention. She didn't owe herself, but she was at the end of her term, but she had to take some radical economic steps, which I don't approve of, because I think it was the best way to do it. But right now, we're dealing with departures that I could call political. These are completely different situations when we are leaving for economic reasons and leaving for reasons of the media programming line.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jolanta Hibner asks you a question in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! The resolution is very necessary at this point. I think we all remember the chase in public media on Paweł Adamowicz, who was the president of Gdańsk. We know what happened, and we can't allow public media to fuel hate between people, between candidates. And often the statements of irresponsible journalists suggest that this one is to be finished, and that one is a wonderful man. I'd like to ask if... We discussed in committee meetings what role public media should play, what their task is, and whether the media are doing it at the moment. And what was the response of the representative of the National Radio Council? You said she couldn't answer a lot of questions. Why? Because they don't have public television and public radio oversight among their tasks. You know what happened to Three. Well, we all heard how the three music journalists who left were treated. It's not just one thing, one situation in public media, one situation in public television. At the moment, there's a high-school homicide, seniors who say we won't pay, we didn't pay, because we don't watch TV like this. What's going on? The bailiffs go into their pensions, into those low pensions, and they take their money. Ladies and gentlemen, let's calm down while there's still time. Public media have a specific educational role, but also a publicist role. What part? That's a question for all of us. It cannot be that public media are governed by a single political agreement. This isn't public media. And keeping these public media is what kind of money? From the public budget, from the contributions, from the subscription. Therefore, let the public media take up their role. I would like to ask again if such matters were discussed. There were examples of why we believe that such a resolution is needed. And at this point she's supposed to fulfil her role of calling us all in order. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u43	...In a situation where questions should last a minute, I'm just reminding you. And I'd like to ask you a question. I would also ask the next senators to ask questions and stick to the regime for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u44	I think that some of the members of the cultural committee shared your opinion on what was happening in the public media, and that was what was said. The discussion was quite turbulent. Examples were mentioned. I may not be able to say all this now because we don't have much time, but I also share the concern of the senator. Except, despite the fact that television has recently received as much as 4 billion, which it has never been, Dear Senators, before, it's also... Despite such a huge injection of money, despite such huge wages! because it was also there somewhere in the committee meeting that are in the public media and in their authorities, despite this, still chasing those poor old ladies who do not pay the subscription. And that's shocking. But not only shocking, it also draws our attention to the fact that a bill is still necessary. And I hope that from Minister Gliński, once we are honoured, we will find out when there will be a bill that will normalize this situation. Because paying a subscription is actually a fiction. Most people are chased by people who can't afford to pay for it, or people who have problems. And one last sentence: The National Council has tasks, and it's legal. They're in the bill. So it's not like... we're not saying that she doesn't have these tasks, but we're saying that she should do some things. However, the fact is that there are no tools, because by shaping the personal composition in public media... by losing influence on this formation has lost de facto any concrete influence on the functioning of the media. And when it comes to functioning and what the National Council... That's already a question for your National Council representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Senator! We are still talking about the lack of objectivity of public media. I'm interested in facts, not conjecture or fantasy. I'd like to ask you two questions that connect. How many times in the public media have there been no calls for debate for representatives of the Civic Coalition, and have there been times when representatives of the Civic Coalition refused to participate in the programmes? If so, why and how many times did this happen? I'm interested in specific numbers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask that the senator, who I will remind you, be the rapporteur of the committee, not the head of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u48	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, this has not been the subject of the committee's deliberations and I have no idea how many times they have refused to participate, but, as I say, I can provide you with an independent report, not drawn up by us, in which such situations are described. I also remind you that the senator has heard about the analysis of the stripes appearing in the media and how they are biased. We had here a report of philologists, a report of the Polish Language Council, with which we have been cooperating for many years and which is probably a really respectable, crazy objective institution. As for the question of whether they refused to participate, how many times they did, I'm afraid I can't answer you, but I'll send you the report we worked on. I don't remember that right now. I would remind you that... I agree, of course, that there was a refusal to participate in some kind of protest, but not just on the one hand. I remember this situation when Deputy Prime Minister Gliński left the program studio in public media insulted by asking him a question. That's the situation I remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u50	Mr. Marshal, I was asking a question in a situation where Senator Czerwiński was promoting a rather reckless thesis that Parliament should not actually be questioning the members of the government very much. This is a continuation. Senator's thoughts from the day before And when he talked about what it was I hear there's a reason government members don't come to committee meetings. But then you confronted him with a Senator Swede who said they were coming. So... Mr. Senator, I still can't hear the question... In a relationship, I leave this dilemma to explain between Senator Swede and Senator Czerwinski and I give up the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u51	Thank you, Senator. Anyway, I'd like to point out that you may have informed us. that you wouldn't ask a question in a way far more lapidar than you did. I could have, Mr. Marshal, but I wanted to talk to you. Thank you. The next question is asked by Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome. Remotely, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u52	Dear Senator, I will persistently return to the text of the resolution, which in several paragraphs is uncontroversial, though upper-volatile and banal. The problem boils down to the fourth paragraph, which, however, presents a rather biased view of the work of public media. Didn't you consider it appropriate at the committee meeting to add in this paragraph a sentence of the other party or an objective opinion on the fact that public media are the only systematically and abundantly reporting government work? That would break the certainty that, so to speak, the charging color of this fourth paragraph increased the objectivity of the resolution itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. I also thank you for sticking to extremely precise time discipline. Please respond, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u54	Let me remind you once again that this resolution does not deal with all media, but deals with those media that are financed by public funds. To answer your question, I would like to say that there was no request to add an additional sentence. There were several other conclusions and we took these into account, and they were included in the resolution. As for your statement that this resolution is cliché, I'll say this: yes, it is cliché, because, for example, I'm sure you've noticed. Invocation from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland shall be used in the first subparagraph. But such are the times when certain banal truths need to be reminded of in Senate resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Mariusz Gromka, who will ask us this question from room 217. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, I would like to ask: during the examination of the draft resolution at the committee's meeting, was there a discussion on how to condemn in the draft unacceptable terms which are directed towards journalists, as well as the editorial work of public media? Returns occurring in public spaces of the type of piss, regime television or other vulgarisms and threats towards journalists... Well, it can't be tolerated anymore. If it is the Senate's will to talk about the role of public media, then we cannot ignore this problem. This is where we clearly condemn such behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u57	Thank you so much for that question. I have to say, it wasn't discussed. Honestly, I don't recall this situation... No one stood up for public media journalists at this committee meeting. I'm very sorry about that, but it seems to indicate something.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. But first, I'm going to correct two things. The senator said the vice-ministers don't know why you weren't... Well, that's not true, Minister Sellin gave a precise answer. Mr. Vice Prime Minister was supposed to be at the committee meeting twice, but the very important crisis staff associated with the Cortipinus pandemic made him have to post him to the Vice Minister's meeting. And when it comes to the financial situation in 2011, I will not remind you who in 2008 called the subscription a racket, an undue tribute. Indeed, in 2009, 2010 this situation was difficult, but in 2011 it was already much, much better. So that there were no economic considerations that gave rise to the dismissal of workers. I have a question, Senator. Was there any mention at the committee's meeting of how the TVP Info antenna time was given to presidential candidates, then President Bronisław Komorowski and then President Andrzej Duda, in March and April, directly during the campaign? Were such data on antenna time quoted? What were the differences like?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u61	Yeah, they've been cited for this type of data. I can't repeat them. Maybe a senator, if you remember, or one of the people saying... Maybe it's more of a debate. I would add that these times were determined by the National Council, which was also under the supervision of the National Election Commission. Today, as you know, our Senate amendment to increase the presence of candidates in the media at such a particular time of pandemic, and the amount of this free time, especially as such candidates may appear. I'm sure we know about one thing about Rafael Trzaskowski. Who are just about to report their access... I must say that short time, a small amount of time in public media in this case is particularly unfair to those who will join the campaign. I would also like to say that Deputy Prime Minister Gliński did not only cancel at the last minute, i.e. 5 minutes before we all arrived from all over Poland, including the senator from Lower Silesia... The Prime Minister didn't give a reason for his absence. I'm surprised Mr. Senator has some secret knowledge of why Mr. Vice Prime Minister didn't honor us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik in room 217. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Senator! I would like to refer to Senator Hibner's statement, sitting next to me, which suggested that journalists are somehow contributing to the spread of hat, violence, and called the death of President Adamowicz here. I think it is different, however, that it is mainly us politicians who are responsible for the atmosphere around this political dispute that translates into the behaviour of society. No subscription fees In turn, it is associated with the behaviour of your former Prime Minister Tusk, who actually encouraged you not to pay your subscription. Any bank accounts held by bailiffs are mainly due to the unfulfilled promises of Prime Minister Tusk. The question to the senator is such, it is related to the answer to the question of Professor Sewerinski. I agree with Senator Sewerinski's statement, both public and private media should be able to convey the facts honestly. However, Senator, in answer to the question, justified a certain difference in the funding from the state's public media budget. Well, I don't agree with that argument, because that would mean agreeing to... The lack of funding from the state's private media budget is our agreement not to create this reliable media message. I don't know if I understand you correctly, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u65	I don't know, I'm not going to refer to your speech by Senator Hibner. But as far as the media are concerned, I think I've made it pretty clear why. But let me add that we are not aware of this, but the commercial media are very different. We do not deal with all commercial media, we do not deal with coded channels, for which citizens pay and see content with which sometimes none of us would agree or accept them. We just have a situation like this. We are not even able to deal with all the media in Poland because, as you know, the media are independent. And we respect this independence of the media, including public media. But because of the legal situation and the funding, we need to deal specifically with public media.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor remotely from Senator Marek Komorowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u67	Senator, additional questions to your earlier question. In your statement, you said that television was difficult at that time. At the time, I have the impression that not only television had difficulties, but the whole government of Donald Tusk or Eve Kopacz had difficulties. We heard only then: there is no money and there will be no money. But I'll get back to the questions. Why is there no resolution on the language of hatred in public space and in the media, such as in the statements of former President Bronisław Komorowski or Radosław Sikorski? Because I'll say I'm ashamed of what you're saying. And it just doesn't make it right for such statements, such a language of hatred to be in public space. Second question. Why does the committee go on the agenda over the statements on the intention to liquidate public television information programmes, as if nothing had happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u69	Here's the question again... Tell me your name, tell me what you're talking about. I can only guess that this is about Mr Rafał Trzaskowski's statement, who later, explaining this situation, said that he meant making the media independent from the pressure of politicians. He'll probably be presenting his program, and then we'll take care of it. The fact is, there's a social group that thinks... I do not belong to it, I appreciate the importance of public media, I think they should exist, that there is some meaning in it. But should they be so Byzantine, so extensive? Well, that's a topic for discussion. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that there is a large group, a large part of society, which undermines the sense of public media at all. Because, I remind you, there are countries where there are no public media. And there's nothing wrong with it. And while answering to the senator, I'm going to say that there's something completely different about hate about the media, that is. It's how someone misinterprets public media, offends journalists, whether it's TVN journalists, whether it's public journalists... This is a completely different issue, hate speech about media or journalists. Because viewers often have the right to their subjective assessment. And what's happening on social media... We can only regret this, but this is different from the hate speech in the media, in the public media, which are committed to education, to spreading tolerance, which should represent a variety of positions that should not be held all day, from morning to evening by the Marshal of the Senate, publishing content against him or any opposition candidate or any social groups. I'm like a stalker, for example. For resident doctors, I'd like to remind you of the homicides of those who protested with their children in the Sejm. Let me remind you that television journalists are wrong about the role that they do all day long to check, to verify negative messages on someone else's subject. This is completely unacceptable. I would like one of your senators to stand up and say: yes, I support it, that's how it should be, we should piss on President Adamowicz from morning to evening, that's fine, that's good. But I didn't meet a guy like that on the side of the piss. I'm talking about the people here, the ladies and senators. I've never met anyone who would defend it. I have not met a person among you who would stand up and say that television works very well and that public media information programmes are objective. Well, I haven't heard you say it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith, who will ask the question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u71	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Senator, I return persistently to the text of the resolution. The resolution speaks of beautiful ideas, objectivity, integrity, but the fourth paragraph I have already mentioned is full of bias, biased courts, prejudices. Well, it doesn't describe reality in an objective way. I think it might be perceived as the way I perceive it, which is as an attack by politicians of one option on public media. Therefore, the pronunciation will also change. of the first subparagraph Senat not so much calls for public media as calls for public media. Isn't senator rapporteur afraid to send such a signal from the Senate in the face of an upcoming election campaign?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u73	No, I'm not afraid because we don't challenge anyone in the fourth paragraph. We're talking about what we've come to after many meetings with expert opinions. I would like to point out that this opinion has won the recognition of the majority of the senators and is shared by the majority of the members of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Committee. Well, this paragraph was even tightened up by one of the amendments that we adopted just because most of the committee wanted it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! In this resolution, although it is short, three different layers were mixed. Well, that's what I'd call it. One layer is a layer of true statements, but in general enough to actually put them in any text. I'll quote, for example. such a passage: The election period is always the most important state test. That's a beautiful sentence. Nothing, just stick to it. Thank you. The second layer is a layer, I'd call it an attack. Skill has been put in some sentences, which, when mixed with sentences that are generally true, make it difficult for the average reader to understand what the meaning of this resolution is. I would like to quote one of these attacks: in recent years a party propaganda tool has been made of public media. Without proof, just like that, you make statements like that so you can hit the party that's supposed to be doing the propaganda. But in every resolution there are still At least there should be postulates. Even in historical resolutions, some people are worshiped, admired certain attitudes, and so on. And here are the demands. The first postulate is in the first paragraph, but there is also the second postulate. I quote it to you: The Senate of the Republic of Poland expects and calls on the institutions of the state to respect all voters... What's going on here? Which institutions should respect all voters? Are we currently trying to write some guidelines for individual institutions on how they are supposed to behave in an election campaign? But... Well, I'm reading your lyrics. All voters regardless of their views, well, here rightly, and respect for civil rights, and it is a suggestion that some institutions do not respect civil rights. But there should be examples in the text of the resolution that it is, and that is just so, thrown, of course, to suggest that perhaps these rights are not respected. In particular, attention to the truthfulness of the public media transmission, perhaps explains a little. Ladies and gentlemen, this type of mishmash, which is generally true sentences that no one will question, e.g. The cloudless sky should be blue, then attacking sentences, and then sending certain messages into space and mixed with the rest, causes that the resolution actually has one fundamental tone, i.e. is an attack, or actually an attempt to attack It's not even an attack, because if it were concrete, it could be related to it, and it's an attempt to attack. On the other side of the political scene, using the opportunities offered by the High Chamber. You have most of it here. I would like to tell you that these resolutions are a novelty, and I will talk about this further in my speech. And that means that you are the ones who introduce such poetry, into quotes, into the actions of the Senate. And now for a specific question, once again, what do you really want? The Senate of the Republic of Poland expects and calls on the state institutions to respect all voters. Explain that sentence to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u77	I'll give you a quick answer to the senator. As for this mishmash, I think from your point of view this mishmash looks like if you agree with something, it's a mishmash, and if you disagree with something, it's this. You have, so these are content that is hostile or you are not responding. You have the right to such an opinion, Senator, of course, which is why there is a discussion and a vote on this resolution. As far as this is concerned, that we call on the institutions of the state to respect, etc., I would say that we have exchanged one of these institutions, the National Council of Radio and Television. We didn't type it in, but it's also addressed to the government, to the Ministry of Culture, which has some impact on the media there and can take care of it. Mr. Senator, I really don't know what to disagree with here. How can we disagree with the opinion that calls for respect for all voters regardless of their views? That's just what such an ore-mental respect requires for every human being. As we respect each other, although very often, Senator, we disagree, so much the more you, the more the state institutions should have respect for every citizen, even for a citizen who recognizes different content and has different views or views than appears on public television. Public television and public media should respect this and we call for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u78	Thank you very much. If I may, Mr. Marshal, one sentence, corrigendum. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u79	I didn't say I disagree. With some of the sentences that are in this resolution, it is certainly necessary to agree with the general ones, but certainly not with the attacks. Like I said, there are three categories of speeches. These statements, which call for something, must have some context and anchor in the contents of the bill. Here we talk about the media, and then there's a very general sentence, let's love each other. I'm also in favour of us making love, not criticizing each other and jumping into each other's eyes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u80	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u81	Okay, I'm just gonna finish one more thing about the tribal culture committee meeting. We have to separate the appeals from the attacks. We're calling for something here, we're applying for something, we're asking you, we're showing you, and you might disagree. But for example. When we discussed the Trinity, we sent a letter to the National Council calling for the heads of public radio and the three... I mean, it's about canceling the president of the radio and the director of Three. It was a call to the National Media Council. It was a subpoena, although we could say it's an attack because we demanded someone's cancellation... it's politically called an attack. But there's no attack here. Here is a statement concerning an opinion on which the Senate takes its decision by a majority, and there is a call primarily for public media. This is due to what we are all watching and to a huge public debate. If the senator does not notice how this topic interests Poles, how It's bearable, I'm really surprised, because it seems like you're living in a completely different world. This is an important and important topic in society and this is what we refer to in the special situation of presidential elections conducted under such extraordinary laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Stanislaw Gogach's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u83	Mrs. Senator, I have a question about the second paragraph, where it is said that citizens, through the statutory subscription fees... I would like to ask you where, with regard to the legal language, the language of the legal standards, can we find such a term as subscription fees, in the situation where you enter the wording of the statutory subscription tributes? Where can we find it? The applicable law on subscription fees is referred to in Article. 2 (2) One subscription fee. The problem is that, when you enter the term "dance," you introduce an assessment, a pejorative assessment of something that in the subscription bill... no, however, is defined as a subscription fee. Don't you think the resolution you're reporting now, which you're presenting? And that's probably the first such case when it comes to resolutions that we make in the Senate. It strikes the existing law because this resolution criticises the existing law on subscription fees, calling the subscription fee a subscription fee? Once the subscription fee was called a racket, but not in the legislative language, not in the language of resolutions or the language used by Parliament, but in the language used in the public debate. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u84	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u85	I don't want to get into any legal discussions here, but I'm gonna say there's no obligation at all to use strict. legal language in Senate resolutions. The resolution should be understandable to citizens. There's nothing offensive or... Maybe there's a pejorative sound here, maybe somebody has a right to... but that sound doesn't have to be pejorative. I remind you that we use the words "dance," saying, for example. I'm talking about taxes. The subscription fee is a form of tax because it applies to everyone and, most importantly, it is mandatory. It's not a voluntary fee that you can pay for some private TV. You have a duty. Every citizen with a TV, even if he does not watch Polish Television, must pay such tribute. That's where the word is used. Well, you may disagree with him.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Marshal Maria Blanket. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs Senator, I would like to ask you another opinion, which is also in this resolution and on which a certain question has already been raised, but the President's statement seems inadequate to me. There is an expression here that also culture, with its most outstanding figures and works, has been pushed to a margin in terms of public media, public television. However, I would like you to extend your response. Because you only limited yourself to indicating the character of Mrs. Olga Tokarczuk, the moment she received the Nobel Prize, which was broadcast by TVP Info. Her lecture, the sensitive narrator, could not be broadcast, because we know that only 3 minutes signals were available, so there was no possibility to broadcast this event in the media, but only on the Internet. But what other events Do you think the characters or works are ignored? Because it seems that public television is currently placing a great deal of emphasis on popularising culture, our cultural heritage, but not just After all, there are many new forms of programming that concern culture, but also entertainment, sport. We see that in programme terms television has developed very much, also thanks to the funds it receives from the state budget, and which, I recall, are compensation for the lost proceeds from the licence fee exemption you made in 2008. I would also remind you that these compensations which public television is currently receiving and which are needed to enable it to function, fulfil its mission and at the same time develop 'Cause that's what we expect from the public media, not the media at all. This is due to the implementation of the 2009 Constitutional Court judgment. The Constitutional Tribunal then made it clear that the Sejm And then your group had most of it there. It has the right to exempt a large part of the population from the subscription fee, but it must compensate the public media in the form of such compensation. And this is what is happening now, and this is, in our opinion, very well used by television. So I'd like an extension... Because if the problem concerns only Olga Tokarczuk, then perhaps this sentence is completely unnecessary here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u89	I'll be right there. Hurry up. As far as these issues are concerned... Maybe I'll be very brief: when it comes to public media, I'm not going to discuss... Of course, the senator is right that there are visible elements of caring for culture. We have a TVP Culture program, we have it in other programs, in TVP Polonia, we have programs dedicated to culture... That's not what we're talking about here. Speaking of this case, I wasn't just thinking about what happened and what rank the public media gave to Mrs. Olga Tokarczuk's Nobel Prize. And it certainly wasn't close to the statements of some famous politicians from the ruling party who are being presented over and over again. What was I gonna say? Please note that we don't have access right now... We were denied information about how much money is directed towards information What I call propaganda, although the senator probably disagrees with it, nevertheless, what we receive in public media is not, in my opinion, information. On the one hand, we have huge expenditures, there are new TV studios, there are also giant earnings of people who work in the media in the area of information and publicity, but when it comes to cultural matters, they have really been marginalized. I have to tell you, he was recently. I think it's Mr. Zenk Martynuk's concert again, with huge funding... If we had as many serious music and ambitious programs as we have disco polo and Zenk Martyniuk, maybe I wouldn't have such comments. I'm not saying there can't be any content, but maybe in some kind of entertainment program or something... But this kind of content flies in prime time, at the moments of the greatest audience, etc., while culture in public media is really pushed to the margin right now. And that's what we'd expect from the public media. I think that I, and you, too. To have more culture there, in a very broad context, i.e. in the sense of respect for the viewer, the recipient, for diversity, and in the sense of: more cultural programmes. So that what I said wasn't just about Olga Tokarczuk. This has already been about a complete imbalance in proportion to mass culture, popular culture, and what we call a high culture. However, I do not question the fact that there are educational programmes on public television, there are programmes devoted to culture. It's true. This multiplicity of programs can be seen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. The first one was asked by Marshal Maria Koc, and I was referring to the passage of the resolution of culture, with the most outstanding figures and works, was pushed to the margin. But because we didn't actually get an answer, I have a question for the senator: what particular characters and what particular works were pushed aside in the opinion of the senator, in the opinion of the petitioners of this resolution? And second question. It's about compensation for subscription receipts. I will mention a passage from the article: A few days ago politicians who criticize the government camp today for compensation for public media voted in favour of the budgetary amendment by PSL, which assumed the transfer of PLN 750 million to public media. The PSL amendment was voted in favour of the Members of this party, Kukiz, 15, the Civic Coalition, the Left, against the former Members of Law and Justice. Are you for or against compensation for the media? How about for, or even against? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u92	I don't know what you mean. I'll be honest with you. And say, what was the money meant to be used for? The media. This was an amendment granting PLN 750 million to public media as part of subscription compensation. I suspect it was a specific case. I don't think the Platform voted in this term to give money to the media. Yeah, well, I don't... In his previous term of office. It was in the previous term, right? When? Tell me, Senator, when was this, because I really... Well, that's an amendment exactly this year. This year, right? I don't know. I don't know about that. I don't remember our Coalition or PSL at all... that there'd be this kind of thing to add money. Unless it's for a specific purpose. And when it comes to these characters, I'm not gonna name all the characters that I miss, because maybe I'd be very subjective about it... Not all of them, but some... I spoke about a really gross imbalance, and what huge money is being spent on what I would call human content, what I would call the content of a circle... And I'm not so against it, but it's intimidating to show these kinds of events, maybe they should be in public media somewhere, too, but I'm saying that this huge discrepancy. I will no longer remind you how culture is presented in public media at all, what attacks were their time on people of culture, on the Polish Theatre on the occasion of various kinds of conflicts, situations in which television and public media They're not on the side of culture, they're on the side of politicians fighting this culture or trying to manipulate it. Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u93	You're welcome, Senator. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u94	Mrs. Senator, as far as culture is concerned, there is no such general attention, but we have written culture, with the most outstanding figures and works. Well, I'm not telling you to name everyone, of course, but I'd like to know if there are any characters and works that you can name here, also as an applicant's representative. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u96	Good. I have to say, I do. I regret that in the programme dedicated to Andrzej Wajda And it was probably on TVP Culture, where I heard about it, I think it was an anniversary. The number of negative information exceeded the number of positive information, and we are talking about one of our most outstanding cultural creators. It was amazing. I can also remind you of situations where guests were invited. Unfortunately, it was probably on TVP Culture And then these invitations were canceled, which means there was this kind of... There's some kind of program where you invite people close to culture and they talk about these people. And the wish for someone to come was denied. There's been a situation like this. I would no longer like to remind you of such embarrassing situations that happen in public media at the moment, that one song, Mr. Senator, is playing, and another one doesn't let go, that there are records that there are night texts, that there are phones that don't talk about something, and talk about something. Mr. Senator, we're dealing with such embarrassing situations. In the case of Three, it turns out... This is also a cultural area. Three is one of those programs that always kept the level and always, I think, were close to people just because of their approach to culture and shaping the taste of Poles. For many years the Triple has shaped tastes, and now the public radio is ruled by people who have no understanding for this understanding, have no understanding for the entire heritage of the Triple. And it's all ruined by wanting to please someone or not wanting to offend some politician because there's a song about him. After all, in the years of Wałęsa, give back my 100 million, Kazik's song, I remind you that it flew in all public media and it was never the subject of any phone calls, some night texts, commands that you have to censor the content that appears... So that I could give examples like this... Well, I don't know, I really don't want to prolong anymore. I think we've already discussed almost every sentence of this resolution. Everyone will vote according to their opinion. However, I think it is very important that such a resolution should be adopted right now, that we have prepared it and that it should be addressed to the addressees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I just want to remind everyone that there are two more questions ahead of us: Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka and Senator Maria Koc. It is also registered, as I see it, Jan Maria Jackowski. But I would like to remind you that it will still be possible to ask questions later on to the Deputy Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council and then to take part in the debate. So I would just like to reassure all senators that their right to speak in this, we see, an important political and social issue will, of course, be guaranteed on a very large scale. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede... He already did. I'm sorry. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka in Room 217, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I would like to ask if the committee's meeting took place on the subject of an epidemic on public online television, among others. Geography, Polish, Math? Lessons conducted with improbable, even reprehensible errors. Has one of the basic missions of public education been assessed? Is it planned to prepare a report assessing the conduct of this mission not only during the epidemic but in general? Because I will admit that the quality of these lessons and the quality of this mission in public media is terrifying. It seems to me that if a report with recommendations for change is not prepared, we will actually lead to educational destruction in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u100	Thank you so much for that question. I know it aroused a series of controversy. I also know that online education is one of those things that didn't work out, and it's actually hard to blame someone for that. But the public media right here, in my opinion, they have shown themselves to be particularly irresponsible by playing lessons of this kind in public media, because what is raining out there is forever. In addition, the number of recipients is so huge that particular attention should be paid to these content. This was not the content of the committee meeting. There is a question, perhaps to the National Council of Radio and Television, whether it will address it and whether it will pay attention to the content, the quality of this education, which was presented in the media and which has aroused such huge controversy. I hope so. Let me remind you that we have already received a report from the National Radio and Television Council. We're gonna have a sitting, and we're gonna be able to, among other things. I want to talk to you about this. I haven't read it yet because we got it yesterday or the day before. I hope he'll be there. Or maybe he'll be in the next report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Marshal Maria Blanket. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, despite all this, although I have been asking you this question, as well as Senator Alexander Swed, you have only presented such incidents in a very judgmental and subjective manner, suggesting some underappreciation or maybe showing a character from our culture not in the light in which they should be shown. But, as I say, these are incidental cases which, in my opinion, should not cause such a sentence to appear in this resolution. As I said, I consider this resolution to be biased and curious, and already this record of culture and marginalizing it... I believe that in this resolution this sentence should absolutely not be found. Madam President says he has some reservations. As to the proportion between the high culture or the folk culture, but still... Well, what are the most outstanding characters and their works being pushed into the margin? We still don't know that, Madam President. On the other hand, about this education that was done through television at the time of the outbreak... Ladies and gentlemen, this happened suddenly. The teachers were from the classrooms, from schools to television, but it was their good will. Nobody prepared them for this because there was no time for it. Really, let's be more objective and fair. I would like to thank these teachers very warmly. They were doing their best. I'm sure after a few weeks, after getting an internship in front of the cameras, they could show their knowledge and their skills a lot better, but it all happened suddenly. So I would also like to ask for justice towards these teachers and towards this education, which took place through public media, because only public media have undertaken it. We also need to appreciate that. You don't have to criticize everything. And the situation was actually extraordinarily outrageous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u104	Thank you very much. As far as this last issue is concerned, I guess none of us here would have thought of blaming teachers who were pushed on the air without preparation. In fact, these teachers conducted long programs without prior preparation, because they were entire lessons. It was their good will... So that I can only feel sorry for these teachers and teachers for being manipulated into situations like this. However, this is definitely burdened by the Polish Television, which has shown no care. There are many instruments in Poland, many tools for online education, and such specialists could be used. There are programs running, there are entire portals, there are available content. I remind you that in the previous term of office I don't know what it's like now, there were fantastic programs prepared for use on the Internet, programs for young people that could be played on the Internet, with fantastic content. So, Senator, you can't defend this here because... I agree that no one blames these teachers or these teachers, we bow down to them, and we all resent that these people have been manipulated into this situation. Professional television should never allow this to happen. Never, never, Senator. And about that... I would point out to you that... we were talking about journalists here. I will mention journalists who have been involved in culture in public media, and who have left and today do their job, e.g. in web portals. For example, Katarzyna Janowska, who ran such a fantastic show on TVP Kultura, was probably the director. These content, these programs, and this interest of the audience... This part of the audience, which was interested in a slightly different part of culture than what is presented in public media, just left. This viewer left, went to different portals, to Onet or to other places on the web. Television has lost many fantastic, sophisticated viewers and guests who have come to this television forever. This is because of bias, because it promotes content that is only close to a certain part of society, I don't even think it's the majority. And on TV, let's agree, there should be various kinds of looks, especially when we're talking about culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's final question. That's why I said last time that no one else signed up... Excuse me. Senator Zdrojewski here. I called the wolf, actually Mr. Senator Zdrojewski, out of the woods, and I got what I wanted. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I have a question about the first paragraph of this draft resolution, because there is a wording for ensuring full objectivity. I understand that the media are objective, only you in this draft resolution are concerned with full objectivity? Would you say that because it's a dialectical phrase, is it the objectivity, or is there no objectivity? I'd change that if I were the authors. If anything, I would quote a passage from the Act on Radio and Television, which quite neatly describes the functions of public media. There is talk of creating an open forum for public debate, etc., etc. In my opinion, the formulation of complete objectivity is a dialectic figure. Don't you consider changing the wording in the procedure of the amendment? Because from this you can read that it's objective, and the state would want even more objectivity than it is right now. Thank you. Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. And while I'm impressed with your question, I'd like your answer, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u108	Yes, this is the second time I've been impressed by this question, because that question was raised at the committee meeting. And I'm surprised. You're the vice-president, Senator, who's been working fantastically in the cultural committee, and we've been working in it for years, because if you had an amendment, you had to file it and maybe we could delete something. I'd rather. We wouldn't be doing this anymore, because we would have to call joint committees. I don't think that makes any sense, especially since you made those remarks and they didn't seem to have a response from the senators. So, if you'll excuse me, there's time for some minor amendments, and there's even time to accept them, but there's also a moment when we're finishing the debate, we want to go to the vote, and we still have a few points today, which the marshal draws attention to. So that I would appeal to you not to make this amendment anymore, because it really doesn't change anything. I don't agree with her. Well, you're still saying that, according to you, the media is objective, and we want full objectivity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u110	Since there were questions that were of an assessment nature, I would refer to them, rather wanting to confirm a certain state of affairs that appeared in three questions. First thing. Indeed, Senator Alexander Swed is right about the amendment that was tabled this year, it was about PLN 700 million. This amendment was very much in line with the amendment tabled in 2009, at the time it was about the amount of PLN 500.700 million. However, which is very important and important, Mr. Senator did not say what conditions were attached to this amendment. I will remind you that the condition for this amendment was the termination of the subscription, i.e. This was compensation for lost revenue, which is a very important part of the calculation of what could also be the subject of a possible notification in the European Union. And it's just a matter of confirming it. Second thing. Indeed, this remote education is a devastating failure. It's devastating, another adjective I'm not able to use when it comes to public television. Despite the fact that, as the President said, there have been tools prepared for many, many years, in some cases for 10 years, for example. Music or e-book art classes were not used and replaced by very amateur projects, to the detriment of the educational process of our youngest. And it was merely to confirm these two states of things so that there would be no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u112	But I don't think there was a question. It was about confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. And let me remind you that this is the moment we're asking questions right now. I ask Senator Zdzisław Pupa to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u114	Senator, in the light of what Senator Jackowski was asking about full objectivity, I have such a question for the senator. How do we understand objectivity and objectivity? Because it seems to me that the committees were guided by the evaluation, so that it would be objective, not mere objectivity. How do committees distinguish this, and how do they explain it, how is objectivity different from full objectivity? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u116	We didn't settle that. Only Senator Jackowski spoke on this subject, so that you address him, he will explain it to you. This wasn't the subject of any discussion at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. That concludes the questions. My findings were related to the way in which you are participating in our debate, the Deputy Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. It's just that we're gonna figure out... This is similar to attending a meeting of a representative of the government. Therefore, I am currently asking the Deputy Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council whether it will be so gracious and would like to address and present the Council's position on the matter. At the same time, I warn the president that later, according to parliamentary custom, senators will be able to ask you questions. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u118	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I listened with great interest to this previous meeting, on the committees as well as today. I would like to say that I will explain a few things right away, on an ongoing basis, and we will send you a written reply in a few cases, because I would like it to be detailed, exhaustive, and that there should be no mistake simply arising from speaking on an ongoing basis. E.g. This is the result of twisting my words just at the previous meeting. I never said that the National Council couldn't do anything that it couldn't do that. I quite clearly said then that the National Council, above all, is not the National Media Council. And maybe it's hard... Because this new advice is new, so it's not so easy to distinguish them. Nevertheless, each of them has completely different tasks. The National Council of Radiophony and Television, which I represent at the moment, has a statutory ban on interfering in the work of the editorial office and in personal matters of public media editorial. Well, he might try to interfere in other things, but it's not... Then that's the problem with the media, how they're gonna react. And that's the only thing the National Council can't do. But of course the National Council can do a lot of different things, it does a lot of things. You will receive another report and there will be a broad presentation of our year-round activities last year. I very much encourage you to read the Act on Radio and Television, because I have the impression that even the members of the Committee on Culture and Media are simply not fully aware of this Act. There are also many other reports that are worth getting acquainted with. The state, as a parliament, receives monthly reports from public radio and television on the participation of politicians and various political institutions and bodies in the programmes. It's not like you measure every second you show someone how they ate ice cream. or he was out there fooling around, and journalists caught him on it, and it's time for people to be invited to the program, i.e. people who consciously came there, who are asked various questions and who have every opportunity to answer and comment on these questions. So it is the conscious presence of invited persons. Now, I'd like to ask you a question about who... Since we have talked so much about pluralism and the state in its resolution has accused the lack of pluralism in the public media, I would like to ask you this very much. Who's missing an option? There was a time, about a year ago, when there wasn't enough Confederation, during the election, and we noticed that. There was an analysis of last year's parliamentary elections, to the European Parliament, and it resulted in the fact that the representatives of the Confederation, so to speak, were underestimated. I want you to look at these reports and see what's in those files. As a representative of the National Radio and Television Council, I'd be happy to receive... We will gladly read and consider such accusations, and we will consider them in the sense that some comments will be given to the broadcasters to correct them. Now this general remark: there is no country in Europe or in the European Union where there is no public media. They are and are in line with the European Union Directive, and also with a number of these directives. That's the media everywhere. So please don't... This is where I heard there are countries where there aren't. No, there's public media everywhere. It's a little different in Luxembourg, but this is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, Senator, I'd really like to ask... No, there isn't. There is no country in the European Union that... There are countries in the world... Well, there are things in the world... I would very much like to ask you to observe the formal framework of our discussion. Heads cut off in the world, etc. Well, maybe... Well, I'm sorry, I'm trying to correct it. Please, I would appeal to everyone to take advantage of the regulatory possibilities. I'm trying to correct the wrong statements I've heard here. Besides, it's not from you at all, it's from someone else. They've been going through a lot here, and we're still hearing that we're gonna cancel some radio boards or something like that. Well, the National Radio and Television Council doesn't deal with this, and I'm very sorry about that, but I feel obliged to say it in a corrective manner. So there is no country in the European Union that does not have public media in one form or another. I've already told you about pluralism. With regard to the role in the Radio and Television Act of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council, we will send you a written statement from these laws to make this clear to everyone. When I ask whether the National Radio and Television Council is doing monitoring, I will answer: yes, it is constantly doing various monitoring. I suppose because of the pandemic, but right now I don't remember it exactly, we didn't really plan to monitor the elections, the last one, May 10th. Well, that's what happened. I will also give you in writing an answer as to why this was the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President... I'd still like to... You are gracious to inform us of your legislative work. I would like to inform you that you are taking part in the Senate meeting, not in the meeting, that you have been gracious to use it, and to remind you of the custom that exists in the Republic of Poland, such that we address the senator, Mr Marshal, and not ask you. Since you have been so gracious and want to lecture us about legislation in Poland, I am forced to remind you that you are in the Senate, and I would very much ask you to turn to the formulas that apply in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u120	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now, as for the various things that you've brought up here... With regard to subscriptions and bailiffs, last year an amendment of the regulation was made and bailiffs no longer pursue people over 75 who are exempt from the licence. It was the most unfair and gross thing about this case. Of course, the bailiffs perform their tasks ex officio, if someone does not pay the subscription, then the Polish Post Office is asking for this to be downloaded. But we have introduced a number of different laws that have brought great relief, I think, to many people. Now when it comes to complaints that come to us, there was also a question. Last year those complaints were I'm sorry, I'm reaching out to this... There were 1564 complaints like this. There have been more than 1,160 complaints about the programme, and we have initiated 304 proceedings on the programme. At that time, the public media, both regional and regional radio stations and regional branches, had 413 complaints, 163 proceedings were opened. The difference between the number of complaints and the number of proceedings is that some complaints are complaints It's like it's crazy or so trivial, someone said someone was doing a face or something, so it's not... As far as the assessment of the quality of lessons in Polish Television is concerned, I think that Poland Television should do this assessment as well as the Ministry of Education. Of course, we have looked at this as part of a public mission, but I think that the pandemic state, especially in the first few days, largely justifies all of this. There is, of course, also, besides what the senators have quoted here, a lot of various old programs, still from the times of the Polish People's Republic, from geography or biology, from such objects that could be used. This is, of course, a very important remark, which we will pass on to the Polish Television. From time to time, we hold meetings where we pass on our expectations, especially in relation to the mission. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as these reports are concerned, I've already discussed this. About the programming board, the three, etc... I'm paying attention. not only that the Programme Council appoints the National Media Council, but also that they are very complex bodies, they are 15 people, the Council also includes 10 politicians, and from the ruling party, and from the opposition, and I think that these people... I can't imagine paying them any attention on our part about where they're supposed to meet. If I can afford a less formal treatment here, I will say that I have sat on the TV and radio programme council for many years, and I know that the programme council has visited many interesting places and it has always been agreed within the programme council, where the programme board chooses who it wants to know and what it wants to know. Are there any more questions? As I said, these different responses to numbers and laws will be sent to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. At present, senators may ask no more than a minute of questions to the president. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka and to Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senators of the Secretaries, and send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I would like to inform you that many senators have already submitted such questions. I would just like to make myself the first person to speak and ask the president a question... Oh! ...if possible, and I assume there is, contrary to the protests of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I would like to ask the president not so much about the number Thank you so much for giving it to me. Public TV complaints and public media, first of all, the nature of these complaints and secondly, which is probably the most important, the impact of these complaints from the point of view of the National Radio and Television Council. I would like you, Madam President, if that is possible, to be kind enough to tell us, for example, what a complaint was a groundless complaint in the opinion of the National Radio and Television Council and whether there have been legitimate complaints. In fact, I'm even more interested because it'll give us an idea. In the opinion of the National Council for Radio and Television, this advice, not some opposition or someone, but this National Council for Radio and Television, drew attention to the negative aspects of the activity of public media. We're just happy to get to know it. If you'd be kind enough to answer that question, I'd be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u122	I will answer this question in writing in detail. In general, they were legitimate. As I said, complaints in small cases, such as that someone seems to think, are generally considered unreasonable. Then after checking it out, because we watch the recordings, we listen to the radio text, it turns out that there was no such broadcast or that someone totally misunderstood what they heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u123	Sure, Madam President. Thank you. I fully understand that and I understand that the written answer to my question will concern effective complaints Let's call it that. Against the public media addressed to the National Radio and Television Council. Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u124	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I'm not gonna ask you what you think is an effective complaint, although that would be very interesting. Or, for example, Some kind of punishment has been imposed. Well, that's the effectiveness of the complaint. If I'm... Yeah, yeah. If I'm complaining about someone and the organ I'm complaining about is punished... Good. ...that means the effectiveness of the complaint. Okay, I got it. I have a few questions for the president, but I would like to begin by thanking the president for the opportunity to ask these questions, which is for your presence here, because as far as different bodies or institutions are concerned, this is not always the case. Well, for example. There is no one here from the National Media Council, and I would also have a few questions for this National Media Council, because responsibility for the media is divided between the National Council and the National Media Council. First question. Tell me, how do you judge the news? Is according to Article. The 21th Radio and Television Act These News I'm not talking about all the information programmes This basic public television information programme is carrying out what this article contains? He says that public media are to offer diverse programmes and other services characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence. Whether the National Radio and Television Council is evaluating the article at all. 21 public television and public radio? Does it only make quantitative combinations? Does it respond when it comes to the quality of the programmes, only to complaints? If so, I believe that this is a serious mistake, as the National Council has an obligation to assess media transfers in terms of Article. 21, the most important article in my opinion. You said that the National Media Council during the pandemic period did not examine, I understand, quantitative... National Council. ...the values... Mr. Marshal, first of all, it's been a minute. Secondly, I believe I am not the only one who is difficult to find a question in your speech. Conclude, sir, because you've been out of line for a minute. Firstly, did the media board carry out qualitative assessments? Secondly, did she also carry out quantitative assessments? Is the question understood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Forgive me, but I pay attention to everyone's time. Now I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... Thank you for being objective. You're more objective than the media. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna ask the president first. Here in the Senate we have two formulas of this kind of conversation. Will Madam President be gracious to wait for a few questions and then answer collectively, or do you find it more convenient to answer directly after each question? Please make a decision on this. I'd rather answer right away. Right away. Then I ask you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u126	Mr. Marshal, the National Radio Council, that I will allow myself to correct, conduct such research. Until last year, we were leading... The first three years, which was two years ago-- yeah, two years ago, last time we did massive research and monitoring of this type of broadcast. For reasons such as: they are somewhat limited at the moment. Twice a year there is a large monitoring of public media The whole week is examined, including, of course, publication and information programmes. In these studies, in particular previous studies I always seek this kind of research because I consider it extremely important to do qualitative and quantitative research, sometimes very eloquent in its effects. So it's done in a slightly smaller range. The previous National Council took out the orders of these monitors and it was extremely expensive, it was going in hundreds of thousands of zlotys, so it was limited... I think that the solution currently applied does not raise some fundamental shortcomings in this regard, because it is all well thought out, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I'd ask you to give me two sentences. They're true, they're true, they're true, they're true, they're true, they're true, they're true, they're true, they're Which are included in the text of the draft of this resolution: In recent years a party propaganda tool has been made of public media; the culture, with its most outstanding figures and departments, has been pushed to the margin. Are we really dealing with such processes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u129	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to ask the President for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u130	As far as culture is concerned, I would like to point out that the Television Theatre has been fully restored, which gives extremely valuable programs. There are also many other cultural programs. Nor can we forget that there are times when the creators of television boycott, and therefore these creators are not on the air. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? Let me remind you, senators, that we are not having an informal discussion here. The senators have the right to their views and their assessment of the matter. And as far as the first part of the question is concerned, I am not here to speak on what I personally think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u131	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u132	I'd just like to ask, Mr. Marshal. I will repeat the question I have already asked the rapporteur. Well, I'd like to ask, because I didn't ask for your private opinion, I asked for the attitude of the vice-president of the National Radio and Television Council to this meeting of the radio programme council in the elected composition. Aren't you concerned that this meeting was convened at the seat of one of the parties? Please answer this question in writing. My second question is from your previous answers. Did I understand correctly that you want to tell the TV that in today's debate the senators I may have misunderstood this statement, suggesting a return to the archive materials that are collected on television, to materials from the 1970s and 1980s, from the times of the Polish People's Republic? It's about geography lessons, and so on. Did I get that right? I'd like to be 100% sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the president for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u134	Under no circumstances do I transmit any information from the Senate or from other places to which I am invited as a guest, but as a member of the National Council I note various comments and ideas. During a conversation with TV At least twice a year we talk to TV about the mission There are various good ideas that can be suggested. That's it, I'm not assigning anybody here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm asking the senator for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u136	Thank you very much. I meant rather... I'll finish up. I mean, the lessons with... I meant the '60s shows, not necessarily the '80s. Exactly, but I didn't hear any voice from the senators during the debate suggesting the use of these materials on today's educational television. And from what you've said, I understand that you've acquired such knowledge that the senators of this term in today's debate suggest whether or not they're suggesting that you use these materials on the television educational mission. Well, I'd like to say that I haven't heard such a suggestion. And I'd also like to ask you if you've heard anything like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u137	I haven't heard such a suggestion. Anyway, I didn't say anything like that. It could be checked on the video. I am not accusing you of anything, Madam President. I just wanted to ask, 'cause I didn't really get it. I understand you're not going to make that suggestion from today's debate because there was no such thing. I've already said that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u139	I would like to ask you if you agree with the opinion expressed in relation to the article. 88. 3 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. This opinion states that it is prohibited for Member States to introduce aid measures until the notification procedure leads to a final decision. The second element of this opinion that I quote is that the lack of notification of aid in the design phase of financial assistance violates the legal procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the president for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u141	The answer to this question will be in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u143	I have a question for you. Has the National Radio and Television Council dealt with this resolution? If so, what is her position and if not, do you have a position on this resolution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Madam President. What resolution is this about? Excuse me? What resolution is this about? I heard: this resolution. So I don't know if it's about what... It's about a resolution, the subject matter of which is... I presume, Madam President, that the senator's question in the debate on the draft resolution concerns the draft resolution that we are discussing. I think it's here... I'm sorry, I'm not in this discussion, I'm here as a person... I wouldn't want to play a semantic distraction here, which means taking part in the discussion. Believe me, Madam President, and I say this without a shadow of malice, I have the impression that you are participating in our debate, moreover, only the participants of the debate in a place such as the Senate of the Republic can participate in it, however ridiculous it would sound. So, as I understand it, the senator's question concerns a resolution that we are debating.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u145	I absolutely do not express my personal views on this subject and I am not authorized to present any position of the National Council. I don't know of such a position that I could present as an official.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, I have a question for you. The title of the resolution refers to the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. In the last paragraph, we read that the election campaign in public media must have objectivity and respect for constitutional and statutory records. My question is: to your knowledge and according to the position of the National Council, are all electoral committees represented in accordance with constitutional and legal provisions, as well as with the provisions of the electoral code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u149	I don't have a hard track record on this, but I think all the committees... I don't know the committee that's protesting, there's no such protest coming in. I also have a table here, the TV Election Center showed a chart of what free election committees broadcasts looked like. It existed, too. They were given in a large number, because there were 112 episodes during the election campaign. And when it comes to the balance in the media or in the news, it was at first that I asked if someone was missing. I'd be happy to make a note of that, and I'll try to give it a go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very... Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind my asking, one word... But, Senator, it wasn't your question now, it was... It was. Oh, no, that was your questions. I'm sorry. Sure, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u151	Yes, that was my question, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, as I understand it, there were no protests from the electoral committees in terms of air time in terms of recordings, there were no protests related to any discrimination against the committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u152	At the moment, they're not familiar to me unless something's come today. Until now, as far as I know, there has been no protest, although I will check it out and I will also be happy to give it to you in writing. That's what I'd ask for in writing, too. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u153	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u154	I would like to ask you a question about these meetings that take place once a year. I understand that these are regular meetings in this term, they take place twice a year, right? I'm asking about meeting with the public media.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u155	At least twice... At least, right? These meetings take place according to needs, at a time when financial and programme plans are established, when something like this is happening, that it is worth giving our position, also when something is happening that interests us when we are interested in the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u156	So if you can answer now... Or answer in writing. I would ask for such information as to how many of these meetings took place during this term of the National Council, why they were devoted and if you can tell us how long such meetings are and where they are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u158	Mrs. Senator, the meetings are held at the headquarters of the National Council, in the sitting room, which usually lasts about 2 hours, probably no longer. Why are they consecrated? Yeah, it's about mission-related issues, programming and funding plans, monitoring issues, the results of various observations, monitoring. May I, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u159	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u160	I'll ask you a question. Of course, I'm not asking about personal data, I'm asking about the function of the participants. What is the composition of such meetings?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u161	In the composition: 5 persons, members of the National Council, several persons or a full composition, i.e. 10 or 12 persons, as regards the heads of departments in the National Council, possibly assistants and invited persons. There are always a few people invited from radio or television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u162	It is I who ask to be informed in writing about the people who participate from the media in these public meetings. I'm gonna ask for that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u163	Thank you. No further questions. As a result, I'm opening... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, good. I would like to inform you that the vice-president of the National Council has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Michał Kaminski, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Aleksandr Swed, and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of speakers. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and requests of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and, in the case of senators who have participated remotely in the meeting, of them by electronic means to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Will I still be needed? I don't know what the habit is... Madam President, you will be able to respond after this discussion if you wish. Perhaps there will be some legislative proposals, then you will have an opportunity to respond to these proposals. But if you... We're sitting right now, so maybe I'll take a look at the protocol. I understand, ma'am. I understand. You may, but you don't have to... Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'm going to express my regret, just like this. I regretted the fact that it was at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media that we dealt with this political and biased resolution. You are talking about politicising and subjugating the media of public political power. Well, what about your government? Allow me to quote here a passage from the article entitled "Purge in TVP" of 20 April 2015: "What landscape is thus painted after the four-year term of Julius Braun? When he became president of TVP on 5 March 2011, the public broadcaster employed 3,972 people. Today, TV has 2,000,874 employees, i.e. almost 1,100 fewer people. After leaving for Leasing Team, a large group of journalists left 292 on TV. Next: After outsourcing, TVP no longer employs a single editor, make-up artist or graphics. And one more part: The movers are talking about trauma. They didn't expect a company they'd spent many years working hard to do that way. After 37 years of working on TVP, I can't shake the feeling of humiliation when I have to ask for a pass to enter a company that I've always talked about proudly: "My television has written one of the journalists in a letter to the Association of Journalists of the Republic of Poland. And what were the effects of this politicisation of television in the state of government? Exactly. About that in a minute. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, in this draft political resolution prepared by the Senators of the Civic Coalition, we are talking about ensuring objectivity, equality and integrity in presenting candidates in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. If we are talking about the presidential election, I think it is worth referring to those which took place in 2015. Let us remind and emphasize that they took place at a time when she had ruled in our country for nearly 8 years, but also in public media, the coalition of PO-PSL, the environment which presents to us today's draft resolution. At this point, I would like to remind you of the statistics I quoted at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. In March and April, then President Bronisław Komorowski took 745 minutes and 66 seconds on TVP Info, while Andrzej Duda took 103 minutes and 40 seconds. So President Komorowski was shown 7,21 times more often than Andrzej Duda. Disproportion for other candidates was even greater. This is how you performed objectivity, equality and integrity in presenting candidates in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. So if you are making such appeals, such as this political resolution, then this appeal should be addressed to you first. I am applying for the rejection of this draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u165	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Radio and Television Act clearly defines the public service mission of public media, a mission which is financed by the subscription of recipients. Art. 21, how important and often emphasized, says literally: public radiophony and television carry out a public mission, offering, on the basis of the principles set out in the Act, the entire society and its various parts, various programmes with Okay, here's the note! Plurality, impartiality, balance and independence. What's more, lips. 2 says that programs and other services should be guided by responsibility for the word. Moreover, these programmes should promote the free development of the views of all citizens. Today we are discussing the role of public media, which is de facto, as I mentioned earlier, clearly defined and described in the Act. The role of the media, which in the last 3 years received public subsidies of PLN 4 billion. Never before have the media received any grants. Interestingly, the biggest beneficiary of these grants is, of course, public television, for example, in the last time we fought and wanted to transfer funds to the cancer programme, public television received about PLN 1 billion 700 million and the rest was divided into field TV units and radio stations. As you can imagine, it is easy to make different kinds of changes in the situation of such shaped and co-financed public media. And we are seeing these changes, which are not the case in other democratic countries. Well, we see that the media is completely subject to political pressure. World media, major global media, e.g. Washington Post and Reuters describe the situation in Polish public media as an example of denial of democratic rules and a return to censorship before 1989. It introduced human resources management into the public media through fear, as we discussed during the debate on the situation in the Radio Trinity, and creativity and reliable journalism were replaced by primitive service. We also observe the increasing costs of running public media and unprecedented affirmation, impressed with our own productions. Video: Zenek film, which was a visual, image and economic failure. This production was spent on PLN 5 million, of which public television paid PLN 2 million. It was assumed that during the start week, the film would watch over 1.5 million viewers, and only 200,000 watched it. Come on. The public mission has been replaced by political aggression, there are duplicated and fabricated false information about opponents of the power camp, and media slander campaigns have been observed for a long time. A line has been crossed, introducing censorship into public media, slander. Worst of all, we have recently seen an attempt to involve a political sphere in this game, which should remain untouchable and strictly personal. I am referring here to the question of one of the TVP Info journalists addressed to President Trzaskowski and a clear hint concerning his children and accepted religious practices. What is the responsibility for a word in the face of this situation and concrete examples? A lot of questions arise. How do public media want to ensure fair and impartial treatment of candidates when experience shows that we are dealing with total bias? Is it assumed that independent external supervision of published electoral content will operate in public media? And if so, who would exercise such supervision? Given all of our experience and observations we can make to date, looking at the public media, I believe that the Senate's resolution on the role of public media during the electoral campaign is absolutely justified and extremely necessary, and the Radio and Television Act should be credo, whose public media should always be guided in their work and in their activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u167	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, no authority has done as good for television as it should. There have been accidents, omissions, situations where politicians should explain themselves. But today the situation is special and this resolution, this Senate initiative is linked to the scale of the problems that have accumulated around public media. I am talking about television, about radio, about the radio Triple, about all these activities that have huge I will start with one sentence, an important sentence, expressed in writing: an order for the free formation of the public, the preservation of pluralism on TVP is possible only if there is a clear distance to the current political manager. I stress: keeping the distance to the current political manager. This is not the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or any policy of the Civic Platform. This is the opinion expressed by the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński. I would also like to draw attention to the amendment proposed in 2009, the amendment to the Public Media Act, which ended effectively, as it turned out, with a presidential veto. Why? Because there were no implementing acts and, above all, no effective notification of a project as an aid scheme within the meaning of Article. 87 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. Today we have 2 billion additionally allocated this year to public television, during the electoral campaign, without this notification and without taking care of the legal provisions, for which President Lech Kaczyński spoke at the time. What didn't like Lech Kaczyński when he vetoed the possibility of changing public media? The use of public funds depends on the decisions of the rulers. I want to stress this very strongly, because today we have exactly the situation that Lech Kaczyński warned us about. It was. I'll remind you. For licences, not as much as for the present time to throw in funds by one act, by one decision. The reference to the National Radio and Television Council, today referred to, was then formulated very precisely, also in writing. The National Council of Radiophony and Television was set up to uphold freedom of expression, implement citizens' right to information and social interest. And then Lech Kaczyński said: not to confuse it with the interests of the state, the social interest is not equal to the interests of the state. The creation of independent public television was considered to be an important achievement of the period of systemic transformation. These are the quotations from 2009 indicating what route we have travelled and how we have drifted away from those standards that we have tried to maintain together. I would add that I am a supporter of private media, but in conjunction with public media. Poland is too big a country to allow itself to function only in the area of private media. It is simply that public media must be part of the Polish state of affairs. Today they are part of the state's right, but not the Polish state, only the PiS, and practically exclusively. I say it with regret. I also want to pass on information which I think is important when it comes to looking at, reviewing public media today, important from the point of view of education or from the point of view of culture, from the point of view of, in short, all areas relating to the interests of the Polish state and our security. What I found in the media in general and what was always the most valuable to me were programs or documents such as this titled, notabene beautifully, Sometimes life can be bearable, means a beautiful document about Wisław Szymborska, our Nobel Prize winner. This document was made not on public television, but on TVN. Like a fantastic document dedicated to Zbigniew Brzeziński. I stress this because there are numerous examples showing where this reliability and care for the interests of the Polish state, and especially the quality of the document, has shifted It moved from public television to private television. Let's look at statistics, especially those related to the condition of media in Poland at all. We have a very strong young generation that up to 36% block advertising on social media and other media that is used online. That's a lot of efficiency. Well, in this respect, only Greece is ahead of us. But what does that mean? This means that public media funding from budget resources, from subscription funds, in addition to those from advertising, is particularly important from the point of view of market regulation, from an economic, economic and financial point of view. Let's look at the data on the integrity of the transmissions. We have results from 2019 and 2018. From 2020 we have not yet, but it is even worse. In the first place, when it comes to information, we have private media, TVN and Polsat. Then there's the radio station, last year it was... In 2018, it was RMF. At the end of the bet, there was public television. I will also remind you of the assessments that occur on a scale of 1 and 10 in international studies, where RMF, Polsat, and TVN are in the 7 points out of 10 possible, and TVP is below 5, 4.7, as I remember. It was better to have tabloids in these studies, and that's a fact. I would like to draw attention to three elements, above all to supervision. This supervision has been constitutionally formulated. Its body is the National Radio and Television Council, not the National Media Council, introduced to make personal changes. A law that takes away some of the powers of a constitutional institution is outrageous. The next two issues concern evaluations. The initiative of today's resolution has a very strong basis in assessing the state of affairs, what the public media look like at the present time, during the current governments. I would like to remind you that in 2008 public television had good ratings. I am talking about CBOS ratings. 'Cause she was 82%. In just the last six years, she's gone down to about 50%. It's a 30% loss. In 2017 these assessments were up to 60% (57%) But it's getting worse. There is no way to ignore such information that the public media opinion has been so corrupted over such a short period of time. It didn't happen by accident, just because of the competition. I'd like to draw your attention. also those assessments that you have tried to address, in my opinion, inefficiently. When the most frequently shown politicians were pointed out in the 2019 campaign, the first six were only representatives of Law and Justice. Only, so I don't know where the results come from talking about such ideal proportions as one senator pointed out. With regard to sources of revenue It's worth talking about. I will remind you that this amendment, which was debated in the Sejm, of 700 million, had, so to speak, its source point much, much earlier, in 2009. There was talk of financial losses resulting on the one hand from various types of redundancies, for combatants etc., etc., and on the other hand From an unpaid subscription. In about two years, this has been at around 500 and 700 million. If the subscription had been cancelled, this amount would have been sufficient in terms of regional media and radio, but not enough in terms of television, the fact is, therefore, that TV's right to advertising has not been waived. But on the other hand, I'm on my way to the end. It must be remembered that since today we have 2 billion PLN allocated to public television with a pre-compensating compensation for lost revenue, the notification according to my opinion is necessary. And one last thing. Indeed, the lack of equality, the lack of objectivity, the absence of all those elements which are particularly important in the election campaign, particularly sensitive. So if we can appeal tonight by the Senate resolution, then we have to do it and we should do it for the sake of this election campaign. She's already been so beaten up that regret is the minimum of what we can do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u169	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Today we are discussing the role of public media in the political sphere. One might ask: what role should public media play? 'Cause we're talking about them. In our public life? And here it can be said that it will be a role, and I will use 2 extreme examples of the BBC, about which President Kurski said that there is a bar like many other editorial offices, or Russia Today. The difference is, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental. I think you know the difference. Russia Today is above all a propaganda tube showing great achievements of power in Russia, and the BBC is the fourth power that politicians do not have access to when it comes to what happens, how it happens and how it is presented. I would like to quote you only two passages from such a decalogue or legislation that the BBC must follow. Namely, the BBC must show life in all diversity. He can't just show how great Law and Justice are, that we're winning the fight against the coronavirus... I'll tell you how we win. An exact report came out yesterday. And I would just like to say to you, so as not to go into the details, that Montenegro has virtually no more Coronavirus and invited you to visit Montenegro to spend their vacation with the citizens of 123 countries. Do you know what countries in Europe have not been invited by Montenegro? Poland, Romania, Russia and Ukraine. Well, things like that happen, mistakes happen, mistakes happen. But what does our TV show? A huge success, a huge success. And now: there were also issues of response to reservations. I would like to say to you that in those provisions which the BBC has, it is written under the threat of various types of sanctions, that every letter, every suggestion of the BBC must be answered with an argument. Why? Because it's the fourth independent power. And this fourth power must come from a message about the role of politicians in public life. After all, the state has been doing a very important thing for five years - the dominance of politics over justice, but also the dominance of politicians and politicians in the media. Everything about criticism is in Russia Today about the opposition. And as you'll see, I've been on public television from time to time, and I want to tell you that I haven't heard anyone from the opposition do anything good in my life. And this sewage leaked into the Vistula, and that thing... Well, it happens in a man's life that he's doing something good. I'm talking to you because it's your colleagues who do these programs. Tell them that man is not so constructed that he only does bad things. Now a few statistics. I'll have it later... We'll exchange data when we talk to Senator Swede. Because I'm curious about the senator's source. And what I want to say is this: these are data on monitoring of public media. And I would like to say this: on TVP Info in January 2014 the Civic Platform took about 35% of the time, and PiS together with Solidarna Polska took about 26%. Right? There's one... Too much. Maybe it shouldn't be 9%, 8%, 7%, 5% Well, let's take a look at January 2018. What do you see? Law and Justice 65.6% And the Platform together with the Modern 20%. Is that equality in the media? Should this be the role of public media? Showing power that gets up in the morning, driving, watching, showing only positive things... Well, that's what television is made in non-democratic countries, to say the least. And this is because you have the primacy of media policy, the primacy of politics over judicial authority and all other actions in your actions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not quote all the statistics, although I have printed myself more. You have to talk about them, because when we say it's TVP PiS, you're offended that this is some kind of epithet. But it's true. It's where the main actors are. These are the politicians of Law and Justice, the best, the most effective, the smartest. All superlatives. And everything about opposition policies is wrong. These are the losers, these are the people who have made thousands of mistakes, etc. Do you think there's a discussion on public television about Minister Szumowski? No, it turns out the opposition is attacking a great hero. And this is public television? No, it's TV. At your service, this is political television. Ladies and gentlemen, I have printed here a summary of the 2015 presidential elections. Mr. Senator, we'll exchange these data. I'll take it from you, and I'll give it to you so we can compare it. Well, in life, it's like adding. If you don't bring fractions into the common denominator, you can't compare numbers. I have here an overview of the time of the candidate's exposure in the first round, the exposure in both the information services and the press broadcasts of all the media. I'll read it briefly. Andrzej Duda, then performing as a candidate, had almost 3 hours at his disposal, Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, 2 hours 30 minutes. As for the exposure of candidates to the office of president at a time when there were only two candidates, in all media it was so that Mr Andrzej Duda as a candidate had 4 hours 20 minutes, and Bronisław Komorowski had 4 hours 40 minutes. Well, there was a 20-minute lead. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the case in all the media together, and now I will tell you how it was in the public media. Well, there was no advantage of Bronisław Komorowski here either. I would also like to say, in comparison, that in January 2020. PiS together with Solidarna Polska were shown on public television by 43.5% Time. And how was January 2014? PiS 28%, Civic Platform 36%. There's an 8% advantage here, too, but there's no four of them. - Five. - or a six-fold imbalance like this. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, two more words about the current elections. I already gave that information at the committee meeting. These are the data from the weekly to Things. So that there were no accusations that I was just quoting the Gazeta Wyborcza, I also took another letter. And the magazine says... But it's also a very nice commentary. Namely, Mr Andrzej Duda, as President, has been in public media for 543 minutes, Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska for 49 minutes, Hołownia for 7 minutes. The editor asks: what are you complaining about when she got 49 minutes? Well, first of all, compared to 543 minutes, there is a big difference here, and secondly and most importantly, 48 of these 49 minutes were taken by critic Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska. It was in April, but it was even better in March. Mr. President Duda was only a candidate for 6.5 minutes, but as president For 25 hours. Margaret Kidawa-Błońska had 19 minutes, of which 18 minutes were devoted to criticism. And you're talking about equality? You're talking about public media? It's a PiS-owska tube. That's what the facts and figures show. Well, sometimes you can disagree with what's on TV, but... sometimes I'm with my friends in Eastern Poland and there, in a hotel like this, there's only public television. Well, I have to watch it. I like watching TV, so I watch TV. I want to tell you that my colleague, who studied in Russia in the 1970s, once said to me: "You know, Leszek, I'm experiencing this déjà vu. When I turn on public television, I feel like I was in Moscow in the 1970s. On public television, you know who's good, who's bad, etc. Everything's served like a platter. A man doesn't have to think at all, because he already knows everything: power is good, opposition is just any, Kidawa-Błońska doesn't do anything. Well, now Rafał Trzaskowski will be targeted. What we turn on TV will be shown by Rafał Trzaskowski And that's the sewer, and that's the son's communion. Well, we know you guys. Since the head of public television is independent of the policy manager, which is President Kurski, we can be sure that this is independent television which objectively shows numbers, facts and events. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to appeal for something. I think it was Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski who said that we haven't been able to develop a model that we... I'm talking about the BBC. The point is that it's independent television, which shows the whole cross-section and follows the values. At the BBC until hours. 9:00 p.m. cannot be e.g. play drastic scenes, etc. This is real TV. And what you've done now is television. purely political. You may, Mr. Senator, be outraged, but facts They say it clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish this subject of my departure to the east wall. When I was sitting in a hotel, there were strikes of yellow vests in France. And guess what the public television showed you. She showed the most brutal scenes, showed how the French police deal with the strikers, how they carry them out, how the gassing continues. And what was shown as a counterargument? Guess what. Well, in Poland, strikers can walk, watch... that they carried Frasyniuk away, they didn't show it anymore. Beautiful: see how in Poland the government cares about strikers, and in France it is them who do it; what kind of country is it? This is what you have created television because you have implanted on public television as something of the greatest primacy of politics over integrity, the primacy of politics over reliable information, the primacy of politics within the entire social, political spectrum, everything that is shown on television. Mr. Senator... I'm almost done. And it's the most important thing. Well, social control at the BBC is very strong. And what kind of control? Are we talking here? National Media Council? Is that a checkup? Ex-President. Well, I would answer today as the President of the National Council would answer. I think it would be no worse for me to respond to the role of the National Council in this important undertaking. So let it go when it comes to the issue of the political management of television. Let him return, let's say, to some point providing at least some objective television, because what Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski has quoted shows what a decline in confidence in public television is. I hope that, as Rafał Trzaskowski said, soon will be the end of such television. We need to create television completely independent of politicians. Also these Civic Platforms, but especially the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u171	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal, are you... Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please. Mr. Marshal, my name has been mentioned. Can I correct it? But... Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll just answer to the senator, actually, in two sentences. My data, which I quoted, is, of course, data from the National Radio and Television Council... Oh! ...which were made available to the public in 2015. And I quoted that on TVP Info in March and April, immediately before the election campaign in 2015, President Bronisław Komorowski took 745 minutes and 66 seconds, and then the candidate for president Andrzej Duda 103 minutes and 40 seconds, i.e. President Komorowski was shown 7,21 times more often than the candidate for president Andrzej Duda. Mr. Senator, if it's really that bad right now, then why... I asked the president of the National Radio and Television Council if there were any protests. Somehow the committee of Margaret Kidawa Błońska did not seek protest here, and it is supposed to be so bad. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, can I just add one sentence?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u173	No. Mr. Senator... No, listen... A little culture. The senator's on the stand. Yes, sir. Excuse me. Thank you. Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Before I can tell you what I want to say, I'm gonna say yes. It's a pity that you don't have Senator Orzechowska, because she asked at some point what happened, why some of the opposition people stopped coming to interview and talk to public television, to TVP Info, etc. I don't think she got the full answer, so I want to complete that. This happened, among other things. because neither the National Radio and Television Council nor the Polish Television Board have any consequences for journalists employed in TVP Info, who have their programs with different titles... e.g. Mr Ziemkiewicz in his program, at a time of high viewing, allows himself to name a social group, our residents a scab. Or Mrs. Cucumber, who's having conversations in her program, and for which the most important thing is religious affiliation, and she points out... Is Mr Marcin Wolski, who has travelled a long way from PZPR to PiS and who in his programs allows himself to discipline, reprimand journalists, representatives, etc. I think Mrs. Nutchowska would be satisfied with my answer. And that's the reason: because people who have something to say and use arguments, not insults and such, I would say, street behavior, will not talk to such people. However, until today, for example on those whom I mentioned, no conclusions have been drawn in the National Radio and Television Council, no recommendation has been made to the management of the Polish Television. During the previous term, we asked the National Radio and Television Council at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, at the time of the report, as it responded to it, and always, in every matter we have asked about, the National Radio and Television Council, whether in the person of its chairman or vice-president or members of the governing college, said: it is not our competence, it is not in the Radio and Television Act, there is no such provision in our Rules of Procedure, etc. The same with the Council of National Media, which is some free electron circulating in the space of the Republic of Poland, virtually nowhere, created exclusively for Mr Czabański to be called, had some title and some co-opted friends who would guarantee this board the right views. This advice gives exactly the same views as they are asked. They don't have any forwards, as they claim, no possibilities, nothing like that... That's it. I'm done explaining. But why do I think that this kind of explanation should be made, and this statement is necessary for me? Well, it is related to the subject I want to raise today, which I have already addressed at the last meeting of our cultural committee. Ladies and gentlemen, all bodies act on the basis of laws, laws, decisions legally recognised. Right? And our entire media reality is covered in some kind of regulation. Mostly in the Radio and TV Act. Well, for today, or actually for a year now, this law on radio and television is such a stump, because through done ad for the purpose of the circumstances, the amendment has been mutilated. There are some things left that are not compatible with other decisions and arrangements, and it's all flawed. But there are also a number of important, important provisions in this law that would be an interpretation, an indicator for the functioning and operation of something such as programme councils, such as the National Radio and Television Council... I would like to give you an example of how badly this law works, precisely in terms of the programming board. This is, you could say, for some time now my horse, my hobby. That's what I'm talking about because I don't know if such a figure exists in any country at all and if it's even possible. Well, it's in the article. 28a... I'd like to quote exactly... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 28a is said to include 15 members appointed by the National Media Council. This is a record created at the time when the National Media Council was established. So the National Radio and Television Council took over these competences and transferred them to the National Media Council. This ends with any activity in this field. No monitoring, no watching what these programming boards do, and so on, because that's already an upload that goes to the National Radio and Television Council. And now see: 10 members of the program board It's from the old record. It represents parliamentary groups, the remaining 5 members are made up of people who have a record and experience in the field of culture and media. What does that mean? That means that 10 people are politically appointed. And that's established in this bill. It is said that it depends on the size of the political option and the option that has the most parliamentarians, has such an allocation of members, an option that has fewer parliamentarians, has such an allocation, etc. It's divided, and it's supposed to be 15 people in total. Why am I being stubborn about this and why is this one big scandal for me? Because they're either politicians or parliamentarians. I'm one of those myself. I was called by my political option, since all the options have been called, and I have always protested, I said it cannot be because it is an advisory body. The Programme Board is the body which is enshrined in this Act and is of an advisory nature. She's an advisory in front of the president or the TV board, so they should be professionals in different fields. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it was my pleasure that at the moment when the Radio Commission turned into a television company and radio companies, together with Mark Markowski, who was then appointed by Lech Wałęsa to prepare the project for the creation of the program board, I was able to work on it. And we've made it clear that 10 people are going to go to the program board, first of all, and secondly, they're supposed to be purely specialists in the areas that public television uses: creators, outstanding journalists. It was supposed to be an apolitical body. There were supposed to be people here who didn't belong to any political option. And it's written in this project that it's supposed to be people who don't belong to any political option. Candidates may propose universities, television heads or public radios with which such personalities cooperate, journalistic associations, etc. And this ten was supposed to be the representatives of all the professions with which he lives and with which public television works, so, as I say, creators, journalists, media experts, etc. See what has happened since that project was voted out and adopted... I can name a few names, a few people who entered the program board at the time, who were offered it and who accepted it. Anyway, it was honorable, free of charge. Wajda was there, Kapuściński was there, there were outstanding media experts, Edward Pałasz was there, an outstanding composer, etc. And that's how it looked, this path I can name the 10 people that were invited to participate. At the moment, that is, for some time now, something has happened that actually only politicians, mainly from the Sejm, are offering favor by doing to the Senate, because the Senate can appoint one person from the Senate, propose members of the program council. That's what I've been telling everyone, and everyone's on the agenda. At the Polonia Television Programme Council, which is to work to bring our country's compatriots closer to what is happening in our country, to bring them closer to their motherhood, to present objectively, Mr Dworczyk is the chairman. I took the liberty of taking this advice, Mr. Courtman. We all know what he's doing today, don't we? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mrs. Marshal, time is up. I'm on my way to the end. I took the liberty of asking Mr Dworczyk a question at the programme council, whether he was ashamed that he was the chairman of the programme council, which should be partyless. What did Mr. Dworczyk say to me without blinking an eye: but the bill of this He doesn't forbid it. And it's true that there's no software board in this bill... there's nowhere... There is a record that says that the members of the programme board are non-partisan and independent and that they are professionals in many industries and fields. That's the smallest example. I could talk a lot more about the National Council, etc. Why have I given you this one example, and why am I leaning over the bill, over the radio and television? Because I think it's time for Parliament to take on a job and either amend it and restore certain values that all these bodies should have, or just write a bill. And it is only in this way that both the public television board and the programme boards would not have politicians and people in politics, but would have to rely on people who are not political. Perhaps then the media that want to call themselves national, and far from it, will be able to have at least a percentage of this quality. So I appeal to all of us: let's get into the radio and television bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, once again, we're discussing public media. This is a discussion that we will repeat as long as these public media look like they are now, as long as the message is the same as before. Today, the time for this resolution is linked to the electoral campaign, when all negative elements in public media are particularly sharp, will influence and influence the outcome of the election. I will not discover anything when I say that the media since 2015, since PiS's takeover of power has undergone a huge change. And it's not a good change. It's a change for the worse. A change that makes us wonder what to do with those media that are called public media, and they're basically party media. I was involved in the adoption of a law on the new system in public media, the National Radio and Television Council. That was thoughtful. so that there is a buffer between public media and politics. Between media and politicians. This buffer has basically been removed. And not only because a non-constitutional National Media Council has been set up, which has taken away part of the important competences of the National Council, but also because these bodies have been filled according to a single party key. Previously, in the National Council, there were people associated with different political options. But with different ones. And thus they looked upon one another's hands, and controlled one another. There's a single situation here right now. Well, except, you could say, it's the National Media Radio. But the exception made so that those who are from another option have no influence, no meaning. And, ladies and gentlemen, the committee of culture that took care of the situation, already extreme, the photos from Kazik's chart of hits, which caused the disorganization of the Trinity and the destruction of the position of this radio, which, however, did not deal with politics, did not deal with political matters... And it seemed like it was gonna go on like this. Well, it completely destroyed the radio station. The Committee on Culture and Media has asked for the removal of the Head of the Trinity and the President of the public radio to calm the situation. We've half been successful. But it wasn't us. Because the letter with which Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Zdrojewska, asked for the cancellation of those two people who are responsible to calm down there... Well, you should have and you should have made that decision. It's been taken as far as the head of Three is concerned. But in response to a letter to the President of the National Media Council, Minister Czabański, attorney Tomasz Giziński, advisor to the President needed a lawyer to reply to this request. It writes and explains that the President of the National Media Council is entitled to apply for the cancellation of the boards of public broadcasting companies. Well, all right, it would seem, but the conclusion... It further notes that the proposal submitted by the Senate Committee on Culture and Media, as incompatible with the rules of the National Media Council, cannot therefore be taken into account. It means that, on the basis of the rules that I understand, the majority, or Mr Czabański, has passed, are not relevant at all. And we learn here that of course, there is some pluralism on the National Media Council, for 5 people there are 2 people who are not from PiS. But there is also the rules of procedure which they have adopted, and under these rules, the counsellor, the lawyer of the President of Czabanski, says, "Screw each other." That's just the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is dramatic. The situation is dramatic because especially Polish Television, but also radio information programs have caused and perpetuate in Poland the division, the social division, the division of the population into Oni, that's us. There are such negative words as chaos, attack, marketplace and total opposition. And in comparison with this to the current authority, the words are said: help, security, stability. This kind of transmission is on a daily basis. This is particularly true for the most important information programme on public television, or news. At 7:30, I sit in front of the TV to hear something new, something that surprises me. Well, nothing surprises me now, nothing. I'm not surprised that in response to Schetin's words, which PiS compared to locusts and said she needed to be shaken. Of course, this comparison is bad, bad news shows the Tutsi murdered in Rwanda. That's the connection. When you talk about the pro-German politics of Donald Tusk and point out, it is said that this politician, very important for Poland, for us... For PiS, it does not have to be important and important, but for us, for some of society and for some politicians, it is very important and important and this part prides itself on having such a policy. When you talk about his pro-German politics, because Merkel appointed him. That's what they say. The news shows Donald Tusk's shots with Hitler and Stalin... i.e. with photos of Hitler and Stalin. Well, ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal... That's why I'm saying nothing surprises me. I'm coming to the end. But what I'm trying to say is that I have a quantitative analysis of the Polish Radio program in front of me for April. Unfortunately, there is no TV, but it is about Polish Radio. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the amount of time in Polish Radio, which was devoted to PiS, is thousands of minutes, about 7 thousand minutes, and the amount of time devoted to opposition is a few hundred minutes. And that's the proportion. But as I say, it's not just about proportions. If you talk about the Platform, about the opposition in the negative words I mentioned, and about the PiS only in positive words and you point out only positive circumstances, then this quantitative weighing does not answer the question of what the television broadcast looks like. Television Poland, especially television, but information programs on the radio are also coming to this, this is a tool and an extension of the PiS policy. Mr. Marshal, you... This has to stop. I hope that at some point this will end, and that it will stop beating this cesspool into another policy from the Platform, President Rafał Trzaskowski. Because after Adamowicz, who was so attacked... At the moment, the public television cesspool is pissing on President Trzaskowski just because he is a candidate who is running against President Andrzej Duda and has a chance to win. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u177	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u178	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Perhaps it wouldn't make sense to speak in the debate on the state of public television and public radio, if not for the fact that we are standing on the threshold of another election campaign before the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Perhaps there would be no point in preparing a special resolution of the Senate on this matter if the Senate had no obligation to respond to every evil that is happening in Poland. With such an evil concerning media, which still a few years ago were public, and in 2016 were plundered by Poles and taken over in a hostile way by the ruling party, we are dealing with this takeover of them. Each campaign that is directed against individual professional groups in Poland starts with TVP. Whether it's a campaign against doctors, against judges, against non-governmental organisations or against specific individuals, television is always called public until recently. And this is also our experience, Polish experience with the propaganda of the Polish People's Republic, because she either joined the campaigns, or inaugurated campaigns of hatred against different people and various professional groups. Therefore, with that experience in mind, we today have a duty as Senate to respond because this election campaign is crucial for the future of our country. And because yesterday the Sejm rejected basically all the amendments that were prepared by us in the Senate, including among others. the one that talked about the need to allocate more antenna time for candidates in the so-called. Public media, this resolution makes sense. Because this resolution is a warning, because this resolution is an appeal, because finally this resolution is a warning signal that the Senate will not tolerate that there will be no acceptance in our House for what is happening on television and on the radio so-called public during the election campaign before the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Ms Teresa Bochwic, on behalf of the National Radio and Television Council, used the phrase: "There is no country in the European Union where there would be no public media. Well, there's a country and unfortunately it's called Poland. Because the media, which were public and which belonged to the citizens, were stolen by the ruling party and taken over in a hostile manner in 2016. We have warned against this in this House, and then we have talked many times about the consequences. It is not only Poles who see it, but also others, other countries or such famous and prestigious organizations as Freedom House in the United States or Reporters without Borders. Poland's position in media freedom rankings decreased radically. The hearts of countries are seen as Poland fell from its 18th position in 2015 to its sixty-second position in the press freedom ranking conducted by the prestigious organization of Reporters without Borders. The hearts of countries when the American prestigious Freedom House describes in the following years the successive stages of submission to the executive power of public media in Poland. I have decided to sign this resolution because it calls for even at this moment, so important for the future of our country, when citizens will elect a new president, so-called. Public media have ensured objectivity, integrity and equality. I have no doubt about the bad intentions of those who run public media. They know what institution they're working in, they know what institution they're running, and they finally know whose political orders they're doing. The point is that the Senate should bear witness, show that this is not the TV and not the public radio. And to water or confirm his will that, in the future, at the moment of political change in our country, public media actually become public media, not government media, which are a factory of untruth in the hands of the rulers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u179	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u180	Dear Marshal, Dear Senate! I have decided to speak on this matter, provoked by Senator Orzechowska, who has said such words that there are basically no facts here, and she expects facts. Well, I'll give you these facts from my own experience. Ladies and gentlemen, for 17 years I was the president of the city, the third in Lubuskie Voivodeship, I was the president of the Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship, I was a member of the Board of the Polish Cities Association, I was a co-founder of the National Agreement of Local Organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have experienced various governments, started my self-government career in 2002, which means I survived SLD, PiS I survived, PO, PSL, and now I am dealing with current governments, and with full responsibility I must say, from my own experience, that it was not so bad even for communists. In recent years of communist rule, before 1989. And I was also on the radio at the time, and I saw what was going on in the public media. It wasn't that bad. And the evidence? Ladies and gentlemen, I, as a public person with many, many important functions, i.e. a lot to say, over the last 5 years on regional television I'm not even talking about public media as defined by Program 1 or TVP Info, I'm talking about regional television As I say, for 5 years as a person with very many public functions I was only once. One time for five years. I'm the one who's been issued the so-called. Wolf ticket. You know what a wolf ticket meant at the time of the commune. Or else, I was recorded, banned from public media, of course I still have it, as a senator I have never once been invited to public media, nor to radio, nor to television, not once. Even though I'm an independent senator, partyless, but I'm politically incorrigible. So regional television, our Gorzow TVP3 or West Radio, my beloved favorite radio, made a record of me. Journalists and cameramen I know, because for several years I've worked with them, they're running away to see me. They have a restraining order against me, and in private conversations, they say they have a restraining order. And here we're talking about public media, national media. For national media I, Senator of the Republic of Poland, long-term self-government officer, president of the city, am a leper. Leprosy! Let me repeat: in five years I was once admitted to public television, our regional. Materials about me, if they appear. Without my participation, of course. They are biased or even offensive, without the ability to defend myself or to respond to the charges. National media are spreading hatred, pissing Poles on Poles I am a literal example of this. If someone's using the term "sleeping"... Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but this is what I sign up for. The proportions? I will repeat: 1 every 5 years while the politicians of the PiS in the West Radio, my regional radio, or on public television, national television, in the Gorz Television, in the third program, occur practically every week or sometimes several times a day. So you can count these proportions. I'll say it again: I've had such an honor once every five years... but now maybe it's not an honor to call it. Complaints 'cause the vice-president of the National Radio and Television Council said: Write complaints! Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been so widespread that people do not believe in these complaints, in the effectiveness of these complaints. So when you write complaints, it's like you used to say: you can write on the Berdychs... I won't write such complaints because I know it doesn't make any sense. Protests? Of course, you can protest. But we know what the result of these protests is. This pathology. 'Cause it's pathology. It has become so common that no one believes in the effectiveness of these protests anymore. The lecture on what's going on is the ratings. You just need to check what she's like. It's either listening. My beloved West Radio, which once had a really huge range, today has minimal. This is punishment for what happens in public media. But, after all, it's a mechanism that makes you run for office... Me, running for president of the city and winning this election or the senator. And there were no guarantees of equal rights to face up to my party opponents. I've managed, I've scored almost 80%. support and I won the Senate elections, without public media and despite the fact that there was hatred. But what kind of justice can we talk about here? Can we talk about democratic, equal and fair elections when one party has taken over the media? National media is party media today. If anyone thinks it's different, he's just a hypocrite. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. I would like to refer here to the statements of Senator Komorowski, who said that we should adopt a resolution on hate speech, which often appears in public space. I am the one asking Senator Komorowski: maybe we could create such a resolution together. 'Cause two or three days ago, I saw on the private media, and I watched TV Plus. As our senator, in the spirit of Christian love and reconciliation, turned to the senators on the other hand, that is, to us, those senators politically incorrect, saying: we are liars and cheaters. She repeated it twice in the media, this time private. Senator Czudowska called me a liar and a fraud. So, since Senator Komorowski has called for a fight against the language of hatred, perhaps he and I will sign a draft resolution that will stigmatize the statements of Senator Czudowska. And finally, to sum up, this election isn't gonna be fair. 2 billion PLN transferred to national media, granted for total propaganda, undermines the foundations of democratic equal opportunities of candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u181	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I want to make it clear that I support this resolution with all my power. I believe that such a resolution is needed because public media This is not just about news on TVP or about TVP at all, but also about regional centres, because unfortunately over the years they have been pacified by the ruling party PiS... Also regional centres of Polish Radio become, increasingly, a tube of the ruling party. Indeed, one of the most curial voices in today's discussion was the voice of one of the Senators of the PiS, who called on us, or the Senators of the opposition, to condemn the supposed hate speech against party media, or state media, formerly public. Well, I have to say that for a party representative whose president has been talking to political competitors for years, I quote: you are scumbags, you have treasonous faces, you are a party of frauds and thieves, you are paid traitors... Well, it's actually a high level of hypocrisy. I support this resolution very much, but I must tell you that I do not have much hope for it to change anything. The media of the ruling party, formerly known as the state and once public, consistently implement the propaganda line of attacks, sometimes Yes, it is. On the border or across the border of sighs towards opposition politicians and a ruthless line showing in a clear positive light the politicians of the ruling party. Some of you called this data unsupported. I want to rely on a study conducted by the Journalist Society a year ago during the campaign to the European Parliament, when it was... In fact, interestingly enough, the representative, in my opinion, the National Radio and Television Council, also referred to this campaign, saying that the only thing missing was a bit of a place for the Confederation. That is not true. The materials were analysed two weeks before the vote a year ago, the material from the news, the main TVP information program. For 150 materials related to the elections, 69 were related to the PiS. 68 was positive, only 1 neutral. The second power, the main force of the opposition, the European Coalition, treated 33 subjects, i.e. less than half, and surprise, surprise, all of them had a negative tone. Among the main materials, i.e. those 2 and 3 which are at the beginning, 48 concerned elections. The PiS had 21, only positive, the European Coalition had 9 only negative. These figures have not changed in the autumn campaign before the parliamentary elections, they have not changed in the campaign before the missed elections on 10 May, and now, in my opinion, they will not change either. I believe that calling on Mr. Jack Kurski to stop practicing the brutal propaganda of the PiS ruling party will have the same effect as appealing to the wolf to become a vegetarian. Nevertheless, of course, I believe that the Senate has a duty where it can do so to correct the situation with regard to these elections. I am proud of what we voted on the day before yesterday in this House, of these amendments that repair undemocratic in my opinion at many moments electoral law. And, of course, disgrace falls on those in the Sejm who almost rejected these amendments as a whole. And now we're gonna be too. In order for it to be in the annals of history to revil lying party action, formerly public television, even if our appeals are completely ignored. TVP has not been public television for at least 4 years. It's not even state television anymore, because there's a lot of games going on there. We heard at the cultural committee meeting that there were records on some politicians of the ruling party who fell into disfavor, for example. at the then Deputy Prime Minister of Gowin. It is a brutal party television, belonging to the headship of the PiS. I want to say yes. Since yesterday, some opposition politicians have outrun themselves in declarations that, regardless of who is elected in these elections, they regard this person as democratically elected President of the Republic of Poland. Well, I don't think so. The fact that 1/3 of the nation has access only to the party media of the PiS, formerly called public, distorts the outcome of the election. If a citizen does not have access to objective information, he cannot choose rationally and in accordance with his conscience. The promotional activities of public media in these elections will reflect on the outcome of these elections, and will consider these elections as non-democratic elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u183	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will make a declaration at the outset that I will vote against this draft resolution. And now I'm gonna try to explain briefly why I'm gonna do that. High Izbo, that is, in my deep conviction, the text of this resolution... And I also attended a meeting of the Joint Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Commission, where this project was discussed more widely. There are a lot of public statements in this project. It can be said that this resolution will be a propaganda-political text, not a substantive text. When it comes to the wording that is used there, first of all you can see a lot of generalization, a lot of simplifications. There was no in-depth analysis, no reference to any source material. And yet it was possible to ask the National Radio and Television Council to present the results of the monitoring, which the National Radio and Television Council is doing, for such a compilation of air time showing who had more time and who less. Well, there's a whole methodology for this kind of research. This would provide a basis for more substantive work on the text of the resolution. In addition, in my deep opinion, this draft resolution is a bit of an act of powerlessness of the Senate, which is here as a reviewer. I understand that a reviewer in some newspaper can describe how he feels about watching public television or declaring something he doesn't like. This is a perfectly natural situation resulting from the right to evaluate and the right to criticize. Nevertheless, the Senate, if it has already adopted a resolution, should refer to facts and, above all, should take care of the seriousness of the House and not turn into a biased reviewer of public media. Let me remind you that such attempts at evaluation lead to the wordings that I mentioned in my question, which concerned a request or a call for assurance. I quote: It's full of objectivity. Well, that's a dialectical phrase. Partial democracy, socialist democracy, liberal democracy... Well, either there is something or there isn't something. At least that's the logic I've been taught. If you demand full objectivity, you can presume that at the moment we are dealing with ordinary objectivity in these media. Well, under the wording that it's an objective medium, eventually I could even sign it. But is it full of objectivity? Well, if that's the case, we'd be starting a dialectical discussion about it by now. Why am I talking about the issue of some helplessness of the Senate? Well, as you know, the Senate is the second chamber of the Polish Parliament, has a legislative initiative and if there are any legal, structural, organizational solutions concerning the audiovisual area in Poland, there is nothing to prevent it from taking a legislative initiative in this area. And I agree with the wording... Maybe I'll surprise you here. In the third paragraph, in the first sentence of this paragraph, we read: "In free Poland, despite many attempts, we have failed to introduce a model that ensures full independence and protection of journalism standards to public media, especially in the information and publication segment. I think that we could all sign up for this in this House. Yeah, that's right. I was one of the critics of the Radio and Television Act of December 1992. I was an active publicist then, and later I was a member of the media council and information with the then President of the Republic of Poland. I have addressed this issue both in my texts and in my statements. I thought that this law, which adopted the French model, was a law that created a specific political office from the National Radio and Television Council for media management. Public media has been criticized for years... I do not really know any parliamentary term after 1989, in which there would be no criticism of the Polish Television and Polish Radio. Whether it was the structure of the Radio Committee, as at the turn of the 1980s or 1990s, whether it was a company of commercial law, i.e. Television Polska SA, or it was an intermediate model, i.e. National Organizational Unit of Polish Radio and Television. There was no term in which there would be no criticism of public media. Someone has always resented the public media that they are not pluralistic enough, that they do not create an open forum for public debate, that there is no full message that bad antenna time is shared, that there are inequalities, etc., etc. This is a permanent calendar of discussions that appear. What's the panacea for that? Well, first of all, making a good, good law on public media. For many years, for several dozen years, actually since this law on radio and television, it has been said that something like this has to be done in Poland. The BBC model is often referred to as a model to be referred to. However, the structure of the BBC, as we know, is different in general the organisational form of this corporation, and the form of commercial law companies is different, and such companies are public media. I believe that the Senate could, at least, be concerned about the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. It was suggested in this judgment that the National Media Council, which took away the competences for the real impact on the audiovisual order in Poland by excluding the National Radio and Television Council from the process of creating public media authorities... As we know, in the previous system the role of the National Radio and Television Council in this area was large, because it had a real impact on the selection of members of supervisory boards on the radio, in regional companies of Polish Radio and Television. So that we could take care of these things. Unfortunately, we do not have it, but we have a draft resolution that serves clearly the objectives, as I mentioned, propaganda and political. And I think the fourth paragraph, which says that in recent years a party propaganda tool has been made up of public media, is simply not true. It should be written: in the last few decades public media have been used for political purposes. That would be a real sentence, even if I'd signed off on it. Because that was the case, I can testify as a journalist, because for 20 years I was a journalist of Polish Television, and as a man who has been dealing with media for 40 years. High Izbo, that's why I'm making two amendments. First amendment... Well, I think this is where we're gonna test whether we're gonna break out of dialectics or not. The point is to delete the word "full" before the word "objectivism" in the first paragraph. And the second amendment is to delete the fourth paragraph from the draft resolution. I think that then this resolution would be better. That doesn't mean she'd be good, but at least she'd be better. Finally, this is my point: I will be very happy to be involved in the development of a model for the functioning of public media. I was quite skeptical about the appointment of the National Media Council as a duplicate body in a sense of the National Radio and Television Council. I also think of it as a note. to my own political camp, that despite the announcements in the previous term and 3 attempts, if I remember correctly, or perhaps even 4, a systemic model of public media funding has not been developed. And he'd clean up a lot when it comes to building an independent public service broadcaster. It hasn't been worked out. There were projects, but it ended when it ended, so none of them came into force. And now we have such situations that rescue measures are being taken to finance public media. I believe that public media should have permanent, permanent funding so that they can carry out their mission. At one time, one of the presidents said as many missions as a subscription. Back then, those words were criticized. I'm not gonna say which one, he's currently an envoy... Mr. Senator! I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. In any case, it is a very important element in our public media debates to ensure a systematic way of financing public media, because then we would avoid a lot of unnecessary discussions. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate. My venerable previous speaker was gracious to formulate a thesis to which one must refer, that the draft of this resolution is in some sense proof of the powerlessness of the Senate. I will tell you more: he is proof of the powerlessness of this majority of Poles, who for 5 years has been insulted by you not only in public media but also in everyday life practice. Yes, it is a manifestation of our powerlessness, but in these days not only public television, but also the whole political system at every step makes us realize that on your side there is strength, and on our side only most Poles. On our side is only the majority of Poles who have not voted in favour of Law and Justice in any elections since 2015. And then, when I realize that powerlessness, I recall the words of Vaclav Havl from his famous essay "The Power of the Powerless." Yes, today, you, Senator, and your colleagues are witnesses to this powerless force of ours, because, for now, you have not taken away our voice. But in your speech, besides this cult of force, which is the least fitting to you in this group, but to which we are already accustomed, there were also threads to which it is worth referring. You have rightly said, Senator, that the practice of the last 20 years is a practice of politicising public media. It cannot be disagreed with, and it cannot be said that political forces other than the Law and Justice that dominated public television during the various periods of its activities also used this television for political purposes. You can't disagree with this thesis, Mr. Senator. The problem, however, is, firstly, the scale of this commitment and, secondly, the substance of this commitment. What else is the favor of public television for the rulers, openness to showing government initiatives from the best possible perspective. That was the case, and it must be said honestly, for every government that had an impact on public television. Not everyone was as rude as it is in this case, but consent was the principle of greater openness to the government than to the opposition. Mr. Senator, it's very easy to prove this. The practice of the last 20 years has not been a practice of disgusting and dehumanizing political opponents. And once upon a time, there was a case of a unique, shameful attack on the dead. the memory of Lech Kaczyński and Jarosław Kaczyński on the threshold of a new chapter in their life stories, which was Law and Justice, when in 2001 public television published the Drama in three acts, all, including liberal journalists, nominated the authors of this shameful publication for the journalistic anti-Hien of the Year. Solidarity against this disgraceful and filthy attack was widespread. And today? Mr. Senator, I remember the day when the Catholic priest was extremely involved in the affairs of his Church only because he was insidiously recorded in the restaurant of the Sow and Friends, expressing political views other than those of the current authority. And it was thought that a sneaky, illegally recorded priest of the Church could be bullied on public television all day long. And a few months later, from the same recordings, tapes recorded in the same restaurant, we could learn what Mateusz Morawiecki, the current prime minister of good change, at a time when he was dealing with the transfer of the Polish banking sector into foreign hands and was a beneficiary of this, thought about clients of foreign banks, which were first given to foreign capital and then led by Mateusz Morawiecki... From these recordings we know how these foreign bankers treated us, Poles, like Mateusz Morawiecki, then serving foreign capital, laughed that Poles could be so stupid that they bought propaganda. This truth about the premiere, the same television that could have plagued the Catholic priest with illegal recordings, did not show its viewers. And here's the difference. The difference is not so much in the really uncool and every government over-opens itself to the arguments of the government camp, but in the bullying, dehumanizing, taking away the pure intentions of political opponents. And there is another dimension to which you, Senator, should also pay attention. For it is impossible not to say, and here we will certainly agree, that here I am abstracting from the information policy In terms of, say, the ideal public television of the nineties or two thousand years was leaning towards the left-liberal and no one can question this fact. I'm talking about affirming certain values now. However, at this time, as you too, Senator, the example proves, people with a different view had the opportunity not only to appear on public television as guests, but also to conduct their programs and address their offer to people who share their views. Like I said, I'm completely out of party disputes right now. Today on public television Poles identify with the liberal-left vision of the world not only in the dimension of information policy, but also in the dimension of cultural, historical policy... These voters, and there are very, very many of them, will not find an offer addressed to each other. And this is also the problem of the ideological inflection of this television, which I will repeat: I am abstracting from the party dispute in Poland, it has become a tool for only one ideological option, and for the other option it leaves no window. Because believe me, no one in their right mind treats Cucumber as a representative of left-wing thinking in public media. Understanding the need for discussion on the fact that politicians should have the slightest impact on public television, we cannot ignore that public television in Poland after 2015 has become a tool of political propaganda and ideological propaganda, which serves not so much to promote a specific idea but, above all, to destroy and disgust the ideas of politicians opposed to it. And that's what really hurts. And this is it, Mr. Senator, that... very many people, whether during the election campaign or after her, with whom I met, my constituents, told me And believe me, this argument has repeated over and over again that it feels humiliated by the style of public television propaganda. And this was also said by people who in the worldview dimension are closer to the camp of present power than to the camp of present opposition. And this reflection, or certainly the language used by public television, and this style of debate that promotes public television, are healthy for our political life... I invite everyone to this debate, including those who have legitimate objections to what the media market looked like before 2015. But I'm sure this model of information, ideal policy, that kind of thing. I'm saying it in giant quotes. The journalistic ethics, which is presented today on public television, is the destruction of Polish democracy, that is, the destruction of political dialogue in our country. And that is why I hope that this resolution, which is a manifestation of powerless forces, will also be a swallow of the fact that in Poland there will be a real good change also in the dimension of public media. But we do not only want changes in this matter in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u187	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech will probably be less flaming, but it will contain more facts. For a while, I mean. I am sure that in my previous term of office, when I was also a senator, the Senate actually adopted resolutions practically exclusively historical. There was an important date, a round anniversary of that date, and the Senate described an event related to that date, and then to those who participated in this event, they worshiped, worshiped, praised attitudes. Well, something's broken. We've been dealing with resolutions for some time in this term... I don't know how to define them. Are they a symptom of despair... I don't think so, because in the end, the majority of the Senate that initiates these resolutions maybe in the Senate practically everything. Resolutions are not reviewed by other authorities, by the Sejm, not published, not subject to the President's signature. So at the Senate, the resolution process begins and ends. In this House, a Senate majority can do anything. So how does he use his, well, certainly great talents? What's this resolution for? Let's take a look at what it says. It actually contains three layers. Layer one is a sentence, a statement from the ground true, which does not bring anything. Everyone will agree with them. I'll give you two examples. The election period is always the most important state test. Of course, I can sign off on that. Or: However, there are principles and universal values resulting from the constitution and standards generally accepted, the relevant democratic states and the democratic position of free media. Of course, it's true. But between these obvious things, they're false. This is the best method, by the way, to smuggle falsehood into consciousness. For the same falsehood, even repeated 100 times, according to the classic, is not as strong as the false skillfully stuck into the text, which in its remaining part is true. Let's show some examples. Is it really so that the first fake, I quote, "In recent years, the public media has been made a party propaganda tool." Yes. Hit the table and the scissors will talk. Is this really the case? The second fake that the culture, with the most outstanding figures and works, was pushed into the margin. Yes. It can be cursed, of course. Yes, of course, it's best to repeat it in your sleep. But it doesn't work. Here, there is a third layer in this resolution, namely 2 appeals. While the first appeal is a matter of falsehood, the second appeal is completely incomprehensible. I've already talked about it in my questions. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expects and calls on the institutions of the state to respect all voters... Let's leave the rest. Of course. Who are we calling? We don't really know. What's really going on? Well, the group that initiated it, who's opting for it and even trying to stop it in the course of the speech, has some ideas. These are judgmental views, of course. And he's trying to make those views real at all costs. Like I said, it's a pretty effective method, but for the time being. Until you expose those ideas. And that's the phobia, the political views, the fears, the fears in this resolution. This isn't the first resolution. Today we're gonna take care of one more, and we've already taken care of a few. And they'll probably be next. It's a pity about the Senate. It's a waste of time. It doesn't make any sense. It's a waste of time for the Senate, for the committee, for the citizens watching us. That's not why we're here. We're here to make a law that responds to certain facts, e.g. Coronavirus. E.g. do not wait 30 days for the adoption of the electoral code, i.e. It's not a code, it's a special election bill. Yeah, but another layer. Because then... actually, it's a result. Well, the audience can get used to such resolutions. But if he gets used to them, then in the end, without taking them seriously, he's just gonna stop looking out for the rest of them. He'll stop paying attention to the text the Senate will produce here. We already had, in one of the speeches, some regrets that some people do not come to committee meetings, people who should come. Maybe it's because they say there's no point in making these texts? The result will be that the status of the Senate resolution will simply go down. That's the truth. You're converting the Senate into small-scale resolutions. I'm not saying there's another bottom. Since Mr.Rafal Trzaskowski's candidate on May 17 claims that a new public television will be created in place of the current television, without TVP Info, without news, without political publicity, without everything that is poisoning our public life today, and 21 May No, some strange coincidence of dates, 4 days after, not before, only after We have a draft resolution, it proves, of course, in quotes, because it doesn't really do anything like that, these statements. I'm afraid of what's going to happen next, because right now, during this period, political activity of various statements of Mr. Trzaskowski's pretty big. The Senate may not make it with the votes supporting the resolutions. And the subject matter is very diverse. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that this resolution was in the Senate's session at all, it is a pity that such a weak text was found in the Senate's deliberations, it is a pity that you are not trying to achieve political goals in any other way, rather than such a publicist one. If you keep doing this, like I said, you're not the only ones who lose. He will lose the resolution institution itself if he does not take it by majority and on matters that no longer arouse protests and political passions. And he's gonna lose the Senate first of all, because then nobody's gonna read the papers, and he's just gonna wave his hand: and, again, there's something about politics. There's still time to reflect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to make a proposal against rejection and ask that we convene today a joint committee meeting on the proposals that have been received. I think there's been some adjustments. Speaking of Senator Jackowski's statement about some weakness in the Senate, I'd like to say that the shape of the current media... We had promises at the very beginning... I do not know if you remember that in 2016, when there were changes in the media, we received information from the Minister at the time that the situation would change, that there would be a complex bill that would determine exactly how the television was financed, etc., etc. Until today we have not seen this bill and it is not the Senate's fault, it is the fault of the lack of political will. I am talking about this because I think we have nothing to say about the media in this term of office, because the Senate has finally taken a serious interest in the media, has given this issue of public discussion, has led to the disclosure of various kinds of documents and their placement in public space. At the last meeting, devoted to the Trinity... I've brought you another document and I'm going to quote it to those senators who don't know how horrible things happen in the media, what situations are happening. This may be a normal situation for some, but for all those who would like the media to be independent of any pressure, things like those that I am about to present to you are simply unacceptable. In any country in Europe, if such texts were to surface, the director of such an institution would be released immediately. I'll remind you that it's not like Director Kowalczewski has been canceled. No, he resigned, but he's still working in Trinity. That's the first thing I wanted to say. He wasn't canceled... I mean, he was canceled, but after his resignation, at his request. Director Kamińska is still working. Look again, this is the information that was presented at the cultural committee meeting, but maybe not everyone knows it. This is, for example. this type of correspondence These are, of course, fragments that come from the phones of those who received orders. Hi, Eve, let the editor Marcin Łukawski take a second approach to the press review and include an interview with JK. He says interesting, powerful things. Very urgent. Answer: Today's show will be led by Marcin Hurry. I'll tell him naturally. I don't know what's so natural about it that it's recommended to include a case in the press review. Sure, hurry up. The interview is in the Polish Newspaper. So that these are instructions for placing in the press review and paying attention to the interview with President Kaczyński. There are cases that can only be entertained, e.g. that you cannot hit meat producers and that you don't like the management of meat and antibiotics. And we have this kind of... Well, it's raining there that this kind of bump is unfortunate that it needs to be changed and regulated. Next thing you know, you're gonna have to invite a child's attorney tomorrow. It's an order to invite a child's attorney. I wonder if the ombudsman would be imposed in the Trinity as well. O Babice It's a town with no debts. It's supposed to be nice not to say they're in debt. I mean, over there in Babice. I'm sure there can't be a guy from the debt register. But information about the subject, about the guests, was sent yesterday and the reporter explains that the guy in the debt register says that the seniors' situation has improved since 500+. Answer: "This does not change the fact that they do not agree to this view of Grandma's Day. So you can't talk about the town in terms of debt. What are the political reasons for this, we will no longer explain today. The next example is that Cuba wants publicists. What kind of people are you Answer: "Warch and someone." Łukasz Warzecha presents the liberal view, as the second guest we will take someone with social views from the Polish Gazeta. Tomasz Sakiewicz, Dorota Kania or Katarzyna Heyke. This is the choice of publicists in public radio information or public radio programmes, and this is how it is defined. Guests are set, but it's not the hosts, it's not the journalists who set the guests. There are also commands, what we do or what we do not do. Director: We do not do climate manifestation, the President's decision. We're doing Tchaika for this. I'm sorry, what about Tchaikha? It's a malfunction. Well, that's the answer for those people who have said many times here, how they present themselves in a negative context, e.g. President of Warsaw, I don't think he was a candidate at the time, because this is the January date. But it's raining: we don't do climate demonstrations. This is proof of political decisions made by public media authorities. This was, of course, presented at the meeting of the Trinity Committee. There was no response to this from the National Radio and Television Council, and the National Media Council wrote back to us that the Rules of Procedure would not allow her to address our motion to dismiss the directors. There's even an example of this type: you have to do the Piast Run, because there's a team from One. So the radio's rolling because there's a team from One, and you know who the team from One is. Or an e-mail like that. That's for Senator Swede. It was sent to all journalists, actually they all got it: "We introduce the principle of not publishing one-sided opinions of political groups. You'd think it'd be great. If it happens that e.g. In the Sejm, the opposition criticizes the government's actions, and we are waiting for the publication of the material until the next page is reached. So, if there's criticism of the government, we wait and play to make sure there's an answer, because there can't be criticism of the government without an answer. And does it work the other way, too, that if there is, for example. Trzaskowski's critic, must that be Trzaskowski's answer? No, there's no such thing, they're just talking about government people. Let's remember that the radio programming office accounts for the time of the political party's antennae. The statements of the President, the Prime Minister, representatives of the President's chambers and the Prime Minister's chambers, ministers, vice-ministers, government spokespersons and ministers are not counted as votes of the governing party. Now we know how these antenna times are counted. Says of all the politicians we have the pleasure of ♪ Or not ♪ Listening on the radio, politicians coming from a government camp, are not included in this time of air. These materials will be available for inspection, we'll make them public. We got these materials from Three. I think it should be people who know what it is and what it looks like, shocking and that it should get the National Radio and Television Council to act immediately on this issue. Unfortunately, as we have heard today, the council cannot and will do nothing. At least that's how I understood Mrs. Bochwic's speech today. I would like to conclude by saying, Ladies and gentlemen, that it is not only that some people carry out certain tasks, are placed in the media section, the President of Kurski, the President of Kaminska or other persons carrying out such tasks... Law and Justice are responsible for this. You're in charge, you're sending these people to the media. I would remind you that we are dealing with a situation in which even President Duda started disturbing President Kurski. He started disturbing enough that there was an solstice, a famous meeting and Mr. President Kurski was even removed from the media board for a moment. Mrs. Paczusk was on this board. As we know, after a few weeks Mr. President Kurski returned, Mrs. Paczuska was removed from the board and Mr. Kurski is now managing TV again. Whether it's from the second seat or the first seat, it doesn't matter, anyway, it's still in charge. It is sad that this is how the President of the Republic of Poland was treated in this situation. You don't see it, you don't pay attention to it, you say there's nothing going on in the media, that there's no stubbornness at all, there's no propaganda, there's no manual control, and I'm proving it to you, Mr. Senator, with what's written here. This is the manual control of the media from the outside, this is the manual control. I think there's gonna be a time when there's gonna be a committee of inquiry on this, because these things are unacceptable. These may not be things that may be subject to criminal sanctions, but these are outrageous, morally unacceptable things. Something like this just can't happen in public media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski. The senator will be communicating with us remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u192	Yes. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Inspired by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's speech I'm sorry, something's going on here. I'll say I accept this invitation. I think it might even be an interesting experience, is the drafting of a resolution on the language of hatred in the media or, I would say, wider in public space. But before I move on to the question of the language of hatred, one observation about Senator Czerwinski's speech. Of course, I'm signing up for what Senator Czerwiński said, and he was talking about the purpose of the resolutions. There's practically no Senate meeting where...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u193	I can't hear you, Mr. Senator. Can we try to reconnect the senator? It's a weak Internet... So he's... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Senator, please... Yeah, I know, but... Then why don't we try and get Senator Klich on the phone, and then we'll get back to Senator Komorowski. Can Senator Klich begin his speech? Yeah, I'm on standby. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u194	To be honest, I would like to hear a further part of Senator Komorowski's statement, because he raised this thread from Senator Czerwiński's statement, to which I would like to refer. So I don't know, Mrs. Marshal, how do you decide... Well, at this point, we have no connection to Senator Komorowski, so start your speech. Well, because Senator Czerwiński is not the first time he expresses his longing for old times, for such a past in fact, in which the Senate sat in Wigwam and was the advice of the elders, I would like to say to the senator that I hope that this situation will never come back. It is our duty as legislators to make good law. It is also our duty to respond to what is happening in Poland, and that is why such resolutions, as you have noticed, have been, and will also be in the future. We will respond to everything that is happening in Poland, especially those things that are ruining our country. This particular resolution is to stop the spoils of this country and to stop the processes, the infamous processes that have been taking place in our country since 2015. Therefore, I joined the group of those whom you desired to call the group that followed this text, presenting my views. Yes. We're people who have opinions. That's one thing. We are people who have democratic views. That's two. Thirdly, we believe that there are many pillars of democracy that must not be corrupted because democracy is the future of our country. One of these pillars is the independence of the media, whether they are public or commercial. These media have the right to be independent because it is the right of citizens to be well and reliably informed. Unfortunately, citizens via TVP and radio, so-called. public, not properly informed, disinformed. I will remind you of the beginning of the 1990s, when after leaving the press underground, with the press that we were running with my friends, I was asked to take over the head office of the information and publishing department at the Krakow public television centre... When I recall those times when we were working on the objective shape of Polish media, when we were working on a new law on radio and television, I see that what is happening today is an exact denial of that time. At the time we were talking about objectivity, now TVP and Polish Radio are not objective. At the time we were looking for guarantees for reliable information, we are currently dealing with misinformation. At the time, we were talking about the independence of journalists, and at the moment we are dealing with a system that spoils journalistic work. At the time we wanted to introduce the BBC model into Poland, at the moment this model in Polish so-called. The public media will not be witnessed. Therefore, this resolution makes sense and this resolution was introduced to initiate the process of renewal of Polish media, so that what PiS took from citizens, to restore to Poles what belongs to them. Because the sacred right of every Pole is to have a share in the property of what is public, to be a co-owner of what is public. And this trial has begun. You will not stop this process, this process will continue. This resolution begins the process of restoring public media to Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u195	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask, is Senator Komorowski on the line with us yet? He'll be here any minute. Now I would very much like you to address Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u196	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to a few speeches, among others. Senator Czerwinski's statement. For the first time in the history of the last 30 years, we have such a clear difference in who is the majority in the Senate and who is the majority in the Seym. I have no doubt that Parliament is from reviewing, guarding and pointing out, if any, abuses of executive authority. That's how it was built. And even more so, the Senate, which does not indicate this majority, is the reviewer. From what Senator Czerwiński said, also at committee meetings, it would appear that in fact the legislative authority should not interfere with what the governing authorities are doing. I think this is a mistake. Then when the majority in the Senate had the Civic Platform, in the eighth term, when we had the government of the Civic Platform, many times in this room. What some who were then in the Senate, including the Law and Justice, remember I was able to critically comment on certain events or actions of the Civic Platform government. And I think that's kind of our primary function. Senator, I don't know why, he thinks this kind of resolution This is depreciating the role of the Senate. Well, it's exactly the opposite. For the first time in the history of the Senate, we are dealing with matters that are important to citizens. This is all the more important because if we take absolute numbers into account, it turns out that the group that Senator Czerwiński represents received less votes than the other groups. And that's what's reflected in the Senate. It was a difference of about 1 million votes. It's just the D-Hondt method that makes you still rule the Sejm. So you don't represent the majority. If the senator says that dealing with such important things referred to in these resolutions is depreciating the role of the Senate I'm not the author of it, I'm not signed to it. If you believe that this is not what Poles are living at the moment, and you believe that this is depreciating the Senate, I will remind you, among other things. Mr. Senator and Senator Żaryn were engaged in the previous term of office. Well, you've commemorated the merits of Professor Kazimierz Pelczar. I'm sure he's a wonderful man, and he's certainly worthy, just tell me if it's more important to how power works. You took care of the 50th anniversary, especially round, of the Archbishop's death. I'm not giving names anymore. It was very important. Excuse me, two archbishops, because... Very important... Excuse me, two archbishops, because one of them was born 150 years ago. You were in charge of the uprising. Of course, it's a wonderful relationship between the Gymnastic Society and the Falcon. This, of course, is important in our history. But that's why you were chosen to do that, and not even a word to blink, never to deal with the fact that the laws go through in one day, at night? Do any of you... Of course, former Senator Bobko and Senator Stanisławczyk... Stanisławek. Excuse me, yes, Stanisławek. Sometimes Silence. Yeah, sometimes you're Senator Quiet. ...you got rid of them because they were expressing some doubts. Mr. Senator, I assure you, these resolutions... I'm not a big fan of multiplying resolutions, but if any resolutions make sense... Compared to what you did in your previous term of office, this resolution makes much more sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u197	Thank you very much... If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, ad vocem, because it's been here several times... Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, of course, I just wanted to thank Senator Pociej for speaking. And at this point, as part of ad vocem, I am giving the floor to Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First note I've said it a few times. Please, gentlemen, refer to the topic of discussion, not to names. I didn't mention any of you. I don't know, I think you guys have a complex, something's going on with you guys. Don't go ad personam, just ad rem. As far as substantive issues are concerned, Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Constitution says: The Sejm exercises control over the activities of the Council of Ministers within the scope of certain provisions of the Constitution and laws. So the Senate doesn't. It's that the Senate is chopping that position out, e.g. by the institution of statements, that is another matter. He doesn't do it constitutionally. And one last thing. History will judge which resolutions, whether historical, or so-called. Runners, they have more power, I'd say, public influence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to reconnect with Senator Mark Komorowski. Hello, am I heard? You're being heard, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u200	Thank you. Something turned me off, I don't know if it's someone or me, but somehow the connection's broken. I managed to reconnect. The senator's already on the line. I'm on the line, okay? I'll continue. I accept this invitation from Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, I think this might be an interesting experience, although I do not know if we can handle it. I'd like to say a few words about the language of hatred, but before I go about it, I'm going to refer to what Senator Czerwiński said. I'm signing off on this. He asked for a purpose. Well, the target seems clear to me, he's a little far-reaching. When we observe this, we see that every Senate sitting we have some kind of special resolution. At this meeting we have two such resolutions. If we have a Senate meeting before the presidential elections, we may have three similar special resolutions, so-called. occasional. I think the target is clear, he's a little further. This goal is defined, I think, by one of my fellow mentors on the other hand, who said: "If I am correctly diagnosing, there is no more important thing than to remove the PiS from power." By moving to the language of hatred, I would say that I agree with the voices of all those who say that Parliament is the place for a political dispute, for a violent political dispute. 'Cause where to argue if not in Parliament? But Parliament is certainly not a place for hate. And today, in this debate, Senator Bosacki said, among others, in his speech.: Disgrace for those who rejected the Senate's amendments in the Seym. Well, that word "honest" is nothing but a language of hatred. We should also have a little self-control, because citizens are watching us and judging us in some way. As for the language of hatred, I will only quote four statements from the former Prime Minister, the former President, the former Marshal of the Sejm and the former President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Mrs. Ewa Kopacz: You should not practice politics on the street. But it all depends on who runs the country. Such pressure, in the case of the Black Protest, has shown that it makes sense. You have to show strength. Mr.Jerzy Stępień: At the moment, there is no more law, only the naked force counts. Physical. Whoever has more men behind them, who will lead them out into the street, will be the winner. Bronisław Komorowski: This is such a company that it will only go back if it gets the cep of truth in the head. Sometimes you have to have courage and piss with people like that. Radosław Sikorski: One more battle, we will kill the pack. Then you can comment that it was addressed not to those, but to those, but in general it was said. I think that this language of hatred, which is in the media, which is in public space, must be eradicated, must be combated. But I have not heard, I do not know such statements of the current Prime Minister or the current President, in which they would operate such a language of hatred. Well, on the contrary. That's why I think I'm going to accept this proposal from Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Let's see if we can handle a resolution on this together. Like I said, this could be an interesting experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u201	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the last words of Senator Komorowski. Mr. Senator was kind to quote one of Bronisław Komorowski's statements, which was to document the language of hatred. The point is that there are people who need to be treated with cep. Well, I'd think it wasn't very pretty, but luckily the president said the truth. This is a metaphor of some kind, so it would be absolutely unjustified to treat it as a language of hatred. That's a bad example, Mr. Senator. And as Charles de Talleyrand, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Napoleon once said, in politics only the truth is worse than slander. I'll be right back to the truth, but first I have to say that I don't understand why Senator Czerwinski doesn't like his name being mentioned. Well, I really don't get it. There's a saying: bad or good, just by name. Senator Czerwiński is currently one of the most famous senators in Poland. This is obviously the result of the Senator's work, your speeches, etc. But tell me what the discussion is. I mean, seriously, what's the discussion? Well, the discussion is that its participant refers to the words of other debaters. It's hard not to mention a name when a person refers to a particular debater. Well, at the committee meeting, I tried to put it differently, which is I said that I would like to refer to the senator's words, who sits on the right side of the bureau, in the last row, in the corner. Is that how we're supposed to talk? It doesn't make any sense. I refer to the senator with respect, even though I disagree with a number of your views. Senator Pociej has already mentioned this, so I will no longer develop it too much and I will only say that such a resolution is an opportunity for discussion. You could say that both sides 'Cause there's two sides to the argument. They make their arguments. People listen to this. Well, there's a group of people who listen to our debates. There are reports of these debates. This somehow remains, and in time there are facts that we can compare with our arguments. And these are important debates. Senator Pociej already told us why another resolution about this or another person deserved historically is to be widely read, sold... I rather think that each one of them is published, of course, but forgotten. We sometimes think that if we mention a name in the resolution, less known of course, we'll get it out... Very well, we should do this, but let's not think it's gonna go under the hoard, and everyone's gonna know who it is or who it is, and I'm not gonna name names. In this case, we have an opportunity for a very serious discussion. By the way, I would like to express my great appreciation for the Committee on Culture, above all for the chair of the Committee on Culture. I have been watching this from the very beginning and I must say that this is a committee in which authentic debates are held with experts and experts. It's not like you're literally throwing some slogans or accusations, etc. I mean, if it's like... television is, as you know, everyone knows about TV, and therefore everyone is willing to say something. However, it was from the Committee on Culture that very specific information came from data, studies, analyses made by professionals. It just points to the right job. And now about what these objective media are supposed to be. I think we all agree here that they should be objective. It's just that the discussion is whether the previous ones were objective, whether they're very objective, etc. Well, let's stick to what's going on. What is objectivity? I'll give you an example. Rafał Trzaskowski took off as, so to speak, candidate for presidential candidate. How should it look on public television, how should this fact be presented there? There should be information that Rafał Trzaskowski, President of Warsaw, has run for president, will be a candidate of the Civic Coalition. And that's information. Of course, a moment later he might show up, I don't know, Mr. Michał Karnowski or Mr. Jacek Karnowski and say that the man-warrior has run for president. It's his right. But in a moment, someone on the other side should show up and say, for example, that this malfunction was not his fault, anything. The viewer listens, here he has information, here he has 2 views, and it's up to him to get his own position. What did we have on TVP Info? In TVP Info, a belt sounded as follows: ♪ Man-of-the-mill fights for the palace. ♪ So the journalist who's supposed to inform has already ruled, has already stood on a particular side and stated. Another belt: Well, it may be, only I am waiting when they show the belt: Unfulfilled promises of Andrzej Duda. I assure you, I will not live to see this. And so far, I've read all of Mrs. Hole's interview... I was quoting him at the committee meeting, so I'm not gonna stand up to your editor here. It was an interview on your knees, with hints for the president. If he forgot to tell you about his success, your editor reminded him. And there was no question of unfulfilled promises, and there are several, and serious ones. And it won't, certainly not. These are very simple examples that show that it can't work like this, simply. Okay, now that's the last and final argument. If I asked Senator Gogach, Senator Elephant, Senator Czerwiński, whether public television should be objective television, you would say yes. And it's objective. And you're even gonna say she's objective. It's true, isn't it? Good. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invoke authority in this area indisputable, namely, Mr Jack Kurski. Mr Jacek Kurski This is the man who's gonna think he's gonna say it. He's got such an honest look when you look at him... And he says, for example. The dark people will buy it, won't they? And alone... Of course, that's what he thought. That's what he said! And for that we should value him. And what did he say when he was still president and when he was accused of... Because he was out there, there was a conference, some questions, and he was accused of being biased by public television. Well, he said, "Please, the rest of the media support the opposition, the private ones, of course, this one must support those who rule!" There must be some balance. So, ladies and gentlemen, Jacek Kurski himself. President! He said that this television could not be objective, that it must be a television supporting the government. That's it, period. This is all evil. And that's why don't tell me she's objective, since the president himself said she can't be objective and she has to support the government. I think that these words are the best proof that we need a debate on this subject and a resolution that will express the view I hope more than just a senate majority. That democracy must be lame in the context of such public media. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. And here you are, Senator Christopher Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening to this debate and I will say that there have been quite a few harsh words here. I think some of them were unnecessarily cited here. But I think that also shows how much we share the question of looking at the functioning of public media. I would like to present to you a draft resolution of the Senate on the role of the Senate in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. I hope that the authors of the draft resolution that we are currently debating will forgive me for taking most of this project from their text. That is the following. Citizens of the Republic of Poland, memorials of bitter experiences from the times when fundamental freedoms and human rights were violated in our Homeland, wishing to guarantee civil rights, and the actions of public institutions to ensure honesty, call on the Senate of the Republic of Poland and its constitutional bodies to ensure full objectivity, equality and integrity in presenting the conduct of the election campaign in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Citizens, through their tribute laws and from the state budget, give the Senate a privileged position in shaping public opinion. At the same time, this position, through the appointment of the Senate authorities, favours the politicisation of the Upper House of Parliament. However, there are principles and universal values resulting from the constitution and standards generally adopted, the relevant democratic states and the democratic position of the Senate. And these principles must be followed. In recent months, the Senate has been made a party propaganda tool. The principles of modern parliamentarianism are not respected. There's a lack of diversity... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, is this... This is part of my speech. But this is about public media? It's deep... On the agenda? I remind you that the performances... I'm just finishing up. Literally two sentences... The speeches, Mr Senator, must relate to the item on the agenda. This has something to do with it, because since we can evaluate public media, in the same categories we can also evaluate the functioning of the Senate. It lacks a variety of views and evaluations of current events. Information transmissions are of a valuable nature and are conducive to only one option. Citizens of the Republic of Poland expect and call on the Senate to respect all voters regardless of their views and respect citizens' rights, and especially care about the truthfulness of public communications. The election period is always the most important state test. The electoral campaign must be objective and respectful of constitutional and statutory records. I hope I can get 10 senators to sign this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u205	Thank you, Senator. Once again, I remind the senators that, according to the Senate's Rules of Procedure, speeches in the discussion must be related to the bill or draft resolution or the case referred to. Well, I don't think the senator's speech had anything to do with that point. You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Senator, you've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u206	Okay, three minutes is enough for me. Mr. Senator, this is a very interesting initiative, but let me tell you that it surprised me not because of the content, but because of the formal side. Well, you're proposing that the Senate appeal to the Senate. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I see. Let me put it another way: Senator Elephant as a citizen and senator appeals to the Senate. Mr. Senator, it looks like you're appealing to yourself. You don't think... Well, I'm not gonna say it's weird, but it's pretty original. And that's why I'm surprised. Self-criticism. Yeah, self-criticism. Of course, once you could criticize yourself, even very strongly, and it mostly ended well, in this way some people saved themselves. But I've never heard of appeals to myself. I wouldn't say it would strengthen the Senate. Well, why embarrass yourself, Senator? But with the part of the argument you put in there, I could agree with you. Well, I misplaced your name, but I had to do it. I did it out of respect, not to attack you somehow.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u207	Thank you very much. Would Senator Elephant like to... Ad vocem. Ad vocem? That's what I'm asking you, Marshal. But very briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u208	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshall, I wasn't going to insult or embarrass anyone. I used 3/4 of the text of the draft resolution that we are debating to show that also individual senators But this also applies to the Senate as a whole and its constitutional organs, among others. The Bureau should ensure that public communication resulting from the privileged position of the Senate is at an appropriate level. I purposely used the wording that the authors used in the text of the project to show the universality of these terms and that the repair of certain shortcomings in the functioning of different bodies should start with each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u209	Thank you, Senator. And since you called the Senate Bureau, now is the time. I'll say something ad vocem. I'll take that short, in one sentence. I am very surprised that you, as a representative of a party that does not respect any standards of democracy at all in the Seym. In the Seym, the opposition has absolutely nothing to say about standards in the Senate. That was my ad vocem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, we're almost done here. But I'm still entitled to five minutes. You're entitled to five minutes. But this is the last vote in this discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing... And you want the senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, are you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u210	Mrs. Marshal, however, I would like to speak, first of all because it's... Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. ...a lot of demagogical statements in this discussion. Well, it's very difficult, especially for people who didn't protest when the leader of their political formation called his fellow citizens a worse sort... And it's hard in our civilization, at least the one from which I come, to find something more shameful in the eyes of politics than to call my own citizens a worse sort of... If the wording of the worst sort and the treasonous murders from the tribune of the brightest Sejm of the brightest Republic addressed to the citizens of this brightest Republic are not the language of hatred sanctioned as the norm of your politics, then what is it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u211	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Szwed and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Communications. I submit a request for the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 4:00... And after the break... Following the interruption, item 14 of the agenda will be considered. [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...there will be a committee meeting... I have a question: will there be a vote on this resolution after this break or not? No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The resolution goes to committee now, Senator. And is there going to be a committee meeting... No, not now. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 4:00. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 22 to 16 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u212	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that points 12 and 13 concerning amendments to the Senate's Rules of Procedure have already been considered. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Iwona Michalek. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information. The Minister has made a request to speak to us from this place. Please, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Information on Poland's performance of its obligations under the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. The Convention was signed by Poland on 18 December 2012 and ratified in April 2015. The tasks of coordinating the implementation of the Convention were entrusted to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on 30 April 2019, but the key tasks of preventing and combating violence are primarily carried out by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education together with units, subordinate institutions, including the Police Headquarters, the Office for Foreigners, the Central Administration of the Prison Service, the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. The anti-violence tasks in the family are carried out by government administrations and local government units together with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Justice at the head. The first report on Poland's implementation of the Convention was submitted to the Council of Europe on 26 March 2020. The deadline was at the end of March. The report was previously adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2020. The report is currently being examined by the expert group on combating violence against women and domestic violence. According to the group's work calendar, the draft report on Poland's report should be adopted in April 2021. The information provided in the report relates to the activities carried out in 2017 and partly in 2019, but given that the anti-violence arrangements were adopted before 2017, the report also provides information on these solutions. The first report was intended to present in a full, transparent and logical manner the solutions in force in Poland in the fight against violence and violence in the family. The scope of the information provided corresponds to the scope of the Convention in question. The report therefore provides information on the fight against violence offences, i.e. criminal rules and procedures, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention in this respect. Support for victims of crime has been discussed, the issue of preventing and combating violence in the family, namely research, institutions, support for victims of violence in the family, as well as actions against perpetrators of violence, i.e. behaviour and types of assistance, has been widely addressed. An important part of the report is statistical data on persons affected by family violence who have benefited from the assistance of public institutions; institutions providing assistance; criminal proceedings. The Convention has a very wide thematic scope, which includes inter alia.: protecting women from all forms of violence; preventing, prosecuting and eliminating violence against women and domestic violence; eliminating all forms of discrimination against women, and promoting equality between women and men, including through strengthening the position of women; developing broad strategies to protect and support all victims of violence against women and domestic violence; providing support and assistance to law enforcement organisations and bodies in order to adopt an integrated approach to the elimination of violence. Issues related to the prevention of domestic violence in the Polish legal order are governed by the Law of 29 July 2005 on the prevention of domestic violence and by the provisions of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the years 2014 and 2020. These acts comply with the provisions of the Convention, as they aim to protect and support all persons experiencing various forms of family violence, regardless of sex, age, health or place of origin. The current system of anti-violence in the family in Poland gives equal rights to all those who experience violence in the family without identifying specific social groups. These regulations ensure equal treatment and respect for their rights and freedoms for those who experience violence in the family. Poland takes actions and initiatives to adapt the Polish system against domestic violence to the provisions of the Convention. Among the most important, it is worth pointing to a few. And so: development of support infrastructure for people who experience violence in the family. Within the framework of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the 2014-2020 period, specialised support centres for victims of violence in the family are set up and maintained from the state budget. These facilities provide a wide range of specialist assistance to people who experience violence in the family, including in the form of shelter and specialist guidance, e.g. Legal, psychological or medical. The operation of these facilities is a task entrusted to the counties in the field of government administration and their maintenance is financed by the State budget. Currently there are 36 such facilities in the country. Development of influences... Since 2017, a new form of interaction has been implemented with the perpetrators, i.e. psycho-therapeutic programmes for perpetrators of violence in the family, which complement previously conducted programmes of remedial and educational influences. In 2017, a nationwide telephone for victims of violence in the family was launched. A hotline for those seeking support in connection with violence is available 24 hours a day and is available 7 days a week. During the selected hours there are also consultations in English and Russian languages, and on selected days there is also a telephone legal clinic. The 800 120 002 hotline is run by the National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family, under the authority of the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, which is under the Ministry of Health. The hotline is financed from the state budget, it is the amount of PLN 340 000 per year. Each of the authorities at central level responsible for monitoring the National Family Violence Prevention Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 shall analyse the qualitative and quantitative implementation of the programme once a year on the basis of the data provided by the subordinate units. As required by the Convention, the scope of data collection has been extended. Data shall be collected taking into account gender, age, geographical location or taking into account material circumstances such as disability. At the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, work was undertaken to amend the Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws, including the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, in order to introduce comprehensive solutions for the rapid isolation of the violent person from the perpetrator of violence in situations where he poses a threat to the life or health of the household. Following the entry into force of the anti-violence law signed by the President on 19 May 2020, Poland joined countries where victims of violence in the family can count on quick and effective assistance. The perpetrator of physical violence threatening the life or health of the household will leave the apartment without delay, which also corresponds to the provisions of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister's questions? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski reporting, then Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Minister, Thank you very much. Of course, that's a little bit of information in the historical system. It's impossible not to take the opportunity that the Minister is with us. Because we all feel that the last period, connected with the mandatory extension, and I would say, a permanent stay of the household at home, a period which, as statistics show, We've been getting to know them. The countries in which the so-called countries in the past have taken place. lockdowns... This is linked to a significant increase in the rate of violence in the family. Are you conducting any such analyses? Do you have that in mind? Do you collect this information from the police? This is the first question in the context of current events. Second question. Is the Ministry analyzing the need to extend the definition of violence? It is, of course, about the still unaccounted for element of economic violence. Third question. Are you possibly analyzing the need to change the collection of statistics, which are not as detailed in Poland as recommended by international experts dealing with this issue, which often causes incomparability, at least to a certain extent, of Polish data with other data? And the fourth question. Are you satisfied with the financial priorities for the implementation of the fund of assistance to victims of crime and post-penitentiary assistance, i.e. The Justice Fund, in the context of financing violence-related tasks? This fund should be specifically earmarked for these purposes. Are you satisfied with the expenditure from the Justice Fund and the priorities that are in practice pursued by this fund's financial objectives as a minister who specially deals with this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u216	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u217	Thank you, senator, for your questions. I won't be able to answer all of them today, I'm sure I can't answer all of them. Well, I'm sure we'd like the funds to be bigger. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, please... That question in writing will be answered by the senator. Recently, as the senator said, in connection with the COVID, with the epidemic, families are mostly in their homes. We're monitoring this situation, we don't have the full data yet. We're in the process of collecting this data. If they're fully available, we'll be sure to deliver them to the senator. During this very difficult period, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has already taken a lot of action in the area of anti-violence in the family, so that, despite difficulties in direct communication between the family, people affected by violence, know where to turn and what help they can expect. Municipal authorities were approached, with a call to raise awareness of the need to respond to domestic violence. It has been called upon to continue to ensure that victims of violence are protected, bearing in mind that the current situation calls for a change in the way and forms of assistance. The need for absolute protection and ongoing monitoring of the situation of families affected by violence were recommended. We have stressed that it is appropriate to establish contacts with those families where activities under the Blue Card procedure have recently been completed in order to verify that the current situation has not adversely affected the safety of those injured. We have issued instructions on how to organise shelter facilities, such as specialised support centres for victims of domestic violence, homes for mothers with minors and pregnant women, emergency intervention centres, support centres for 24-hour stays. The instructions include recommendations on the organisation of work and the life of collective residents. We have developed guidelines on how to organise interdisciplinary teams and working groups and how to implement the Blue Card procedure. There were a lot of recommendations here, for example. recommendations on limiting the activities of the interdisciplinary team to the necessary tasks. By remote means of communication... We have indicated that working groups should work in the form of telephone calls, teleconferences, e-mail or other correspondence. We recommended that once an individual aid plan has been established for individuals A member of the working group has been appointed to contact a person in the family and a member of the working group to contact a violent person. We recommended that the situation of the family, if possible, be monitored on an ongoing basis through telephone calls and other available means. Of course, attention was paid to the need for police intervention in cases of suspected escalation of violence. We pointed to the need to include families where violence is experienced by children, special protection and the absolute need for ongoing monitoring of the situation. We are up to date in contacts with the heads of social services departments in voivodships, actually every day at video conferences we discuss these situations that happen there, and we try to react on an ongoing basis. So much for that question. Next case. The senator asked about economic violence. Economic violence is a phenomenon... I mean, I have to stress that the definition of violence in the anti-violence law in the family includes physical, mental and sexual violence, in turn economic violence is a psychological phenomenon, which is not only about economics but also about mental addiction and humiliation of one of the parties. It is a tool for manipulating the victim, subjugating it, causing submission, often with other forms of violence. In this sense, economic violence is a form of mental violence and is defined as a behaviour designed to control the ability of one partner to acquire resources, maintain and use household or other economic resources. It should be recognised here that the provisions of the Convention concerning economic violence are fulfilled by Poland, according to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I don't remember the next question... Mr. Senator, remind me... Oh, are there any tests? That's what you asked me. Yeah, yeah. You asked if there were any tests. Good. We have repeatedly studied the phenomenon of economic violence against women and against men. Studies have shown that the percentage of people experiencing economic violence during their lifetime In 2014, 4.3%. Now such tests have also been carried out and the results of these tests will also be notified to the senator. Oh, Mr. Senator asked if we were gonna change the statistics. Yes? Well, we're working on a change to the National Anti-Motoring Program in the Family, and now we're working very hard on it. In 2020 this current programme ends, in this new programme we will really change statistics, we will... It will be more detailed statistics, but in detail I will present it when I present a new program, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u218	The senator wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u219	Yeah, one thing. The Minister said you're analyzing Which is very good news for me, the situation related to the increase in phenomena, i.e. with this likely increase in domestic violence during the pandemic period. I'd like to ask if this information, what you said about this analysis you're running... I ask this because we receive such signals, that unfortunately in parts of local government units they stopped working or suspended their activities interdisciplinary teams. There is even such information that not to the full extent There are places like this. The police carry out their duties in the context of the Blue Card procedure. Do these signals come to you as well? And whether you are taking action in this area, e.g. where these statutory obligations are not carried out, any actions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u220	You're welcome, Minister. If you don't mind, maybe the director... Of course. If you are accompanied by a team, any of the accompanying women can speak freely. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u221	Mr Senator, with regard to the situation related to the COVID, as the Minister said, the guidelines issued by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy clearly indicated that no one, any of the services, was exempt from anti-violence measures in order to ensure that people suffering from violence in the family continue to feel safe. This means that the family minister proposed only a different form of action, i.e. telephone or e-mail contacts, or through trust phones. We didn't get any signals, we didn't have a letter in the context of individual or institutional intervention, which would indicate that a member of the interdisciplinary team didn't arrive, didn't react, that the police didn't react. I will tell you more when last Friday we participated, as representatives of the Department of Social Assistance and Integration, in a video conference organized by the 12 largest cities in Poland. This conference was about anti-violence measures in the family in the current pandemic state. It was the heads of the social affairs departments or vice-presidents who spoke clearly about the actions they were taking, that absolutely no one was avoiding intervention. As to the senator's question about statistics and these worrying signals about the increased number, I would like to say that at this video conference it did not seem that there was an increase in the number of people who are currently experiencing, during the COVID epidemic, violence. Of course, as the Minister said, we monitor it and collect specific data from the police, because it should be the best source of information. But it's gonna be a minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u222	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u223	Thank you very much. Minister, my question is as follows. When we voted on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, many emotions aroused what was expressed and what was described in the Convention, which concerned the social roles of the various sexes or so-called. gender studies. To be honest with you, I voted back then with my skepticism and my fear. Since you are presenting this report today, I would like to ask whether, during the period that this report covers, you have noted any initiatives in this area, whether there were any, possibly what and how you feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u224	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. This specific question will be answered by Director Shostak, Director of the International Cooperation Department, who is involved in this field. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u225	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator, for that question. At the time of the deposit of ratification documents, Poland also made a declaration that it would apply the Convention in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This was also the issue of the concept of socio-cultural gender. So that in the report that we have presented, we are basing ourselves on this statement made at that time. Therefore, the whole report, because of the statement, pointed to our current situation and current law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u226	Thank you very much. Senator Lover. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the anti-violence law in the family dates back to 2005, if I remember correctly, but the amendment of this law, which gave it a whole new shape. Sorry, I have to turn my phone off. It dates back to 2010. Since 2010, she's been pregnant by the Minister. Today, the Minister of the Family, and really social security, is required to report annually to the Senate and the Sejm on the operation of the Act. I'd like to ask. And that's my first question. When was the last time you reported to the Sejm and the Senate on this matter? The second thing, also related to the operation of this law. During your speech, you said that the signature of the President's recent amendment to the Family Violence Act of 17 May 2020 enabled the real protection of the victim of domestic violence to enter into force before she was removed from her home. It's about throwing out the perpetrator of violence. You said this was a change to the anti-violence law in the family. No. This is one of the solutions which concerned the Civil Code, not this law, although it greatly affects the quality of the performance of the tasks resulting from this Act, because the Law of 2010 provided for this possibility. These new provisions on the Civil Code really make it easier to act on the provisions of the law on anti-violence in the family. In connection with this law Senator Kwiatkowski also asked this question a moment ago. There are interdisciplinary teams and working teams operating in each municipality. I am very pleased that you are helping to carry out your tasks during the pandemic, but my question concerns what has been signalled to us for some nice years, and relates to the way and quality of operation of both interdisciplinary teams and working groups. It's just about pay for work. Do you consider the fact that these people perform really difficult tasks? I'm not talking about the psychological effects of doing them anymore. These people do this work free of charge, which also gives rise to many perturbations, unnecessary, I think. In the course of your reflection on the amendment of this law, did such an idea arise, or does such an idea even exist in the Ministry? Are you working on it, or do you want to improve it? And one more thing, also related to this bill, about this issue. Namely, there was a time when we put in place laws that penalized a parent financially that made it impossible for the other parent to communicate with the child. It was financial punishment. Now it's a lot like this. I would like to draw attention to this, also asking that this be included in the work on the law. That there are certain situations in which people who are punished financially, most often mothers, are exposed to house auctions and are actually deprived of funds, I do not say that they are living, but to live with a child when they come from violent families and when this violence was the cause of a break-up with a partner. This is a new scope of responsibilities and it is worth to pay attention to it while working on the bill. That is why I keep asking about this reporting, which I think has simply not been in the last few years. The last question in this area concerns who is coordinating today. According to the bill, if I remember correctly, it's called a monitoring team or something, maybe you'll remind me. In any case, this is the coordination of the work of the five ministries, which the Minister mentioned by initiating the presentation of information. The work of these 5 ministries in the field of anti-violence law shall be coordinated at least by the Undersecretary of State of the Ministry responsible for social security. Who's running this band today? When was his last session? And what conclusions do you draw from these meetings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u228	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u229	I'll answer some questions. As far as the bill is concerned, work has begun on the law at the Ministry. That's the first answer. Two. The senator wants to know who's coordinating. Me, for four months. Yeah, I've been coordinating it for four months. And about the last time you... In fact, in the last four months, the band hasn't met, but it was also a bit of an epidemiology and others. I don't know if it's more important or less important because they're all important. The Ministry's work. Nevertheless, we are planning such a meeting in the near future. I can answer these questions, and I ask Director Bartosiewicz to answer the rest.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u230	Dear Senator and Senator! In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Minister is required to report to the Sejm and the Senate on the implementation of the national programme against violence in the family. This happens every year until 30 September. We always do this duty. And in this report... It's not like in the case of e.g. it ensures that every two years the report on the implementation of the law is, only we report on the implementation of the national anti-violence programme in the family. Since the national anti-violence programme in the family is essentially an operationalisation of the provisions or provisions of the Anti-violence Act in the family, we always describe in the report the actions resulting from both the provisions of the national programme and the provisions of the Anti-violence Act in the family. As far as I'm concerned, In fact, the monitoring team consists of 5 representatives of local governments, 7 representatives of administrations or ministries and 10 representatives of non-governmental organisations. Recently, members of the team have been working on developing assumptions for a new national programme against family violence. Recently, we had a meeting in December when they were handed over to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to the new national programme against family violence. And now we are planning to meet in a remote form, otherwise we cannot, at the beginning of July this year. When it comes to interdisciplinary teams and their work fees, we're going back a little bit to history and the old topic. When we worked on creating interdisciplinary teams, also at the level of the Sejm and the Senate, we said it was a new form of work. Because each member of the interdisciplinary team Both a policeman, a social worker and others He has always worked to prevent violence in the family, and now only as if they changed the formula, which means they work together, interdisciplinaryly. And I know, Senator, that of course this is an additional burden on them and their additional work, which is why for some time we have been wondering and thinking about how to congratulate this work. Nevertheless, the running of interdisciplinary teams must be said here. It is the task of the local authorities themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u231	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u232	I mean, here's what I'm gonna say: I don't get the feeling. I'm sorry to say this. • that cases related to the prevention of violence should be dealt with in a special way quickly and prioritizely in recent times. I don't feel like it. And I'm sorry to say that. Since the bill is 10 years old and the director says that for 10 years we've been wondering how to congratulate and whether to congratulate working in teams... it's the questioning in the ministry for 10 years that raises my objection. It's been a long time. It's either like this or it's like this. The fact that the monitoring team recently met in December and the next meeting is planned in July, and that we are talking about changing the provisions of this law for at least 5 years, is also a bit... Not even a little. This is a pretty unsatisfying pace of work. Therefore, I accept what you ladies say, but I take the view that this is far too little. On this issue, we really should unite our actions and move on, because there is no one here in this Chamber, I think, and in the plenary room of the Sejm, who would like to take sides on the violent side. We're all against it, so let's do something to make it work. Changes in the civil code were a step in the right direction, which very quickly allowed the perpetrator of violence to be removed from his apartment. I also propose that you take an interest in yourself. Ladies, because the ladies themselves are sitting here on these matters I have and financial penalties for preventing contact with the other parent. Let me remind you that the child has the right to interact with both parents, but the truth is that these financial penalties, which we usually impose on women, result in terrible consequences. It may be worth discussing in the monitoring team, because there both the Minister of Justice and the Ministers of Health, Education, etc., are able to change the rules, suggest a change of them, in general anything to do about it. And this is a case that gets really ugly and dramatic blushes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u233	Thank you very much. Marshal Gabriel Moravian Staneck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u234	Good morning. At first, I would like to clarify a formal issue, because I think there has been a very big misunderstanding here. The agenda item contains information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. The letter of the Head of the NAP was received by the bureau and in this letter it is stated that it was the Minister of Justice who was authorised by the Prime Minister to provide this information. So I have the first question: why do you report on the implementation of the Family Violence Act, since the point clearly states that it is about informing the President of the Council of Ministers about the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence? Let me remind you that this is what we call it. Istanbul Convention. And that's my first question. There will be others, but I would like the Minister to answer that question at the beginning. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u235	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u236	Well, we're coordinating the work, and from here... I understand that this is why we are presenting this report, Senator. I have a question as to whether this is a report on the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Yes or no? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u237	Yes. Good. Then, Mr. Marshal, let me ask you another question. The first question that arises is: why is there no Minister of Justice or any of the representatives of the Ministry of Justice? And now for my next question. In our national legal order... It's about art. 36 conventions. There is a definition of rape in the national legal order that deviates far from the Istanbul Convention. The definition of rape contained in the article. The 36th Istanbul Convention is based on the so-called. the definition of consent, i.e. any sexual activity, sexual activity towards another person may be carried out only if consent is given by a person capable of making statements of his will. And now the question. Well, our government is very efficient in sudden changes to criminal law, not always needed, so I have a question: are work on updating the definition of rape ongoing or planned? That's one of the questions I'm gonna ask one at a time. If the Minister could answer that, I would be very obliged.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u238	I understand that's a question for the Minister of Justice and... But the Minister just said that it is the Minister who is authorized by all the ministries to answer the questions, so I ask the question. Then you'll have a written answer to that question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you another question. The victims of economic violence in Poland fall at least 12% Women and 6% Men. This economic violence involves using the family's wealth to addict itself or humiliate another person, a partner, a householder or a family member, cutting him off from the common money, preventing him from using means of transport, from using his car, taking his paid salary, taking control of his finances. This economic violence is a lot of very bad socially, but also towards a particular person, behavior. In the last parliamentary term, there was a request for the introduction of §25 into the article. 115 criminal code, i.e. the definition of economic violence. I have a simple question: when will you lead to the fact that Poles and Poles will have legal protection against economic persecution?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u240	You're welcome, Minister. Just before... That's part of the question I've been answering, but... Minister, wait a minute. I'm sorry. One piece of cleanup information. However, I would very much ask the senators to stick to this regime that we have a minute to ask... That's why I'm asking, Mr. Marshal, one at a time... ...so we don't ask such a series of questions. Just let every senator ask a question and then sign up for the question again, because otherwise, these questions are awfully cumulative. It's hard to answer, too. There was always such a custom that it seemed to be a question, there was an answer, a question. You can cross a few lines like this. Okay? Dear Marshal, then sign me up six times. You're welcome. Six times, right? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u241	I have partially answered the question of economic violence, and as far as the specific question is concerned, you will also receive a written reply, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u242	Senator Eve Matecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u243	Dear Minister, children are the victims of violence to a large extent. This phenomenon is particularly increasing now, during a pandemic period, which teachers very often talk about without direct contact with children and leading remote teaching. Teachers say a few hundred, several thousand children are missing in time and space. And with great probability this is either because of the digital exclusion of children, or because of the violence in the family. Are you conducting such observations, or are you monitoring this situation? And what are your plans to prevent this from happening in the future, because Coronavirus is expected to return in the fall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u244	As for the problem that your senator raised, it is monitored by the Ministry of National Education, because, as you said yourself, teachers report such problems. To us directly, to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy this kind of attention does not affect. So it is the Ministry of National Education that deals with this problem. Thank you. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u246	But the child is a member of the family and, therefore, it may be necessary to draw such a conclusion that it would be worth working closely with the Ministry of National Education to prevent such situations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u247	In addition, I would say that we, as the Ministry, have asked social workers, have called on social workers to take particular care of their relations with their families. We also do this in contact with the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u248	Thank you very much. Again, you're Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. Art. The 9 conventions concern NGOs and civil society. And it should be noted that since 2016, some social organisations, such as those which are not organisations, are not entitled to this name by right-wing name, do not receive subsidies from the Ministry of Justice, e.g. such as the association Baba, the Foundation, we give the Children strength, and the Center for Women's Rights. On the one hand, measures which have been passed on to victims and on the other hand, the Ministry is extremely generous towards organisations clearly defined right-wing. When the government starts fulfilling its obligation under Article. 9 conventions to support NGOs and civil society in the fight against violence? When asked why these funds were cut, the answer was that for ideological reasons. Then I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u250	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u251	Let me disagree with the senator. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is very supportive of NGOs, especially during the COVID epidemic. So here I'm going to allow myself absolutely to disagree. About the cut you picked up... I don't have the information that's been cut off for some organizations. And as for the fact that the Ministry of Justice is cutting... I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice to explain this matter, because I have no such information. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And you'll get that information from the senator. But she will also complete the answer to that question, Mrs Bartosiewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u252	Mrs. Senator, I would just like to inform you that, as you know, there are 36 specialised support centres in the country for victims of domestic violence. These centres are financed by the State budget and some of these centres are run by NGOs. Out of 36 specialist support centres, 5 are run by NGOs and are located in Wrocław, Lublin, Łódź, Warsaw and Cracow. Between 2016 and 2018, from the state budget, 4 million PLN 558 thousand were transferred to run these specialised support centres for victims of violence in the family of non-governmental organisations that run them. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u253	Thank you very much. The question you're asking is the senator... Joanna Sekuła. ...Joanna Sekuła from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u254	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I do not know if this will be the right question for the Minister, but since the Minister has declared that she is coordinating work in connection with the Istanbul Convention, I have made sure that she will be the right recipient. On 6 May, we attended a meeting in which we examined changes in the c.p.c. Mr Romanowski was present, in general terms, concerning the perpetrators of violence. During this meeting, he made a kind of coming out, because he said what he thought was going to happen, but also the entire Ministry's plans for the Istanbul Convention. And after this particular coming out he wrote a tweet, which I will read: The Istanbul Convention speaks of religion as a cause of violence against women. We want to say this gender gibberish ratified by PO and PSL. We're not interested in opinions abroad. For us, the basis is the sovereign national state. I have a question for the Minister: is what I just read also the position of the Ministry of the Family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u255	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u256	Mrs. Senator, it seems that later Minister Romanowski said that this is his private opinion. As far as the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is concerned, I would like to say that there is no work going on regarding the termination of the Convention. Some decisions, some thinking about it could take place after careful examination of the report on the implementation of its provisions, receiving recommendations from Grevio and developing conclusions and recommendations. At the moment, I am firmly saying that there is no work going on regarding the termination of the Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u257	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister about the statement of the Vice Minister of Justice, Mr Marcin Romanowski, from three weeks ago, who said that the convention discussed today was a Marxist gibberish... That was already, the minister just answered. Excuse me. Then I'm the one who's backing out. I've been busy for a while and I haven't... [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's another question. Okay, I'm sorry. I would like to clarify the question: is there a discussion, work or plans in the government regarding the exit, termination of the convention?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u259	I just said it. There is no work going on on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u260	The question is asked by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Now there will be a question related to the article. 6 and 60 conventions. The Convention in these 2 provisions requires us to take social and cultural issues into account in the fight against violence and requires us to take this criterion into account when helping asylum seekers. In practice, we're dealing with, at least in the media, scaring the mythical gender... Well, that's the way you deal with it, which means you don't understand the meaning of the concept. Is the government considering a return to normality and the inclusion of gender issues in the creation of its policies, both policies to help asylum seekers and other policies?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u262	Please answer me. Director Shostak will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Senator, I can only stress that at the moment it is not planned to withdraw from the declaration made at the time of ratification that the Convention is being implemented in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u264	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have said that you are the coordinator of the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, and at the same time you cannot answer questions about cases for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible. I would therefore like to ask what your cooperation is like, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Justice in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u266	Please answer me. Director Shostak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Senator, the Ministry has been appointed as coordinator, but, as the Minister mentioned at the beginning, the Convention is very broad in scope and applies to a very large number of resorts. It is also implemented by various institutions and at local government level. As regards cooperation in the preparation of the report on the implementation of the Convention, of course, each of the ministries involved has provided us with their contribution to the report. Then we reviewed all data on an ongoing basis in cooperation with the various ministries, and, in case of doubt, we asked the various ministries to verify, verify and supplement the data. It is on this basis that a report was produced, quite comprehensive and holistic, and as such it was adopted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u268	Thank you so much for your answer. The next question will be asked by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Now I have an article question. 30 conventions, i.e. with the right to compensation. Because victims of violence have the right to compensation by the perpetrators, and in a situation where the damage was not covered by the perpetrator From the State Treasury. The State should be responsible not only for illegal activities but also for its omissions and for the weakest. Since the Convention provides for liability for damages to the State Treasury in situations where damage has not been covered by other sources, I have this question: are there any formal and material guarantees as to compensation claims by victims in situations where the State has acted slow or certain provisions have not been implemented? Was such compensation paid? What was the amount? And did the Council of Ministers secure funds for the payment of such potential damages to victims?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u270	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u271	This particular question, of course, will be answered in writing, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u272	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u273	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I would like to ask you one question, because your and your friends' answers are a little disturbing. The coordinator's definition is that the coordinator manages daily work on his duties. Since it is your duty to coordinate the implementation of the Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, it seems to me that you should have the power to actually participate in the work of all these teams that deal with these matters, in fact coordinate their work. I would therefore like to ask you what problems you have in this regard and what makes it impossible for you to do all this. Well, for example. today you cannot answer most of the most important questions in this area. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u274	Thank you. There you go, Minister. Director Shostak will answer. Please, Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u275	Thank you very much for that question, Senator. We've been assigned to coordinate... Could I have your answer to the microphone, please? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, yes, thank you very much. We as Ministry last year were assigned to coordinate the process of preparing a report on the implementation of the Convention, and of course we did so because such a report was prepared in close cooperation with other resorts. However, as I have already pointed out, the scope of these matters is so wide that it covers the activities of. even when it comes to the implementation at national level of very many ministries and very many organisational units.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u276	Anything else, Director? You're done, aren't you? Thank you. Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have another question: have you made any efforts to restore anti-discrimination education in schools, with particular emphasis on combating harmful gender stereotypes and gender-based violence, including economic violence? Can you assure us that the family education programme will cover this subject? Perhaps the Minister will be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u278	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u279	The answer to that question will be in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u280	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Is anyone else checking in? No. Mr. Marshal... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u281	I'm on a formal issue. Namely, from all these answers it appears that the Minister is competent only in part, and in a smaller part. I don't know why a representative of the Ministry of Justice didn't show up here, since it was the Minister of Justice who was authorized to present this document. So my request, or proposal, is that Mr Marshal, however, address the Prime Minister, inform him of this situation and ask those government representatives who have been appointed and competent to come here for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u282	Of course, we can ask for information again and ask the Minister of Justice for it, but it seemed to me that the Minister was trying to answer for him as well. However, we can repeat this information if there is such a request, the Chamber will agree to it. You're welcome, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u283	Mr. Marshal, I am not requesting that this information be repeated, because here will be written answers obtained, of course, from the Ministry of Justice. All I'm saying is that it wasn't done the right way and that those who are appointed by the Prime Minister would come.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u284	Good. Mr. Senator, I think we're gonna ask your marshal to write an appropriate letter to the Minister of Justice, because unfortunately this situation... To the Prime Minister. To the Prime Minister, okay, okay. ... Because this situation is repeating itself, it's not an incident. Senator Lover. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u285	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I think in this case... I don't know what letter was sent to your marshals, it seems someone else has been appointed by the government, but here is some huge misunderstanding and chaos. At the beginning of her speech, the Minister stated that the Ministry and this monitoring team, established by the law on family violence and coordinating the work of the 5 ministries, is authorised, is designated by the Council of Ministers as the one who will implement the provisions of the Convention. The Minister has been in office for 4 months. The band, as you've heard, worked the last time in December. Deputy Minister Romanowski has come to us, he has announced something that the Ministry responsible has no idea. The Minister wrote what he wrote, i.e. that we are performing and will abolish ratification, and the Minister authorised to implement the provisions of the Convention says that this is not the intention at all. It seems that in this case neither the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of Family, but the Prime Minister may give us competent information. To be honest, I cannot imagine that today's Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy can oppose what the Minister of Justice has to say. Yet she is responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Convention. I stress the chaos in this government. No one but the Prime Minister will give us competent information on this matter. Good. What's the question, Senator? I would like us to address not the Minister of Justice, but the Prime Minister of the Government with this letter we have discussed. But that was the suggestion. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] If the Minister... Mrs. Senator... That's the last sentence... No, no. We're part of the question... I can see where we are, Mr. Marshal. Then ask me. No, I'm not gonna ask anymore. Thank you very much... I volunteered before Marshal Borowski came forward, which is why I repeated my argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u286	I understand, but I think racing Marshal Borowski... There's no chance here. That's what I think. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u287	Thank you very much. I have such a question about legal doubts related to the Istanbul Convention. Namely, there was a discussion in the legal literature about the fact that the Istanbul Convention is contrary to the previous Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified by Poland, and at the same time implies an internal contradiction of the Constitution, Art. 9 as regards discrimination in anti-violence measures. And I have a question: are there any legal papers at government level that would resolve these doubts? I do not expect an answer right now because it is a specialised legal question, but I expect a position on this matter in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u288	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u289	Such information shall be provided in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u290	Sure, there's gonna be a written answer. Yes. In writing, there will be an answer to this issue, because in fact it is not a question, it is a question to be clarified. Problem, yes, sir. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, by Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Thank you, Minister, but stay a while longer because we haven't finished working on this point. Good. Now I would like to welcome Mr Stanisław Trociuk, Deputy Ombudsman, present at the meeting. Would you like to speak? Yes. You're welcome. You can come from this place, but you can also go here, to the podium. Well, maybe I'll take it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u291	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Ombudsman is currently drawing up a rather detailed study on the implementation of the Convention, which is the subject of today's discussion, and I would therefore like to share just a few comments on the implementation of this Convention. In the view of the Ombudsman, there is a need to make changes in terms of the definition of family violence, because the Convention does, however, distinguish between psychological violence and economic violence, and this is directly due to the provisions of this Convention. In the view of the Ombudsman, it is necessary to make a certain adjustment in this respect in the current legal state. The second issue relates to the legislative work that has recently taken place in the High House, namely the revision of legislation. Police and Civil Procedure Code Act. The Ombudsman welcomes these changes, which were introduced by the Act of 30 April, namely those concerning the immediate removal of the perpetrator of violence, although these provisions seem to require some adjustment. As far as I know, the High House has already taken some action, as evidenced by the content of Senate printing 138, which is intended to amend the Police Act. First of all, it is about shortening the vacathio legis and speeding up the entry into force of these provisions, as well as setting a shorter deadline for the person, the potential perpetrator of the violence, to order him to leave the apartment. So that we really welcome these changes. Still exists And the ombudsman identifies it. The problem of creating a sufficient number of places in specialised support centres and shelters. In the Ombudsman's view, the number of these places is still insufficient. The problem that also arises from the Convention is the problem of the effectiveness of therapeutic actions against perpetrators, because the Convention provides for such actions to be carried out against the perpetrators of violence. Meanwhile, Polish laws allow the voluntary conduct of therapeutic activities, which often means that the perpetrator of such an act is not subjected to any work at all, either in a prison or, when the penalty is imposed in suspension, in conditions of freedom, he is even convinced that he may have been wrongly victim of justice. And it seems that these educational and corrective impacts should be increased. What the Minister was talking about is the development of more detailed statistics on the victims of domestic violence, because today these data that are being collected seem not to be very precise. The Ombudsman's assessment should also change the methodology for dealing with these data. The problem of the victim assistance fund, the Justice Fund, and the spending of funds from this fund were also raised, which was also discussed and the subject of the Ombudsman's action to direct funds from this fund to victims of crime. And finally, I want to point out a problem that isn't quite complete. Of course, we do not have the hard data yet identified, this is the problem that Senator Kwiatkowski raised in his question about what is happening to the victims of violence in an epidemic state. The Ombudsman's Office is now being visited by various information on this subject, but it also influences, as I understand it, confirmed in official official documents, because these are, for the time being, partial data provided by the regional offices of the region, rather disturbing information that there are local self-government units in which the Blue Card procedure was not conducted at all in the epidemic state. That's pretty disturbing information. Of course, this requires an examination and determination of the scale of this phenomenon, because it may be incidents of an incidental nature, but such information to the Ombudsman's Office is affected. Finally, I would like to talk about the issue of statistics. Of course, we have statistics that are presented by the police regarding the number of police interventions in the case of victims of domestic violence. This number varies, but it persists, you can say, at a certain level, with annual fluctuations from 4 to 5%. But This is shown by a study carried out last year by the Ministry of Labour, perhaps there is a number of undiscovered cases of domestic violence, because this study shows that a fairly large number of people have experienced violence, but many of them have not taken any action to prevent violence. So there may be an unidentified number of victims of domestic violence. How big we don't know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. There may be questions for you, but you can answer questions from your place, you can take your place. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Spokesman a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I have a question for you. Well, as we know, Slovakia rejected the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, calling for, among others, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. for constitutional protection of the institution of marriage as a union between men and women. Is the Ombudsman's office monitored by the situation as regards the Convention, the ratification process and the debate around the Convention, which in various Member States is mainly concerned with the Member States of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u294	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u295	Of course, we listened to this discussion. Well, this is the decision that the Slovak State has made. Poland has ratified the Convention and it seems that there have been no constitutional obstacles to ratifying this Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u296	Thank you. There you go, senator one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u297	I would repeat this question, which I asked the Minister, concerning these and constitutional doubts, and the contradictions between this convention and the Convention on the Rights of the Child raised in legal literature. As I say, this is about the views and the discussion that is taking place in the expert world. Is there any knowledge in the Ombudsman's office about this discussion? And if so, what is the position on this matter, or is there no position? Is the Ombudsman's office active in this discussion or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u298	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u299	We act primarily on matters that affect us. I do not recall the fact that the Convention poses a threat to the protection of the rights of the child. I would not like to enter into a very detailed discussion here, but, of course, we are dealing with issues that are undoubtedly quite controversial in society. Well, these are things that, for example, recently in the press, have been widely described regarding the drawing up of civil status records. But it doesn't have much to do with violence in a situation where in a foreign civil status act they are listed as parents of a same-sex person. We are conducting this with regard to the protection of the rights of the child, because it turns out that the Polish state does not want to, and often cannot, by obscuring itself with laws, issue identity documents. So such a person, even though he is a Polish citizen, does not even have a PESEL number. But it's like, in my opinion, beyond the very content of the anti-violence convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u300	Thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that this item is on the agenda at this meeting. It is very important that many senators have supported this initiative, but to oblige the government to report on the implementation of the anti-violence convention. A convention that is very important for those who experience violence. A convention that is very important to victims of violence, most of which are women and children, the weakest. But, of course, the victims of violence. That's a few percent. Men fall, too. Nevertheless, it is very sad that the government has ignored this debate because we have been informed that the Minister of Justice has been obliged to provide this information and that a representative from another ministry has appeared who has not been able to answer most of the specific questions raised in this debate. Violence against women in Poland is a very serious problem. Nearly 2,000 500 rape cases are initiated each year. And we know well that this is only the percentage of rape crimes that occur in Poland at all. This is because victims of this type of crime are stigmatized, because there are no appropriate conditions for criminal proceedings against perpetrators of such crimes to be effective, quick, but also free from the second stigmatisation of the victim. As of the 2019 data, the Commission considers that the measures The police have opened 74,000 313 Blue Card procedures. According to the community, these figures also do not reflect the scale of the problem. Official data confirm that about 100,000 domestic violence is reported annually in Poland. According to the estimates of NGOs dealing with this issue, this is only the tenth part of the problem. Half a thousand women die in Polish homes every year. They're murdered by their partners, they die of injuries after a beating, or they commit suicide. Statistics clearly state that only a few percent , depending on the test methodology Okay. Okay. Okay, okay, okay, okay, over the age of thirteen has not experienced violence in the past. It's a national drama. It is the Istanbul Convention that imposes numerous obligations on your parties. These include: such commitments, which relate to the provision of specialised assistance to victims of sexual violence, investing in actions to prevent such violence by raising public awareness and anti-violence education and anti-discrimination education in the media, as well as the involvement of non-governmental organisations and the promotion of victims' access to justice. Unfortunately, Poland is far behind in the development of comprehensive defence mechanisms and implementation of these rules. The government has done very little to introduce basic definitions of domestic violence into the national legal order. There have been attempts to define the concept of economic violence by adding a new paragraph to the vocabulary of concepts in the Penal Code, that is, to the article. 115. The ruling majority didn't want that. You didn't want to put an end to the disgraceful practice of begging for every penny, taking hard-earned money from your mates, or making spending on sexual matters dependent. I know such cases very well, because I took care of, among others, a quarter of a century. such victims, women who couldn't be helped sometimes. They feared their oppressors because they knew the state was powerless because they knew the police were powerless. Cops often said during intervention that they would not interfere in family affairs. Well, a policeman could advise one of my clients to move out of the house, or her partner would eventually kill her, and he wouldn't be able to help it. Another area where the government has done a lot to do nothing is the definition of rape. Convention in Article. 36 requires you to take the necessary measures to develop a comprehensive definition of rape. This change is very much needed. The point is that the perpetrators of such violence should be severely prosecuted and the victims protected. Because rape doesn't only happen when the victim uses force. Studies show that many rape victims are paralyzed by fear. Studies show that very often rape occurs in the family, among the closest people, and the court is unable to convict the perpetrator because it shows that the victim did not use enough force to defend himself. The definition of rape in a civilized world is a definition based on the lack of consent of a person who is able to take legal action himself. It is a lack of consent of a person who is fully aware of the consequences. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It means, for example, that a woman who sleeps, is not allowed to rape, to act against her will, that a woman who is under the influence of alcohol, must not be raped, using the fact that she is unable to defend herself. That's what we're fighting for. And the government of this He doesn't understand. The functioning of NGOs, those organizations that operate not in Warsaw, Krakow, not in big cities, but in small towns, small centres... These are organizations that are close to people. Without them, you are unable to carry out public tasks. These organisations are often much better at diagnosing problems and providing an effective solution. This is why the Convention imposes an obligation to support such organisations and civil society in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. Unfortunately, our practice is quite the opposite. Instead of supporting the third sector, providing him with administrative, financial, logistical support, they are deprived of it. Organisations that have been helping women from violent families for years, e.g. The Green Mountain association, which has helped victims of domestic violence for 20 years, received the last support from the Ministry of Justice in 2015. They can't count on any government support. This is part of a broader concept of distrust towards those who cannot be controlled. You're doing this against the interests of battered women, abused children. The lack of funding for such organisations is a lack of support for these people. There was a lot of talk about the family, the exposé premiere was full of clichés about the family. But family is also a family in which there is violence, and the government should do everything in its power to fight this violence. Today's discussions and questions, or perhaps more answers or lack of them, show the image of our country, its attitude towards the weakest ones. This is a country that is not only weak to the strong, it is still powerless to the weak. Lack of comprehensive strategies, lack of funding for the non-governmental sector, lack of willingness to implement the provisions of the Convention, encouraging: best not to apply... I'm not gonna tell you who said those words again. And I'm really gonna say, at the end of the day, it's hard for me to understand... It's not like the government or the right doesn't care about violence. I believe the state is against violence. You only have one problem. And the problem is that you are slaves to your ideology, that you do not have the courage to oppose the ideology of the Catholic Church, which advises the victims of violence to be with their oppressors, who say that they should carry this cross because marriage is for life. The church brands women who have escaped from their oppressors. And the government is afraid to stand in the truth and say, no, we are a civilized country, we have to face the problem. But that's probably just in your heads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I wanted to talk about another matter, but I will admit that I am appalled by the performance of the Marshal of Moravian-Stanetsky, because such a display of anti-Clericalism, anti-Catholic ideology, I have not heard in this House in a long time. This reminds me of the atmosphere of these pamphlets from the 1920s, from the Soviet Union, the Jemelian type brochures, the Lawless One at Work and others. This is the anti-Catholic ideology that shows that the real purpose of the Istanbul Convention is to fight the Catholic Church. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You just said that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...very bright. I'd like to point out that you're manipulating data. You refer to the Feminoteka data referring to European research. The average European rate for women's violence is 27.5 out of 100, the higher the result, the worse the situation is. Poland with an indicator of 22.1 is placed first, as a country where there is the least violence against women. So all the thesis you just gave was based on ideological, anti-Catholic, contrary to the conviction and world view of millions of Poles. We had this show in this House. And now here's what I'd like to say about the Ombudsman's statement. In December, the Supreme Administrative Court announced a very important resolution on an unprecedented case. The judge hearing the cassation action on the refusal to transcrib the birth certificate of a child in which two women were entered as parents asked the enlarged NSA legal question of serious doubt. The case concerned the inclusion, transposition into the Polish civil status books of the birth certificate, in which two women were entered as parents. The birth certificate was drawn up in the UK, and as parents of the child there were two women, one of whom was entered as a mother and her partner as a parent, which is in accordance with British law. The reason for submitting a request for transcription was the desire to obtain a passport for a minor son who is a Polish citizen. The question was raised by doubts as to whether, in the event of an article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 The law on civil status requires a transcription of a foreign birth certificate in order to obtain an ID card or passport, the body examining a request for a transcription may refuse it by reference to a public policy clause. In the case at hand, the head of the civil status office refused to transcribe, the decision upheld the voivode, and the court of first instance dismissed the complaint by referring to the principles of the Polish legal order which do not allow the introduction into the national legal circulation of a birth certificate with the same sex parents concerned. The Supreme Administrative Court in its resolution of 2 December 2019 indicated that it was not possible to include in the Polish act of marital status instead of the father of the child of a parent who is not a man, because this would be contrary to the fundamental principles of legal order in Poland, so-called. a public policy clause. The principles of the Polish legal order are first formed by the constitution in which Article. 18 established the primary principle of protection of the family as a relationship between women and men, and the family, motherhood and parenthood were under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. In this resolution, the Court of First Instance concluded that Polish law is shaped by principles which result from the basic axiology based on traditional and permanent family ties adopted in the Act. This is expressed in the standards of family law, which every time as a father name a man. The Polish legislator also did not foresee a model act of civil status, which could include the same-sex data as parents of a child. The Polish birth certificate provides for the possibility of entering the data of the mother and father, but does not know the category of parent. It is also not possible to leave the empty box of the father. At the same time, what is important, because of the best interests of the child, the court stressed that it is not possible to make the acquisition of Polish citizenship by a child born abroad dependent on the previous operation of typing the transcription of the foreign birth certificate into the Polish civil status act. The welfare of a child who is a Polish citizen would otherwise be affected. Every child, regardless of his family situation, has the same right as a married child. Therefore, administrative authorities issuing identity documents or issuing a PESEL number in cases such as in a case pending before the Supreme Administrative Court must take into account the best interests of the child and issue a document, passport or proof, or issue a PESEL number without requiring parents to provide a copy of the Polish birth certificate. A foreign birth certificate will be a sufficient basis for issuing an identity document or a PESEL number. The NSA's resolution is of vital importance. The Supreme Administrative Court confirmed that Poland is a sovereign state and has the right to regulate family law in accordance with its own axiology adopted in the Constitution. Any changes in family law and, above all, those regarding the recognition of single-sex relationships may not be introduced by the side door on other matters. The issue of transcription of the birth certificate of a child apparently had nothing to do with the recognition by the State of Polish associations of persons of the same sex. However, it can be assumed that in practice it was used to pave the way for further progressive changes in the law and mentality of Poles. It was not by chance that various institutions participated in this procedure. So much for explaining what the deputy spokesperson was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u304	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u305	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These two previous speeches, Marshal Stanecka and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, illustrate very well the problem we have in Poland. And I dare say that mostly in Poland, about which in a moment. Well, it's a problem that two of us have no doubt about it. In this matter, good people have completely different views. This case is not only about polemics, which just took place between the marshal and the senator, but about public life and public debate that we are taking place in Poland. We see that often the most noble people, people we have no doubt about, that they are aroused by the deepest disgust and opposition of domestic violence, who would never raise their own hands on a woman who would always react if such crimes took place in their surroundings... The same people treat the debate about family violence, the debate about the Istanbul Convention as an attack on the Catholic Church as an attack on their own values. And right now... It's not just a case from before, it's a case of Senator Jackowski. And I want to say this very clearly: never in my life, and I have known him for a very long time, I had no doubt that the moral attitude of Senator Jackowski towards these disgusting crimes is exactly the same as mine. I have no doubt about that. But the senator in his best faith believes that discussing this is an attack on the Church. Why? If we look at the history and teaching of this Church, then I don't judge him because I certainly don't have the right to. It must be stated that one of the foundations of the Church's teaching is the indissolubility of marriage. Therefore, in a situation where life confronts people with ideology, in this case religion... When a weeping woman hears from her religious authorities that it is to be viewed as God's act, and the relationship she has made with a filthy, aggressive, and hateful man is holy, this woman feels abandoned. This woman feels deprived of the counsel of people from whom she would expect this counsel and moral guidance. Such a clue certainly is not a counsel to endure pain in suffering, because it is heroism, and to heroism no one must be persuaded or forced to do, the more that heroism in the name of sanctity of marriage, which... I know that I am speaking in very delicate matters and therefore I am doing it carefully, but also in the Christian world this holiness is not so unambiguously, hard defined as in the Catholic Church. It is, of course. And I'm not just talking about people who believe, I'm talking about every ideology. In the life of a man who confesses ideology, I say it, I admit with all openness, from my own experience, there is a moment when this ideology is confronted with real life, real behavior, real choices that stand before us. For some, as for me, if this confrontation is to the detriment of ideology, and for the benefit of life, it ends simply by losing faith. For others, it ends with closing down on other arguments and rather establishing that ideology is right, the world is wrong, and the reality of screeching. And they're not real, although they sound beautifully rhetorical... As a man who knows history very well, Senator Jackowski knows that the frivolous period of Bolshevism lasted until the 1920s and that it is difficult to call the Soviet Union a planet of excessive freedom in the field of family policy. It was fruitful, Mr. Senator, in my youth, with jokes that the most courageous Soviet film was a film about how a collective driver undresses a tractor. And there's something going on, 'cause the Bolsheviks weren't really fryers. Let us also remember that in the field of e.g. legislation covering a very large part of the Polish Catholic opinion, i.e. legislation concerning the absolute ban on abortion... This ban was liberalised in 1956, when it was destalinisation, not Stalinization of Poland. Therefore, for me it is quite ahistorical and grotesque that the Law liberalizing abortion at the time of the Polish People's Republic was a Stalin law. Well, it was a counter-Stalin law because it was from 1956. But that does not mean, of course, that the feelings of believers should be treated with disrespect or contempt. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have to respect and respect people who realize that, first of all, people who, in a good family life, will endure for the rest of their lives, as they have promised, deserve a great deal of respect. But we know very well that life is different. And it doesn't come from some Mason attack, liberals, Communists, neobolsheviks, but it comes from the fact that this life is what it is. The famous British king, not as a result of the Mason ruse and not as a result of the Bolshevik ruse, because then no one had heard of them, went to war with Rome, only because then the problem of marriage was a problem, and in that case it became just a giant political problem on a permanent record in history. However, I think that if only this side of the room that I represent, it will be very clear that the purpose of talking about violence in the family is under no circumstances an attack on a Catholicly understood family... Because her permanence depends only on the will of both those who make up this family. No one can force a man to be with another person if he doesn't want to, and no one can force him to leave that person if he doesn't want to leave her. And I'm gonna say it again and again because we have to respect our adversaries. The purpose of this discussion is not to attack the Catholic family. I will repeat this: the goal is to defend the people who, also in their religion, do not find it very often. But this debate must also be free from the belief that both sides have bad will. For it is not really so, Senator, that here is a group of enemies of the Church who raise this real problem, like a world long and wide, because they want to destroy the Church. Of course, on the other hand, it is not so that here every Polish right-wing Catholic is a hypocrite who mistreats his wife and children, but does not want to talk about it. This, of course, is also a false and false image that harms the participants of this debate. Nevertheless, it cannot be overlooked that the government's policy towards this problem is a policy of hiding its head in the sand. At least that's what I'm gonna do. It is based on ideology, not concern for the fate of citizens. I'm saying this because the demands to denounce the Istanbul Convention were made by the representatives of this government. And that's why we're having this debate. Doubts about this convention were raised in this Chamber by the representatives of this government. And that's why we're having this debate. Therefore, I hope that this kind of conversation between us, Poles, will be possible if we believe that both sides have good intentions. I'm pretty sure it is. It's just that you have to separate. Perhaps there is a dispute that is deeper than just a matter of talking about violence in the family. And let's separate the citizen's worldview, his personal life choices, from the state's policy on this matter. I live in a very deep conviction that morality and conscience cannot replace a criminal code or a police baton. There are political parties, Mr Senator, who, in the resolutions of their political committee, state that members of this committee must not be behaved very badly in a moral way at meetings of the party's exit authorities. Okay. This party is called Law and Justice. Well, such a resolution probably stems from the knowledge of human nature, which is full of sinfulness and is full of falls, of which everyone can, of course, rise up. Nevertheless, morality should be based on personal beliefs, not coercion, because only then does it have value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u306	Thank you, Senator. Well, I haven't heard. about this resolution, but I accept that. Formal conclusion! Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I've seen that we're already going way beyond point fourteen of order. I am glad that Marshal Kaminski, in a sort of circle, has returned to this issue. He raised issues of war with Rome, Russian cinema, etc., but returned to matter. Nevertheless, I think that we have here evidence in the matter: we are slowly exhausting this point. I would therefore ask you to accept the request to close the list of speakers present at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u308	But I will ask: who else would like to speak? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski signed up. Is there anyone else? From participating remotely? Remotes already reported. Reported. Good. Is there an objection to this conclusion? There isn't. As a result, I'm closing... And you, Senator Comfort... Oh, Senator Comfort. Put that in, I haven't closed yet... So just a little while longer, ten more seconds... [[Say off the microphone.]] Excuse me? Because on the Internet... Because there are also some people sitting remotely and we want to enable them to participate. And there are often no such requests to close the list of speakers, and there is often no agreement to such a request. There you go. I'm closing the list of speakers. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In fact, like Senator Zdrojewski... We went far in this discussion, even caught King Henry VIII. I wouldn't expect us to go this far in this discussion. In agreement with Senator Jackowski's statement, I would like to say that I express my outrage and firm opposition to the speech of Marshal Stanecka. You can't go over it like nothing happened, because the bad image and signal coming from the Senate would have been picked up. Your marshal, I dare say, does not know the social teaching of the Church, that is, the teaching of the Church, including the teaching of Pope John Paul. II, a teaching that was initiated by Pope Leon XIII with an encyclical Of course, we are all opposed to violence against women, domestic violence, rape, armed robbery, murder, all those things that are against man, the dignity of a person, the dignity of a man. But there can't be such a message. This is a very sensitive point. The insulting of the Catholic Church... Well, it can't be that kind of transmission coming from the Senate. This is not a debate on this, and I was surprised to hear such a statement that, as a matter of fact, all evil lies in the teaching of the Church. So that once again I would like to express my firm objection and resentment about this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u310	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wojciech Necessary will now speak from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to object to the attack on Marshal Moravian-Stanecka. Your marshal didn't insult anyone at all, quoted data, quoted expert opinions. Unfortunately, that's the case. The charges are wrong here. In fact, I'm surprised that that's the answer, it's like your marshal hit the table and said something to the scissors. I never associate violence in the family with any faith or lack of faith. Of course, here, the voice of Marshal Kaminski, who nicely connected these issues, showed us differences. But Senator Jackowski says things like... about the smallest number of crimes found, it's on the principle of this thermometer, which is broken. If these crimes are not reported, they are not recorded... If our anti-violence system doesn't work the way it should, then there are very few reported events. People don't report because they're scared because they don't know where to report it, because it's not properly publicized. Women are being bullied. Well, that's the situation. And bragging about the fact that there aren't a lot of events... Not a lot of events, just a little reported events. It's not like that at all. a, as has been presented. For me, saying that the speech was anti-Clerical, anti-Catholic, would indicate that there is some kind of permission on the Clerical and Catholic side to the fact that there is violence in the family. It's not like that. So I'm very surprised that that's how those scissors sounded. It's amazing, and this attack was completely unnecessary. At the same time, Senator Komorowski accused the marshal of ignorance of catechism, ignorance of encyclicals. Well, I don't think it's our duty yet to know all these respectable documents. For the time being, we need to know the constitution, we need to know Polish law, we need to call for its observance, and that is what the marshal did, for which she is being attacked, I think, very wrongly. Needlessly, this discussion was brought to the path of faith, lack of faith, or attitude towards the Church, as if we had already lived in a religious state and had to follow all these principles in the discussion. The discussion is free, your marshal didn't say anything wrong, she moved the subject hard, because she's just concerned about it, because she's a professional, because she's been meeting with these women, with these problems, and I think that this is where she deserves her respect, not attacking and accusing something she didn't want to do, and assigning her some wrong intentions... And that means that her opposition to family violence is to be redirected to other routes. This is a game. It's not fair and I object to it. Thank you very much, Marshal, for the substantive statement, which really explained a lot and showed that this problem is important and we have to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u312	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u313	Thank you very much. I'm on my way, Mr. Marshal, too, to save some time. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the work on amending this law in 2010, when I came to the Senate, as rapporteur, with a novel that went through the Sejm. And I remember the debate in the High House, in which the authors of these changes were actually talking about anti-patriotism. I don't want to call it that. When it was said that in the Polish family there is no violence at all, that this is some kind of invention of leftists and that these are nonsense, dubious problems at all, that in Scandinavian countries, which are known for their very strict attitude towards any form of violence, these cases of violence in the family are without comparison more than in Poland. I agree with the previous speaker: yes, this is the method of a broken thermometer. If you don't want to have a temperature, just hit the thermometer and goodbye. It is not true that there is no violence in the Polish family. I'm just saying it with all my regret. But it is also true that countering this phenomenon has been progressing for at least 10 years. It slowed down, as I said in my previous speeches, significantly slowed down. I'll tell Senator Jackowski, whose intelligence I value very much, but whose views I completely disagree with: this is a skillful, very thoughtful way to shift the discussion about violence, to any form of abuse of one man over another, especially when it's happening at home, which should be our asylum, where we rest, where we bring our concerns, to solve them together, and where we enjoy together... This is a disagreement with violence. This is an acceptance of humanity, a deeply Christian approach to the matter. And you can't turn this debate into a debate about adoption by gay couples, which is exactly what you did. That's not what we're talking about, Senator. You know that very well. And you want to shift the accents of this debate to a completely different one, much more convenient for your formation. I don't agree with that. We are talking about anti-violence behaviors and behaviors in which we will have our disagreement, also in our minds and in our mentality. You can't agree to that. You can't wash dirt in your own house because it's not true that we're helping anyone. And although I do not agree with such a strong approach to the matter that only the Church is guilty of this kind of preserved violence or of allowing it to take place quietly, presented by your marshal, I cannot agree with your statement at all. The discord of violence must unite us, this discord of violence is a manifestation of our humanity and our friendly approach to another human being. It's not like you're doing this differently, and if you're using a different kind of argument, it's for a completely different purpose than taking sides on the part of the perpetrators of violence, not on the side of the victims. Any approach to this case, even extreme, but still based on the assumption that no one is to be harmed, must be ours... Well, that's the message of this discussion, of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u314	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u315	Thank you very much. I would like to say that, for a reason, you, Marshal Staneck, have asked twice the ladies who came here, ladies of this team, about the topic of today's debate. Well, I'll read it. I would remind you that we were to receive information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. We're not talking about the bill, we're talking about how we implement these provisions, what else we're going to do, and what we've already done, in a word, where we stand. We also wanted some explanations. Because there is information in public space about the declaration of this convention, we wanted to know very much whether it was true or not. Unfortunately, today we did not really get this information. Once again, a person came here who couldn't tell us whether it was gonna be like this or not. We wanted to know something, but I'm sorry to say that this information didn't work out so well for us, that's listening. It didn't help much. My second point concerns Senator Jackowski's statement. You referred to what you said from the Ombudsman's Office... The rights of the child. Please? From the Office of the Ombudsman of Children's Rights. No, from the Ombudsman's office. That's what I'm saying. I'm sorry. I respectfully refer to you, but today we're not talking about the rights of the child, we're talking about violence in the family. And as for what you've been reading to us for 10 minutes, I don't know if it was a judgment or a newspaper article. That was it, Mr. Senator, embarrassing. All we had to do was discuss it in two sentences, instead of reading the entire paragraphs of a foreign text here. I would like to ask you not to abuse the convention of our discussions, but to stick to the subject. We don't talk about it at all, we don't talk about gender, relationships, gender, etc. We're talking about violence against women right now, as it says here. So that I would very much ask, Mr. Senator, to stick to the subject and not to throw in any ideological content that unnecessarily blurs the subject we're about to discuss. And there was someone there who defended you in his speech. I think Marshal Kaminski said you're sure you're against violence and so on. But I haven't heard a word from you condemning violence in the family. I've only heard ideological tirades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u316	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u317	First of all, I'll answer Senator Zdrojewska. I was quoting my own text, which was created... I can give you the copyright note, I have the copyright for this text. Since I'm dealing with this issue, I wrote this text on the basis of the NSA material, so please don't impute me that it was an alien text. One should first ask where this text came from and then give an opinion. Secondly, I call you Marshal Kaminski. I don't think you know that the first country in which an abortion was introduced in 1920 was the Soviet Union. Such things a politician should know if he is discussing this. Thirdly, as far as this whole discussion is concerned, it was your marshal who started it with an attack on the Catholic Church. So far, there's been no discussion at all about this, so please don't impute me, Senator, that I'm the one who threw the subject because it's convenient for me. As a believer, I felt affected by these schematic propaganda calculators from the brochures by Jemeljan Jarosławski. It was such an ideology of atheism in the Soviet Union, just in Stalin's times, Mr. Marshal Kaminski, that you should read about it if you wish to speak about it, which put such scales into people's minds that the Church or Christianity is the source of the oppression of man, and only Marxist ideology, Leninovsky liberates man from the chains of oppression. It's a classic. So the discussion on this subject takes much longer and please refer to it. Finally, it's a matter of data. I was quoting data published on the Feminoteka website, so not some right-wing, PiS portal. This is the official feminist website. And I'll read it again. About the violence... Of course, I am absolutely opposed to violence against women. I respect women, I'm the father of six daughters, and for 31 years I've been married to a wife who loves me, who I love too. Therefore, please do not impudent me that I am a supporter of violence in the family. And by the way, if you read the statistics... Mr. Marshal Kaminski, you said that the Church is forcing women to stay with oppressive husbands. If you read the statistics, you would know that the greatest domestic violence in the family or domestic violence occurs in informal relationships, just read the statistics on this subject. I absolutely do not deny it, but there is a need to maintain some honesty in this debate. I'm gonna go back to that violence again. The average result for the European Union according to studies carried out by the relevant agenda is 27.5 out of 100, which shows that the phenomenon is quite serious. The results of each Member State range from 22.1 in 100, which gives us the first place, i.e. the lowest level of this violence, to 44.2 in Bulgaria, where this indicator is highest .44.2 . Because we're not reporting. Yeah, that's typical. What Senator Kochan says is typical of left-wing ideologies. If the facts that are given do not match any thesis, the worse it is for the facts. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, 'cause they don't fit in with some ideological theory you're preaching. Good. Don't argue with the jury. Just let me... Don't interrupt me when I'm at the voice. ...go to the end. You could've re-enlisted and argued with me. No, he can't now. I know, but I'm saying she could. Why? The list is closed, Senator. There was a motion to close and I closed the list. Senator, you didn't protest at the time. Am I entitled to 10 minutes plus 5 when I volunteered? No. No, because the list of speakers is closed. Okay. The list of speakers is now closed. At the request of Senator Zdrojewski... Good. I see. Thank you. So that these tests clearly show... Ad vocem you can. I'm booking an ad vocem too, Mr. Marshal. But so far, no one's... I haven't even finished this speech yet. Mr. Senator, why are you booking? Yes, sir. So I'm going back to the situation. I specifically recalled the results of these studies to show that, on the occasion of the rightfully raised, very serious problem of violence against women, he is trying to sneak in various ideological figures. There is a wealth of literature on this subject. He is trying to smuggle an ideology that is contrary to the approach that has been quite important in Poland for over a thousand years. And from this point of view, the speech of the Marshal of Moravian-Stanec convinced me I did not raise this issue at all, nor did I discuss it in the debate. What I heard was the answer to my question: yes, this convention is ideological. Proof of that. You can quote after the transcript It is said by the Marshal of Stanecka, who criticized the Catholic Church, that the cause of violence against women was the Catholic Church. Thesis is ridiculous because this violence also occurs in Africa, where Christianity was not. So just answer some questions and see if it's a prejudice or a grudge. Unfortunately, I am sorry about the anti-Catholic or anti-Christian debate, whether it is a substantive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u318	Thank you, Senator. Ad vocem Madam Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u319	Yeah, just a little bit. I'd like to apologize, because I may have misconstrued myself by accusing the senator that this is not your text. But you will admit that a large part of this text was the operative part of the judgment of the Administrative Court. And that's all I was referring to. So that I withdraw what I said, completely. But I'm not withdrawing, Senator, what I said about your today... I have to say, I don't recognize your senator today. This ideology is not necessary for this discussion at all. I'm worried and disgusted. However, I hope that we will work well together, as we have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u320	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] He was mentioned, yes, he was mentioned... It's me, so to speak, giving my ad vocem back to Mr. Senator Marshal Kaminski. But you can't do that. The senator was mentioned. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u321	I'm short. First of all, I'm talking to Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Not only did I not accuse you of being a violent believer, but I told you very clearly that I am convinced, knowing you for 30 years, that it is exactly the opposite. I said it out loud from the bleacher, and it's really me, and I don't abuse words like that, just humanly sorry, because you accused me of... While I was saying the exact opposite. That's right, I actually said that what the Church has to say to these victims... Any woman who asks a Catholic priest the question of whether she can leave her husband with whom she has a problem, whether she can end this marriage, from every Catholic priest, will receive an answer that she should not do so simply. Well, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u322	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Alexander Comfort, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u323	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I hope I'm heard... Yes, we can hear you. Go ahead. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Convention on Violence, so-called The Istanbul Convention, in my opinion, is such a brick of our presence in the family of democratic states. It is a convention developed by the Council of Europe and this is our connection, through multilateral agreements, with a democratic Europe. The attitude to this convention, so demonized by the extreme right, extreme conservatives, is a certain prognosis of our attitude towards democratic Europe. I would like to say that even the Turks, so heavily attacked for their undemocratic approach at the moment to the citizens, the Turks, who are exceptionally From our point of view and from the point of view of the issues we are talking about conservatively with regard to the issues we are discussing, they do not try to undermine this convention. There's no way... I do not understand this idea at all, that on the basis of this convention in any way undermine the functions of the family. And paradoxically, presenting legal issues in Poland, as it is normal, Senator Jackowski even proved that our legal order does not allow it in any way. I don't understand this awkwardness, but these voices of our colleagues in Law and Justice, this voice of the Vice Minister of Justice, who was with us at the committee meeting and was at the previous sitting, to some extent... Why are we talking about this? Mr. Vice Minister's voice, so to speak, followed very strongly... he even stated that this convention should be denounced. He said that directly to the Deputy Minister of Justice, in my opinion speaking on behalf of his entire community. I do not know whether all the Law and Justice, or only on behalf of the party led by Minister Ziobro, but I have not heard of resistance being resisted. What's more, listening today and listening yesterday because it all has to be combined. Senator Komorowski, whose analysis and legal mind I respect very much, as well as listening to the senator, whom I respect for his honest work, or Senator Czerwinski... I brought all this together. These are the voices that somehow take out another bay from the legal bridge linking us to Western democracy and the European Union. Very often, in the media space, prominent politicians of Law and Justice are getting away with it, declaring that they are accusing us of somehow trying to get us out of the European Union, that is bullshit, that is all wrong. But if we're listening to a debate like today, these sentences... For me, this is absolutely another proof that it is exactly the opposite, that our presence, our strength and being in the family of European countries is more here I am talking about the Council of Europe, which in some way I will always represent in Poland, I am talking about human rights, I am talking about the approach to democracy. And every one of those voices I've heard gives me a lot of concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u324	Thank you, Senator. Ad vocem Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Because his name was mentioned. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Push it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u325	Oh, it's okay. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't take part in this discussion so I wouldn't prolong it, and yet I got a little caught up. I would just like to say one thing: we are not moving away from the European Union, and especially from its roots and ideal original assumptions. It is the European Union itself that goes away from these roots, we are still where the original Europe was. Let us remember that the founders of the European Union were based on the Decalogue, on this foundation, on the Christian backbone. Paradoxically, it may be that we will be pointed out as those who have preserved these original values in the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u326	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Komorowski also ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to say that it's kind of turning the cat's tail a little bit. I had no intention of taking part in the discussion either, but after the speech of Marshal Stanecka I cannot speak as a Catholic, not speak when, I believe, my feelings and many Poles are offended. As I said in my speech, I am convinced that all those who are in the Senate are against violence against women, domestic violence, violence against rape, armed robbery, murders, against many different crimes that are atoning and in the family, and in man. But we cannot say that we want to leave the European Union and so on. Like Senator Jackowski said, none of us here touched any thread of the Catholic Church. It's your marshal alone. I don't know why. We merely expressed our opinion, Senator Jackowski may be a little more profound about the whole situation, we expressed our opinion that this cannot be bad, so to speak, directed towards the Catholic Church. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u328	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Rafał the locksmith made his speech to the record. The discussion is closed. Would your Secretary of State, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Iwona Michalek, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? One sentence, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u329	I just wish... If there's one sentence, it's there, and if there's more, it's here. One sentence. I would just like to say for the third time that there are currently no work in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy concerning the termination of the Convention. I've said it twice, I've said it for the third time, because it sounded like one of your senators' speeches again. And thank you, all parties, all senators for the discussion. All your proposals and comments will be taken into account in the development of new legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u330	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: information from the Minister of Interior and Administration on arrests made by the police during demonstrations during the pandemic period with particular regard to detentions on 16 May, including the arrest of Senator Jack Bury. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Maciej Wąsik. Mr. Senator, please take the floor and present the information. Come on in. Minister. Oh, excuse me, Minister. I'd like to invite the Minister. But I invite you here, to the speaker so that everyone can see you so we can all see each other face to face.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u331	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Minister for the Interior and the Administration of the High House information on police activities concerning the events that occurred during the state of the epidemic announced by the government in connection with the outbreak of Coronavirus. Well, let's go from the beginning. The issue of conventions is governed in Poland by the Law of 24 July 2015 on Assembly Law, where we have 2 types of assembly: conventions subject to registration or consent procedure and so-called. spontaneous gatherings, which take place in connection with sudden and unpredictable public events, which would not be intentional or insignificant in terms of public debate, are said by the rules. With regard to spontaneous assemblies, the Act does not require notification or consent. I would like to point out that on 16 May 2020. This was particularly the case with the Council of Ministers Regulation of 16 May on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions in relation to the outbreak. This regulation entered on the date of publication, i.e. 16 May, and pursuant to §13 paragraph. Point 1 of that Regulation was prohibited in the territory of the Republic of Poland from organising assembly, from organising any assembly. This provision reads: "The holding of assemblies within the meaning of Article shall be prohibited for appeal. 3 of the Law of 24 July 2015 on Assembly Law. It should be noted that reference is made to Article. 3 The Law on Assembly makes this prohibition applicable both to conventions subject to registration or requiring consent, and to spontaneous assemblies, that is to say, to any assembly. In view of the above, it was not possible to hold the meeting legally on 16 May 2020. I would just like to stress that the legal basis for this regulation was the Law establishing...excuse me, the Act of 5 December 2008 on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases in humans, specifically the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 4 of that law, which during the outbreak gives the possibility to introduce, by means of a regulation, a ban on events and gatherings. The government used this provision, this legal basis, to introduce such a provision. This entry was not introduced on 16 May, it was introduced earlier, but we do take exactly the same rules... Thus, on 16 May, the Regulation of 16 May was in force, but the day before that the Regulation was in force with the same provision. I would like to stress here that this was a solution for banning any public gatherings, it was applied not only in Poland, but actually throughout Europe during the pandemic period. Throughout the European Union, throughout the civilized world, such orders were in force. At the moment, this convention ban also applies, with the exception of assemblies of up to 150 people, in the context of defrosting, because realizing the importance of freedom of assembly from the point of view of civil liberties, the government is defrosting. But I would like to stress this with all my determination: in most EU countries, if not all, governments have introduced the same sharpenings in relation to the Coronavirus epidemic. We were no exception, Mr. Marshal, so that we made such sharpenings. I would like to emphasise one more thing, i.e. that the firmness of the services responsible for order and security was applied both to those who tried to organise a public assembly and to others who tried to gather. Surely the High Senate knows very well that the police prevented or dissolved the assembly, which was a pilgrimage to Jasna Góra, which was a pilgrimage trying to reach Częstochowa from Łowicz. And I would like to stress one thing here: we act with the same firmness in every case. It doesn't matter whether it's a pro-government demonstration or an anti-government demonstration, whether it's a Protestant or an anti-Church assembly. It was not possible to organize any public gatherings at that time, it was in the legal state. On 16 May an illegal assembly took place in Warsaw on Castle Square. In view of the prohibitions laid down in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions issued in connection with the outbreak of the outbreak, officers of the Police Command have carried out actions against persons who clearly pose a direct threat to human life and health. I'd like to tell you that it wasn't a hoax. I think there are doctors in the Senate who know exactly how the epidemic is spreading. The assembly bans, as I said, have been introduced throughout Europe, following expert recommendations. This is one of the basic methods of combating the epidemic. It wasn't a politician's idea, it was something politicians brought into the law, but it was actually the recommendation of experts, epidemiologists, doctors who were in charge of advising the government. I know that in the Senate there is Minister Kraska, the Deputy Minister of Health, who has been very active in this work, and I think he could give a lot of information to the senators on this subject, as a doctor, as a person who deals with health care every day. But let's get back to that on May 16th. During the course of the operation, police officers called on people gathered in Castle Square to leave the assembly place. A warning message was also issued on the possibility of using the legally provided means of direct coercion and the necessity to follow the instructions of police officers. This is a standard procedure, which is repeatedly used by the police in such cases. It also called in people with immunity, and I would stress: those with immunity. As well as pregnant women and journalists to leave the scene of police action. Police communications in this area were clear. To the grouping people, police officers have repeatedly addressed communications and applied requests to comply with the law, prior to the possibility of using coercive measures, as I have already mentioned. Still, some protesters didn't respond to police calls. The protesters tried to break the police cordon, started pushing him and attacking intervening police officers. Therefore, the police have used direct coercion measures by applying the provisions of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Police Act giving the possibility to arrest persons who pose a risk of life or health. That's what the police did. During such activities, some people tried to interfere with police intervention. I am sorry to say that there are also parliamentarians among these people, including Senator Jacek Bury. From the information I have from the police officers, it appears that the senator was trying to prevent the arrest under Art. 15 people who did not comply with calls to behave properly, to behave legally, and tried to prevent police officers from placing them in mobile detention points, that is, police cars. At some point, there was a situation where Senator Jacek Bury was standing in his car and one of the police officers, not realizing that he was dealing with a person who had immunity, used physical strength, so he pushed the senator into the car. Upon receipt of information that this is the person who holds immunity, the officers have waived further action against the Senator mentioned. They informed the MP that he had not been detained and could leave the vehicle and that the officers would keep him safe. The senator didn't take this proposal and refused to leave the service vehicle until he had a conversation with the police commander. It should be stressed that a parliamentarians may have left the service vehicle at any time. At all times, he had access to water, did not complain of any ailments, despite the help offered, he did not require medical care. About an hour. 6:30 p.m. Senator Jacek Bury voluntarily exited the mobile detention facility. About 1,000 500 people participated in this illegal grouping in the area of the Castle Square, of which the police estimated that about 500 people were active participants in the assembly. Other people are journalists, event observers, bystanders. As a result of police action in connection with these protests, 386 people were detained, including 5 persons under Article. 244 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as suspected persons for offences under Article. 222 Criminal Code A violation of the integrity of the civil servants, art. 226 - insulting officers, and art. 288 • destruction of property. Yes, five people were arrested on suspicion of committing these crimes, while the other 381 were arrested on the basis of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Police Act. Direct coercion measures have been applied to 170 persons in accordance with the law on direct coercion and firearms. Depending on the situation, physical strength or handcuffs were used. A manual gas pitcher was used once. The use of direct coercion measures was due to non-compliance with orders given and aggressive behaviour of participants in an illegal assembly, as well as to interference with police officers in the performance of their activities, in intervention. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to stress that the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration assessed the police activities that day In addition to that day, some activities took place also a week earlier. . and considered that police activities were lawful, professional and appropriate to the situation. Unfortunately, some people, including parliamentarians, made it difficult for police officers to act against those detained under Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Police Act and carried out at mobile detention points. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say this: no politician, no senator, no Member, and not even a minister, has the authority to give orders to a police officer when he intervenes. No politician, senator, Member or Minister has the right to threaten a police officer in connection with his interventions or to say that the police officer is no longer on duty. Moreover, no politician, whether from government camp or opposition camp, has the right to call a police car a bitch. 'Cause if a police car is a bitch, who's a policeman? A dog? This is a hat, ladies and gentlemen. I'll admit I'm against such a pub language and I got a little embarrassed when we talked about this situation with the police management, and then I heard media coverage about it. I'll admit, as a parliamentarians and a colleague of Senator Bure's, I was so embarrassed in human terms. I was ashamed of the fact that a parliamentarians, a representative of the nation, called a police car a bitch, and that in an epidemic situation, when assemblies are banned, when there is no doubt about the illegalness of this assembly, when police officers, mostly young people, intervene as they have been taught in schools for many years, as they have been taught by their superiors, and they are hindered by this intervention by a parliamentarian. It's bothering you, Mr. Senator. This is my assessment of the situation, forgive me, you probably have a different assessment. And I'm ashamed that I'm a parliamentarian too. Because it seems to me that the Act on the performance of the mandate of a Member and a Senator is talking about other instruments that are to perform the tasks, not to disturb a police officer during the intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, this pub language is the language of heytu towards policemen. And I'm against it, too. And I believe, Senator, that you should apologize to the police for what happened on May 16th. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Especially since you did a press conference the day after, and you said at this conference, Forgive me, I wrote it down. I wouldn't want to make a mistake. That this power has done things that haven't happened since World War II. This power has done things that haven't happened since World War II. Mr. Senator, you're a member of the Science, Education and Sport Committee. Science and education. Well, you need to know the history of Poland. That statement insults those police officers who, in fact, at the moment they realized that you were a senator, immediately withdrew from the actions they took, because immunity protects you from certain activities. This offends me, Senator, and it also offends me in a way, and I think that many people are sitting in this House. Because Polish history after World War II remembers the repression of Stalin's time, 100,000 people murdered at that time, remembers 1956 and Poznań, remembers 1968 and sticking students, remembers the repressions of 1968 and forcing people to leave Poland, remembers 1970 I don't want to remind you what the independence marches looked like a few years ago, and I don't want to talk about it anymore because it's a whole different scale. But the statement that this authority has done things that haven't happened since World War II is a serious offense, especially for those police officers who, according to their oath, legally held order in Poland for the health of all citizens. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u332	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister's questions? A few senators have already called in. As the first Marshal, Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u333	Minister, I don't want to talk back to you, there are questions, I'd rather talk to you first... I'm so sorry, Mr. Marshal. But it's okay... No... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Can I have a glass of water? But of course, there's definitely water in there, Mr. Marshal will supply you. There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's an honor, Mr. Marshal. It's no honor... Thank you very much. Just water. Thirsty to drink. I've been gone a long time, Mr. Marshal, in the Senate, and I forgot... Okay, Minister... This procedure is slightly different from the Seym. Yeah, yeah. Minister, the basic question. Of course, I remember all these dates exactly. But the question is different. I guess that's why you were asked for this information that the spokesperson of the Capital Police Command gave a version that the senator had basically entered the police car himself, that the force had not been used against him, that he had entered and refused to leave himself, and in fact at the beginning, until he was in the police car anyway, it was not known that he was a senator. Well, that's the first thing. Was there any force against the senator? This is the most important thing to me. You also said that the senator should apologize to the police, not to the police. Well, I hope we can figure out who should be apologizing. Therefore, I have a motion to present the film from your arrest.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u334	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Please, I'm in charge, as I understand it, of a short... And then I'll have more questions for you. ...technical interruption, but literally, as I understand it, a few seconds so that we can get acquainted with the film material, which, I understand, is part of the Marshal's question. Yeah, it's part of the question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just tilt it? Yes. Very good. Unfortunately, you can, just like I do. I've done it, I've done it, I've done it, Wrong. ...mistake and pour next to... [[Movie projection]] I'm sorry, but we don't see it. Yeah, we can't see. Oh, there it is now. Oh, in the back, right? Yeah, here it is. Okay. Then I'll have another... [[Movie projection]] As I understand it, is this the movie or... Mr. Marshal... Yes? Is there another movie? There's a movie... You're welcome. ...which shows basically nervousness... [[Movie projection]] Something amazing. As I understand it, Mr. Marshal, these are all the materials you wanted to show, and as I understand it... Yes? ...Mr. Marshal... Oh, yeah, yeah. ...are you continuing to ask questions? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u335	Well, I'm asking you whether the police have used force against Senator Bury or not. I also watched one more video where... Sir... Yes? Excuse me, Minister, but... ...there was still... Mr. Marshal isn't finished yet. Yes, yes, Lord... Oh, I'm sorry. I don't know if we've been watching... I don't know if the Minister was watching this, but I was also watching a video where you can see Senator Bury walking with his I.D. He's showing it. ...shows I.D., gets professionally cut, I have to say, it was professionally done. His legs get cut off and he falls in, well, they help him a little bit, into a police car. Therefore, again: was the force used against the senator or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u336	Sir, I said what I said. I think one of the cops actually used force against the senator with one hand, not knowing he was a senator. I believe that. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: what was the senator doing there? I'll tell you, Mr. Marshal: that's what the senator prevented the police from doing what they were obliged to do. I would also like to reassure your marshal that the police have all the materials, both the ones I saw in the Senate Hall and the others... There are recordings of different types that appeared on the Internet, there are also recordings from cameras of different police officers, where there is a recorded sound. These materials have been transferred to the prosecution to assess by the prosecution whether there has been a breach of law in one or another, Mr. Marshal, in the other direction. Because there were words. Based on these films, we can't tell who said it. But, Mr Marshal, no one, whether it's a politician or a Member or a Senator or any other participant in the demonstration... I don't know who did it. And I hope you didn't use that word, Senator. I would very much like it not to be the senator's words. Anyway, somebody fired a police officer for pushing a senator in theory pushing a senator in... Someone said you didn't work tomorrow. Let's weigh these situations on two scales. On the one hand, the Senator with immunity... I'm not saying it was you, Senator. The D.A.'s gonna check, see, determine whose words they were, and see if they were threats against a police officer. Perhaps it will turn out that we do not know who said it, because the situation was extremely dynamic. Please remember that, Mr. Marshal. However, I would like to stress with all determination that every policeman who understood or learned that he was dealing with the Senator of the Republic has resigned from any action. This awareness is extremely important. Mr. Marshal, you must admit that you must be aware of this. It was a dynamic situation. It's so easy to say, sitting there, examining yourself, but when you're a policeman, standing there, minding certain situations... As there are dynamics of certain situations, often aggression on the other hand, it is very difficult... Often decisions are made in a fraction of a second, in a fraction of a second. And I'm behind these cops because I know that these are often very difficult decisions that can be costly for either side. Because either he doesn't make that decision, and something bad can happen, or he will, and someone will later charge him with exceeding his authority. And I think that the senator should not do such things to police officers and should not use such comparisons that nothing like this has happened in Poland since World War II. We've seen these movies. Indeed, the situation was dynamic. There are emotions in the demonstrations. Which one of you wasn't at the demonstration? Probably all of us at different times. Mr. Marshal, you too. You know how emotional this is, how dynamic this is, don't you? Often these emotions are bad advisors. But this...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u337	Senator, please don't interrupt the Minister. We can all ask questions, speak in the discussion. Please don't disturb me. Mr. Minister, you're welcome to continue. Thank you. Thank you very much. Would Marshal Borusewicz like to ask you another question? Thank you, not yet. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, please. I'll just say the Minister can either stand or sit, so... We agreed... Yeah, we agreed it's on. I'm sorry. I meant well, as usual. Okay. You can lower the platform and put up a chair. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, no one's gonna do that to the minister... Chair. Because the Minister can't stay long for health reasons... We can get the minister a chair. I don't think that's a big problem. Looks like it's gonna be a pretty good debate. For a long time. You're provoking the minister, yes. Does the Minister feel comfortable? Extremely. That's great. In that case... May I? I invite Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u338	Thank you very much. Minister, the detention of the senator, as well as the Member who shows his legitimacy, is, of course, unlawful. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to Article. 105, later developed in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, parliamentary immunity is the protection of a parliamentarian. It can only be stopped when committing a crime, and only if it is necessary to ensure the proper course of the procedure. I would like to ask the Minister if there is any procedure in force in the police to train police officers to contact parliamentarians. And if it is, I think it is, I would very much ask the Minister to send such instructions in writing at my request, because it is not, I believe, a secret document. We should know at what level the training of police officers in relations with parliamentarians is at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u339	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u340	Mr. Senator, let me say this: of course we will answer this question in writing, but I am a little surprised by this question. I am really surprised because it seems to me that we, as parliamentarians, carry such a responsibility that we should generally be treated as citizens like everyone else. But we will answer that question in writing, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u341	Thank you, Minister. Please, sir, are you the senator... I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you just saw the video. We know the KSP message in which KSP claimed that the Senator had entered the squad car. I have a question about what you said today. I think you used the phrase, "His hand was placed on his back," "he was patted on his back," or you maintained the police position that the senator voluntarily walked into a police car." Second question: was the use of pepper spray for these people advisable and justified? Third. Have you seen the video of a woman being stopped under the radio three, where a police car drives up, a woman being forced into that police car and thrown in there is her bike? How do you assess this incident? That's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u343	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u344	I'd like to tell the senator that all the videos of this incident are being judged by the prosecutor on 16 May. We've seen two movies. I think you flashed me a senator for two seconds, maybe five seconds. I think there's more of these movies. We see a clipping of the event on them, but we have to evaluate the whole thing. I am convinced that the Police Capital Command has a better view of this situation than we do on the basis of these two films. I would like to stress that this event did not last for a few seconds, but it lasted for about a minute, a few dozen minutes, if not for hours. I think the police records will allow this assembly, this situation to be properly assessed by the prosecutor, and assess whether the communication was correct. That movie you were talking about before Three, I don't know. There's only one thing I know. The fact that any citizen who is requested by a police officer is obliged to provide these personalities. If he doesn't, you take the right steps towards him, usually at the police station, to determine these personalities. If someone doesn't even want to give a name, the police will intervene with that person. If this person considers that the intervention has been carried out incorrectly, it shall have at its disposal the relevant legal institutions. She may lodge a complaint, whether it's a complaint to the police or to the prosecutor, if she considers that measures have been taken against her which are inadequate to the situation. The use of coercive measures must be appropriate to the situation. And the use of gas was justified in this situation? In my opinion, on the basis of the information I have, all direct coercion measures on May 16 were used by the police in a legitimate manner. Okay. And throwing a bike in with that woman, and spraying the gas, according to the Minister, was it right? I didn't see that bike, all I heard was that the intervention against this woman was taken... I mean, I heard... I have knowledge that this intervention was taken because this woman persistently refused to give her personalities. I don't know what the reason for the intervention was. That's an additional question, at the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u345	Yes. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You were talking about history here, referring to various historical events. I am reminded of the words of Minister Błaszczak, who mentioned that the leadership functions of the police will not be performed, among others. ZOMO officers. Hence the question: is it true that the Deputy Commander for Organizational Prevention Branches in Warsaw is a former ZOMO officer? Do you have that knowledge?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u347	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u348	Mr. Senator, I don't have that kind of knowledge. If you wish, we will answer this question in writing. I just don't have that kind of knowledge. Now that's the second additional question, because there was a question about the deputy. Is it true that the commander... Mr. Marshal, I apologize most, but you cannot allow this discussion to be discussed in such a way that Senator Brejza will question me about personal matters in the police department. It's obvious that none of the ministers...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u349	Minister... Minister... ...doesn't have... Minister, don't be nervous... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I beg you, sir, and the senator, and the minister... Unfortunately, Minister, it is not up to you to assess the validity of the questions asked by the senators. They ask such questions as they want, within the minute they are entitled to, and according to the custom which in this House allows them to ask additional questions. They'll be able to ask these questions. Besides, as the Minister will soon see, anyone who wants to do so will be allowed to ask additional questions, including Senator Breyza. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u350	Question two. Then I'll also ask for a written reply. Minister, did the commander of the police prevention unit also have any connection to this formation in 1989? I understand that the Minister has already responded to this... Could you repeat that question? You're welcome, Senator. I ask you, Minister, something very important. Since in 2016 you yourself emphasized that the leadership function in the Police should not be performed by a person with a past, for example in the ZOMO, I ask: did the commander of the Warsaw Police Prevention Unit and the Deputy Commander for Organizational Affairs of the Warsaw Police have any relationship with the Motorized Branches of the Civic Militia? Well, the question is very simple. It is all the more legitimate, Minister, that on the side of the police prevention department in Warsaw unfortunately lacks the resumes of both masters.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u351	The senator has completed the questioning. Minister, do you wish to maintain your will to respond to this in writing, or do you have something to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u352	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask because I'm sure I have the right to ask such a question in the Senate space: what does this have to do with the information I was supposed to present here today? And I'll tell you this... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I answer the question. If you don't mind... You're welcome to allow the Minister... I was at many demonstrations in my life, being still a boy in the 1980s. I don't have a past like Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, who is a legend of the opposition. I've always looked at him with admiration and it's been an honor for me to be able to discuss with the marshal here at the Senate forum. But I participated in the demonstrations as a young boy, a high school boy in the 1980s, then in the demonstrations in the 1990s, when this situation... Well, in many, many demonstrations. I've seen a lot of different kinds of interventions, at the beginning of the militia, then the police. And I'm gonna say yes. In my assessment of the operation of the police at the time when the police were the responsibility of Minister Błaszczak, Minister Brudziński, Minister Witek, Marshal present or Minister Kaminski, they were as appropriate to the situation as they never were. And I remember the Independence Marches. I think you'll remember, too. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, when, in my opinion... I'll tell you what. I have generally always, while still on the opposition side, judged the police well as an institution that fulfils its basic tasks. I've also looked at this police force as the organizer of many conventions, I've collaborated with the cops of the capital headquarters, I've seen how much they care not to get involved in anything, just to make it clean and tidy. And many times in a time when I was in opposition, I had good experience with the police because the police behaved as they should. I also had worse situations when I saw the police on the Independence Marches. I think he's running with the minister... I mean, Minister Kaminski oversees the police, and I'm in the department of home affairs and administration. And we always talk to the police supervisor about how the police behavior is appropriate to the situation. I repeat: adequate to the situation. It is extremely, Ladies and Gentlemen, a hard and difficult service. You know, it's really easy being a parliamentarian and waving your ID, being an MEP or a senator. Anyway, from which side or from the opposition or government And say, I'm untouchable, try to move me. On the other side you have many young guys who have different life experiences. We want to eliminate these experiences from police pragmatism. You move someone upstairs, you fly. That's what they said here, too. Mr. Senator, that's what you said. I'm not saying it was you, but someone threw it and it's on the tape. The D.A.'s gonna assess it, he's gonna see it. These young people are to carry out the task of keeping order. We very much want coercive measures, when they need to be used, to be extremely appropriate to the situation. In my view, these coercive measures used on May 16 were adequate. It's easier to be a senator at a demonstration like this than a cop. You should know that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u353	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome. The next question you ask is Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u354	Thank you very much. Minister, in answer to Senator Rybicki's question, you said that you thought I agree with that. That a parliamentarian should be treated just as much as any ordinary citizen. Well, in that movie we saw, we were dealing with a situation... You said that it was an illegal assembly during the pandemic, and the police vigorously undertook to carry out their tasks to which they were entitled. At the same time, we have another event in public space on 10 April this year, when a group of parliamentarians of Law and Justice and not only appear in Piłsudski Square. And we can see that one of these people is wearing a mask, and President Kaczyński is quite energetically ordering this person to get rid of this mask. Of course, I would not urge the police to intervene as vigorously as in this case, but I would like to ask if any of the police or law enforcement services approached those people in Piłsudski Square on 10 April and told them that they were in too much trouble. Did someone tell them they should wear masks? Is there any reaction? Not necessarily the same as here, even the weaker one ever happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u355	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u356	Dear Senator, I appreciate your intelligence very much, but after this question, a little less than before. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, no, Minister... Excuse me, but... It's unnecessary, really. Minister, please don't make personal trips to the senators' intelligence. What's this? I'd really ask for that. In my opinion, those who were in Piłsudski Square on April 10 were doing business there. They paid tribute to the victims because it belonged to those who died in Smolensk, to those who died in the crash. Mr. Senator, please don't compare these situations. There's no point here in common, none at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u357	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u358	I stressed, Minister, that in certain aspects and in certain areas these situations differ, and in some areas they do not. I asked them if someone approached these people and politely pointed out that they were in too much trouble and that they were taking off the masks... Mr. Senator... ...on the orders of a private envoy. I asked if this was the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u359	Mr. Senator, as I said, the convention ban is still in place. You're from Poznan, Mr. Senator. Were you at Liberty Square on Sunday or Saturday? I wasn't. You weren't. But there were your friends, so don't be a hypocrite. But... Don't be a hypocrite. I didn't organize this demonstration, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u360	I understand you consider this an answer to the senator's question. Yes, Mr. Senator. Then I'd like to ask you a question, too, because I'm saved. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have devoted a great deal of your speech to the right polemics, but in my deepest conviction you have argued with the thesis that has not fallen. For you have demonstrated in a moving way that no decent participant in public life should compare the political system in present Poland with what happened in Poland after the Second World War. However, I do not understand Senator Bure's statement and I would like to ask you if you know a different case of this kind than that of the 1930s, when a large group of parliamentarians was detained, from those representing the Ukrainian minority to the Polish Socialist Party and leaders of the Polish Christian Party of Democracy, such as Wojciech Korfanty. However this has been done without immunities, as you know as a person who knows history, it was the only arrest and arrest of Members during the election campaign. I have the impression that since then no Polish parliamentarian has been detained by the police. As I understand it, this is what Senator Bure's words refer to. So I'm asking you if you don't think... We should reject the emotions that are on both sides, and there is no dispute about that. Don't you think that power, especially when accompanied by such rhetoric, should show... well, maybe not humility, but respect for freedom of speech, and in this particular case also respect for parliamentary immunity? That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u361	Mr. Marshal, the police have stopped parliamentarians many times, and not just the police. You know that as well as I do. It happened in different situations. No, no. Minister, we're talking here... I'm sorry, but... But we're talking about other situations. ...I know the situation whether it's from the 1990s, whether it's from the 2000s or later, when parliamentarians weren't treated best by the police, for example during the first month of Smolensk. Please remember the year 2011, 10 April in front of the Presidential Palace. I remember that very well because I was the organizer of this assembly. Dear Marshal, I'm sure you weren't there at the time, but I was and saw the police in the gutter, with clubs and shields. The cops dealt with half of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in a way, well, let's call it dynamic. Let's stick to that word dynamically. I'll tell you, I'm sure this situation that happened and was about Senator Bure, can't be compared in any way to the situations that you would like to compare to, that is, the situation that happened in 1930, to the situation that the police were running around here after Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u362	Well, that was a little earlier... But I understand your answer, Minister... A little earlier, yeah. ...but I find it inappropriate to compare arrests of parliamentarians after 1980, in cases of indecency or criminal offences, and in a situation where repression meets a citizen, a parliamentarians, as part of a civil protest. There's a difference, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u363	If I may argue with Mr. Marshal, I would be happy to argue because the citizens' protest must be primarily legal, with the law in force in Poland. And at that time no assembly was permitted, according to law. It was on the basis of a law passed in 2008, when Mr Donald Tusk was Prime Minister, and the Minister of Health was Ms Ewa Kopacz. This Act. Act on the prevention of epidemics, well, its name is a little bit longer. It was passed in 2008, Mr. Marshal. And I'm gonna stick with it because it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u364	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Jacek Bury another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u365	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, maybe before I ask a question, I will refer to what has already happened here, because there have been many half-truths and even often manipulations. And in what mode? In the mode that I want to come up with a question that... But that's what the debate's for. But please, Mr. Marshal, don't interrupt... Then follow the rules, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u366	I follow the rules. Mr. Marshal, the Minister has just begun to answer the question. Rhetorical questioning. I thought that anyone who asks a question has the right to construct them just as his knowledge of Polish and rhetorical skills allows him to do so. Then let's take it at all, Mr. Marshal, the Senate regulations, all the way to the end... Let's stop doing the Senate circus. The senator has the right to ask questions and asks this question in the manner he considers appropriate, Mr. Marshal. It's about time we did it by the book. You're welcome. Well, then, I... And it's gonna take a minute. You're welcome. One minute, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u367	Good. I'll be there in a minute. I'd like to ask the Minister... Because here some words are put in my mouth, that I was slowing down police officers. I didn't do it. Please read the materials carefully It's clear there that other people are saying it. I've never used words like that. I'm glad. And I respect the police work very much. I'm glad, Mr. Senator. And so did I when it comes to treating parliamentarians... They were for what Mr. Marshal Kaminski was talking about here, i.e. The point was that before the war parliamentarians were stopped and now so were they. Therefore, I have a question: have you really read all the materials, or have you only read the material? I'm asking because there were a lot of inaccuracies and accusations in your speech that I didn't do and I didn't say. I would like you to prepare yourself for this, and I would like you to come to this, and now to answer the question: have you been familiar with all the materials, as far as possible, or just the chosen ones?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u368	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u369	Mr. Senator, I've been familiar with the materials I've had available to me. All the materials are being evaluated by the D.A. and he's gonna get to know them. I couldn't read all the recordings for that reason. And there's really a lot of them. These are recording hours, actually from different people, including a lot of officers. Because cops often have different cameras, they mostly had cameras. All this has been collected and this situation is judged by the prosecutor. So I must reassure you that it will certainly be well and carefully assessed. So, as I understand it, you haven't read everyone... Sir... ...materials, and yet you put various claims into my mouth and at least assign me the firing of police officers. No, Mr. Senator... It's a shame you didn't get to know these materials... No, Mr. Senator, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u370	Thank you, Senator. Please, do you wish to refer to the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u371	Mr. Senator, I'm glad you said it didn't come out of your mouth. I'm really glad. Because I don't think it should come from any parliamentarians. And I didn't say it was dead. All I said was that the cops, when they were there at the time, heard those words. They've heard words like that. I don't know whose mouth it came from, and I said I don't know whose mouth it came from. I am glad that you say that it is not you, because I believe that none of the parliamentarians should ever say such words to police officers who are properly involved in intervention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u372	Thank you, Minister. Senator Aleksander Swed asks the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u373	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I just got here to the Warsaw Police's announcement. Let me quote: In connection with the active assault on officers, direct coercion in the form of physical force and gas was used. And then again: "In the course of our actions, no person with immunity has been apprehended. We stress that the senator entered the squad car and does not want to leave it. Therefore, the police car remained at Castle Square. Well, after these two videos, I'm not saying it's not true. But I have a question, Minister, I think it's half rhetorical, but I'm going to ask them: do the laws have to be respected? Should the Member, the Senator, also abide by the law? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Isn't the senator's participation in an illegal assembly during the Cortipinus pandemic and disturbing officers, so to put it mildly, but a violation to a certain extent of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u374	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I believe that we are committed to upholding the law just like any other citizen, but we, as parliamentarians, in particular. We know what public opinion assessments are about Parliament, we know how many different situations there were, when different parliamentarians from all political groups thought that they were allowed more and stopped on double gas. And I also believe that, in this situation, if the senator thought the police were interfering incorrectly, he could intervene under the procedure laid down by the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. I believe that the presence of the senator at this point may have been regarded as interfering with policemen's action at this time. But I'm not gonna judge, I'm gonna judge somebody else. And I hope it's done fairly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u376	Thank you, Minister. Do you have another question for the senator? No. Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u377	I don't know if you're watching the situation in the United States after one of the police interventions. I am not saying, of course, that today we are talking about this situation. This is the situation we had in Wroclaw with regard to Igor Stachowiak. But what's most important to me is what you said at some point about the adequacy of police action. This is very important to me, because nothing will prevent the police from responding more than inadequately to the various tasks they perform. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was talking about cutting. We've been watching a film where we've dealt with the obvious use of force against the senator. I'd like the senator to stand up for a moment. For us, of course, it's great, but it's not Dennis Rodman or Mike Tyson, who needs to be pushed, cut his legs, stuffed into his car, and at the same time said, "No, he came in himself, walked in himself, and then he didn't want to go out." Mr. Marshal... I want to say two things. I share the view of the adequacy and necessity of the superiors' proper response to police action, otherwise these police officers will be harmed by their own superiors. I would like to point out this by asking the Minister again: was this intervention appropriate to the situation? Yes. And was it really possible to interpret this situation as disturbing those strong, young, capable, I do not deny, boys in activities that were associated with this assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u378	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u379	Senator, I'll tell you what, I'll repeat what I said. In our view, in the assessment of the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, police actions were correct, lawful, adequate. And I would like to quote one more provision of the Police Act, Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3: Police officers are obliged to respect human dignity and respect and protect human rights in the course of their duties. And in my opinion, this has been fulfilled. It's been fulfilled. I'd like to thank the cops for their hard work, especially during the period of coronavirus, because they had a lot of work to do. And suddenly there were situations when someone really tried to heat up this atmosphere, to make a riot. They acted well, appropriately, praise them for it. Glory be to them, really, and they don't deserve to be brought to the camera later and told what never happened, that there hasn't been a situation like this since the war... Mr. Senator, you know very well that those were the inappropriate words. The police's actions were adequate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u380	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u381	Just don't give the senators the impression that we don't respect police work or that we use large quantifiers. We're dealing with a particular case, a specific situation, exactly like this. Therefore, we appreciate police work during the pandemic, we appreciate efforts, we appreciate the threat of life. Don't use that big quantifier. We're dealing with a particular case, a specific situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u382	Thank you, Senator. The next question you ask is Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u383	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you provoked me to ask a question by answering Senator Breyza's questions, when the senator asked if you were assessing the police's positive attitude both in the case of Senator Bure and in the case of a woman with a bicycle in front of the radio, in front of the Three. I'd like to ask you if this assessment you said a police officer had the right to identify a citizen means that a police officer can walk down the street and identify at any time, for no reason, a citizen. That's one question. I'll have another one in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u384	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u385	There is a concept of preventive legitimacy in Polish law. Cops do IDs in different situations when it doesn't end in any kind of sanction, but for some reason they want to know the personalities of a person who is... these reasons can be very different.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u386	Thank you, sir... No, like I said, that was the first question, and I have another question... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u387	...in connection with the Minister's reply. I understand, Minister, that there must be a reason for a police officer to identify a person. I would like to ask what has changed in the rules and standards of police work, since in Katowice the police did not identify the organisers of happening hanging MEPs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u388	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u389	I mean... This question, of course, is far from the subject of this discussion, but I think there was even prosecutorial proceedings there, so the police had to determine... But the organizers weren't identified... Senator, if you ask me, I'll check it out, and I'm sure we'll answer if you're interested, but I think there was even a prosecutor's case, so... It's still going on. For the purposes of the proceedings, these personalities had to be established. I will therefore ask you to answer in writing why the police did not identify the organizers at the time. Of course, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u390	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jolanta Hibner in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u391	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: should an officer requesting my personal data reply to my request by the same means by name, rank, function? Is that mandatory? Isn't there... Officers are anonymous at the moment. Very often we meet two officers on the street, who are anonymous, have no names or names. We don't know who it is, it could be somebody impersonating officers. This is the first case. The second thing I'd like to bring up here... On behalf of the Żoliborzans, I would like to ask if the officers guarding a certain headquarters on Mickiewicz Street, who stop and license people staying on this property... Is this the result of some regulation, or has a special order been given? These officers are also without proper names, they don't want to introduce themselves, they don't want to tell you why they're stopping people, they ask why you're here, why you're doing... Mickiewicz Street is a public street, it's a public street, and there's a lot of people living next to it. To be honest, I am very concerned about the very, very large, increased police traffic at this headquarters, the private seat of a person. Watching that, God forbid, on one side or the other, no one stands up, writing down people who were standing near... When a reporter looks at it, it's also written down. So I'd like to know if there's an extraordinary place in there that's extremely protected. It's us, as a violiboran, that's very disturbing. I also live in Żoliborz and other people live in Żoliborz, quite significant, and we feel very worried because nobody is watching us. Then I'd ask you to keep an eye on the place where I live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u392	Thank you very much, Senator. However, I would like to remind you that the item in which we are now sitting is a point specifically concerning the government's information on the detention of Senator Bure. Any analogy that comes to the mouth in connection with this situation can be expressed in the debate that we are about to move on to. Now, as I would like to stress, there is a stage of questions to the Minister and they should be about the scope within which the Minister appeared here. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u393	That's the only way I'm gonna answer it. Mrs. Senator, generally Poles, seeing police patrols around their place of residence, feel safe and not alarmed. So I don't really understand why the senator is concerned. I don't think you have anything to worry about from the cops. In answer to the first part of your question, I would like to say that, in accordance with the relevant regulation, a policeman who undertakes the duties of exercising his/her authority shall give his/her degree and his/her name in such a way as to enable him/her to record these data, as well as the reason for his/her professional activities, and, at the request of the person to whom he/she is acting, shall also state the legal basis for taking this action.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u394	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask the question in the remote system of Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. The Lord has informed us all that the case is being investigated by the D.A.'s office. I have a question: did an official complaint from Senator Jack Bury affect police operations, e.g. to the Bureau of Internal Affairs of the Police? If so, the question is: is there any conduct by the BSW? I also have a general question. There's been a little debate here about the operation of the police. Does the police or the Ministry of the Interior have any information, any knowledge of the police's work towards those who later found out they were parliamentarians? If so, how many such interventions have there been since the beginning of the term of office? And the question is, are there any other complaints from parliamentarians about the policemen's actions against them?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u396	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! To be honest, I don't know if Senator Bure's complaint has been filed, but I'm sure we can find that out right here. I'm not the one who can answer that question. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, I'm not exactly prepared. We would be happy to answer that question in writing to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u398	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary. Ah, room 217. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u399	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. But, Minister, I think you're defending a little bit of a lost cause. That's why I'm asking. Well, we need to come to some conclusion, and we need the Minister to express his position, because if we're considering... The case was about the senator. As you know, the senator is not only entitled to immunity, he is also entitled to immunity. If Senator Bury has been detained, according to the Minister Well, you might think so, if that stop was correct. In the act of red-handedness, he interfered in the performance of his actions, as the Minister was gracious to say... You can stop the senator in the act, and when he is stopped, you should immediately notify the marshal. So my first question is, was the Senate Marshal immediately notified of this by the police officers who arrested your senator? The senator should also be released at the request of the marshal, who may make such a request to the police. Is that what happened? 'Cause it doesn't look like the arrest was right or the release wasn't right. So what is the interpretation of the Minister's interpretation of this situation? Was the arrest correct? That would be my first question. And was the release correct? 'Cause here, the cops seem to want to fire your senator after he's stopped, ordering him to leave or forcing him to leave the police car. So that's my first question. The second one will be a little rhetorical, but I'll ask it too. It's wrong that there's just no such confession that there was a mistake. We all respect police work, we know he's under stress. And mistakes just happen, just like in every profession. Well, then I'll ask that question. Can you push a police officer, for example. Is it that she's a civilian? Let's just say he's legit in front of someone who's facing him, but someone who's standing in the back doesn't see that ID, and he's not sure he's a cop. According to the minister, can a police officer be pushed? And is this going to be a similar situation, like with the senator, that nothing happened? Well, I know it's a rhetorical question, but I'd like to point out some confusion about the problem. The point is to try to explain it in a human way, to say that a mistake has been made, to apologize, and everything would be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u400	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I don't think you can push anybody on the street. I'm sure it's the same as most of us or everyone else in this room. But please bear in mind that the police can use direct coercion in certain situations, in accordance with the law. And one such means of coercion is the use of physical force. I'd like to say that according to the information I received from the police And I agree with them. Mr. Senator has not been detained. The senator has not been detained. All the actions that were being carried out against him were abandoned immediately after the police found out that he was a senator. That's how I can answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u402	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Senator Aleksander Pociej to ask a question in remote mode. He doesn't report... Excuse me, do we have contact with Senator Alexander Pociej? Dad, they're calling you! [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u403	Yes... Thank you very much. I have such a question as chair of the Committee on Human Rights of the Rule of Law and Petitions. 19 May I turned, among other things. to the Home Office to explain the whole thing. To this day, I have not received an answer and I would like to ask if the Minister has any knowledge when I can expect an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u404	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr President, I think as soon as possible. I don't want to put in a specific term here, but right after we get back to the ministry, I think it's probably tomorrow morning. I'm gonna look into what's going on with this case, and I'm gonna make sure that the senator gets an answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u406	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u407	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will address the question asked earlier, Senator Zdrojewski, who said that we are talking about this particular case. Well, in my opinion, the information relates to all interventions during the pandemic period. In a moment, after this information, we have a political resolution to discuss that was proposed by the Senators of the Civic Coalition... I quote the passage: the police, with all severity and even brutality, have broken in recent weeks the peaceful protests of opposition to the government, especially the demonstrations of the strike of entrepreneurs. Minister, I have a question. Here we have an evaluation of the work of the entire police force. The law must be respected. That's what I'm asking again. Are we dealing with peaceful protests of the opposition, or are we dealing with illegal assemblies? Let's remember that we have time for the Coronavirus pandemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u408	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I don't think the Senate will accept such a text of the resolution, because it would be untrue... I think... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...it's some kind of misunderstanding that's... You'll be surprised. It is clear that, during the pandemic period, provisions are in force in accordance with the relevant legislation which does not allow demonstrations for health reasons. Not only in Poland, but also in Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK and many other European countries. It is obvious that the organisation of gatherings during this period was simply dangerous to the health of citizens. And there is still this ban, except for the gatherings of up to 150 people. Of course, this is not about spontaneous gatherings, which are still not allowed. As far as I know, it is the Polish citizens who are able to use the law and even the City Hall of Warsaw records these conventions. We're talking about the May 16 demonstration... Even the Warsaw Capital City Office, which keeps a register of conventions, is led by the president of the Warsaw Capital City Mr. Trzaskowski He did not enter these conventions because he could not enter them because it was contrary to the provisions of the law in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u410	Thank you, Minister. He informs the senators that the last question written down to the Minister is Senator Mariusz Gromko. Sorry, I'll write it down right away. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'd like to ask Senator Mariusz Gromka's question from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, today we are discussing the events of May 16th. Was the presence of other parliamentarians found at this assembly, and were there complaints of police intervention led by them, or was the case of an intervention against Senator Jack Bury really a single unfortunate incident connected with the fact that the police officer did not recognize the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u412	Thank you, Senator, for asking the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I think most of you have seen these materials preparing for this debate. It was registered on those materials that I saw, Mrs Jachira, who, in my opinion, wanted some kind of intervention to be made against her, so that it could be a bit of a martyrdom... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is my assessment, Senator. That's my grade. I answer that there were other parliamentarians who behaved hysterically in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u414	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, the question is very simple. The old Roman rule says that the wisher is not harmed. Are you the senator? Maybe you've got the news or you've seen it. Was he forced to be in that place? Was it, would I call it, somehow blocked? Or, on the contrary, did he come to this place himself, appear during an illegal assembly? Could he have known that the assembly was illegal? And what happened in that bitch for two hours... Sorry, this isn't my... In the squad car, of course. That's what I said, because that's what it was called. What exactly did you use the Senator of this squad car for? Why wouldn't he leave for two hours?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u416	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u417	Mr. Senator, some senators are pointing out to me that I express my own opinion too often and... You must be the minister... I think there's a senator here who could answer that question. In my opinion, I wouldn't be the best person to answer that question. You're a senator who can tell the story. Just like you. I spoke and explained, the material gathered by the police from this incident was passed on, all the material, and the one collected by Internet users, the participants of this assembly and what the police registered. It's been passed on to the D.A.'s office for evaluation, without deciding, of course, whether anything happened here. But this situation aroused a lot of emotions. I don't think that's a question for me, and I'm not going to decide here to give my opinion, which, by some of you, is treated as insinuations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u418	Thank you very much, Minister. As I understand it, there are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to inform the Minister that, after the debate on this issue has been concluded, you will also have the opportunity to comment on it. ... I inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that the wish to speak on this item has been expressed by the deputy spokesperson listening to the debate... Question, Komorowski... Excuse me, sir, but Senator Komorowski wanted to ask you one more question remotely. The Minister will be able to answer from there. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u419	Minister, I would like to ask one more additional question, because here it was mentioned... On the next item of the agenda This is inextricably linked to the second reading of the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality before the law at the time of the epidemic. And there's this one sentence, and I'd like to ask the Minister to comment on that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u420	Mr. Senator, this project... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] At present, Mr. Senator... Just now... ...in the manifestation of the day... Just now, Mr. Senator... ...the police violated the senator's parliamentary immunity by forcing him into a police car... Senator, I'm sorry, you can't hear me... Just now in a rather violent way, even I would say, a little out of culture, Mr. Senator and Marshal Pęk expressed a very violent objection to the fact that the questions are inadequate to the content of the deliberations. Well, your question addressed to the Minister, who is now leaving the Chamber, and therefore will not answer that question, concerns the assessment by the Minister of the resolution, which will be the subject of the Senate's deliberations in the next item. And this is a question which I must repeal in this connection, because it is not the role of the minister to evaluate resolutions which the Senate of the Republic will just debate. I would therefore ask you to take the floor listening to our deliberations by our deputy Ombudsman, Mr Stanisław Tracik, who expressed his wish to do so. Please take the floor. It's a three-piece. It's a three-piece. Excuse me, sir. I'm so sorry again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u421	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to speak here to address certain legal issues, not the facts that took place on 16 May, but... Well, I think it's time for a precise legal situation. Because it is indeed as the Minister put it, in accordance with §13 paragraph 13. Point 1 of the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 16 May was prohibited from organising the meetings referred to in Article. 3 convention rights. There are only a few legal issues which relate to this prohibition introduced under the provisions of the Regulation. First of all, this regulation did not introduce absolute bans on assembly, because in the subsequent provisions of that regulation there were conventions which could still be organised. Thus: public assemblies in connection with business activities, meetings in connection with business activities or in connection with professional activities. If we reach the content of the statutory authorisation contained in the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 (4) of the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases, there is no grounds for differentiation as regards the prohibition of assembly. This authorisation entitles you to prohibit the organisation of spectacles and other gatherings of the population. There is a question of how these authorisations should be read, but I would point out that when it comes to the regulation itself, for example. those meetings or meetings which are organised in the course of the performance of their duties shall not be protected under Article at all. 57 constitutions. So, according to the constitution, they're not protected at all. However, they were allowed to be organised without quantitative restrictions, i.e. There could be an unlimited group of people. And conventions that serve to express their views have been completely banned. And now we need to determine whether the Polish constitution allows the introduction of a ban on assembly without an emergency. Does the constitution even allow interference with constitutional freedom or constitutional law to be possible without the introduction of a state of emergency? The general limit clause, which applies outside of exceptional circumstances, is set out in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. First of all, restrictions on individual rights and freedoms can only be introduced in the law. These restrictions must be without prejudice to the essence of constitutional freedom, which means in the opinion of the ombudsman, and such an assessment has been presented in the positions which we have addressed to the appeal court in relation to the refusal to notify the assembly that the legislator is not able to interfere with the essence of constitutional law or constitutional freedom without the introduction of a state of emergency. In emergency states, of course, this is possible. And the Ombudsman's view raises serious doubts that the lowest normative act in the hierarchy, which is the regulation, is de facto excluded from constitutional freedom. This is a fairly important legal problem. In my view, we will be dealing with the situation that some persons, even in connection with detentions or other measures taken under the provisions of these Regulations, will seek to review the legality of these acts of application before courts and the courts are not bound by the provisions of the Regulation at all, so they have the possibility to carry out an indirect review of the legality of that act. And I would also like to address one point that was raised here in the discussion, i.e. the issue of legitimacy. Of course the police have the possibility of legiting, but for the purposes set out in the article. The 14th Police Act, not when a police officer thinks he's gonna write down the personal data of a person in his notebook. Where the detection objectives set out in Article are met. 14, especially in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Police Act, it's a police officer's right to take a citizen's ID. If these objectives are not met, legitimacy takes some form of non-legal harassment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u422	Thank you very much, Deputy Ombudsman. At the same time, I am informing the senators of the possibility of asking questions to the Ombudsman for no more than 1 minute in the current procedure. This, of course, applies to all senators sitting together today. The first question you ask is Senator Borusewicz, I understand. Isn't it? No, I... Then Senator Rafał Ambrozik... There you go... No, you're welcome. No... No? Excuse me, I understand, Mr. Marshal, that you would like to ask your spokesperson a question. Yes. You're welcome. I just gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u423	Thank you. Just a quick question. Mr. Ombudsman, can you tell us how many interventions have been addressed to the Ombudsman in connection with the limitation of the right to assembly under the health minister's regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u424	I am not able to precisely define the figures, but of course such requests to the Ombudsman are affected. The Ombudsman is also asked to impose administrative penalties for non-compliance with the prohibitions laid down in the Regulations, including the prohibition of assembly. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u425	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał Ambrozik from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u426	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, that's the question. Because you questioned the compatibility of the regulation with the law and the constitution. In that case, I have a question: did the Ombudsman refer to the Constitutional Court to assess the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution? That's the first question. And the second question is this absolute ban on assembly, because you said there was no such absolute ban on assembly. In view of the legal basis on which Mr Trzaskowski refused to allow the assembly, just in the case of this assembly, which in fact did not have a legal basis... On what grounds, then, did President Trzaskowski refuse to allow the assembly?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u427	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u428	To answer the senator's question, first of all, when it comes to these regulations, it is completely pointless for the Ombudsman to refer his applications to the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal adopted in 2016 provides that, at a time when the normative act expired, the Court cannot rule on and control the legality of that act in substance. These regulations of the Council of Ministers are valid, which is on average a week up to 10 days. Thus, when we applied to the Constitutional Court, it would already arise from the article. 59 (1) (a) 3 See point 3 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, the legal basis for the termination of proceedings in this case. That's one thing. Secondly, each court has the option of verifying the compatibility of the regulation with the Constitution, as set out in Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 of the Constitution, because the court is not bound by the provisions of the Regulation. In answer to the question concerning the capital city of Warsaw, I will say that there were reported organizations of assembly, but the capital city of Warsaw answered that it could not notify these conventions because of the ban on the organisation of the assemblies referred to in Article in the regulation. 3 convention rights. The persons concerned who submitted such requests subsequently submitted, in accordance with the procedure described in the law on assemblies, to the District Court in Warsaw, which rejected their appeals, claimed that the president of the capital city of Warsaw did not issue such a ban. The decision of the District Court was then contested. We have entered into proceedings twice to show that the information provided by the president of the capital city of Warsaw is in fact a refusal to register the assembly, because in our opinion not the form, but the content determines whether we are dealing with an administrative act, in this case with a decision. Well, the court did not share our view, but in the justifications of those judgments, where it stated that there was inaction of the authority, it also stated that there was significant doubt as to the compatibility of those prohibitions described in the regulations with the Article. 57 constitutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u429	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich's question, please. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u430	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Spokesman said in his speech something very important... Mr. Senator, would you please talk closer to the microphone? And now? That's better. Good. In his speech, the Ombudsman spoke about a very important issue, namely that the regulation cannot repeal the civil rights enshrined in the Constitution, as well as those enshrined in the Act which regulates these matters, namely the Assembly Act. At the same time, I would like you to tell us whether, in addition to the judgment of the Court of Appeal of 15 May this year, which has been ruled, as you said, i.e. that the regulation of the Council of Ministers cannot stand above the freedom of assembly enshrined in the Constitution, and that law which governs it, there were other statements of citizens to the court and whether other courts also ruled in the thoughts of that judgment. This is an extremely important issue because citizens have the right to exercise their powers in the courts, which result from the Constitution, and which have been suspended in an illegal manner by the regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u431	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u432	I know only two such orders of the Court of Appeal in Warsaw. Well, the thing is happening here and now, so obviously I think it's too early to talk about the formation of the judicial line. These are two judgments in which the court did not, in fact, make a substantive statement, but expressed doubts in the justifications of its decision. as to whether these prohibitions are constitutionally compatible. But, of course, I think that over time, there will be more judgments and speeches, so we can talk about some emerging judicial line.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u433	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is... actually, there are two questions to which I was provoked by your position just now expressed here. Indeed, it is the fact that art. 31 of the Constitution in paragraph 1. 3 says that restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the law. Here we are dealing with as if two opposing rights: on the one hand there is a right certainly political, or right to assembly, and on the other hand there is the right to life and health protection. In this particular aspect, they are opposite. But we have a clue, i.e. Article 2 233 of the Constitution, which states that a law defining the scope of restrictions on freedom, human rights and the citizen during martial law and exceptional law, is in the mouth. 1, and in a natural disaster, that's in the mouth. 3, must not restrict freedom and rights And among these freedoms and rights, which the Emergency Act also understood as a similar law, i.e. a state, I would call it, an epidemic threat... The question is, is this the right to assembly? It's probably an art. 57... Yes, it is: Everyone is granted the freedom to organize and participate in peaceful assemblies. There is no right to assembly, it is as if it is not protected, that is, its reduction in the state of emergency... In a different state, maybe, but there's some way to prove it. ...A state of emergency. It's a matter of regulation. Sources of law, Art. 87: Sources of the generally applicable law of the Republic of Poland... And here they are listed, and at the end there are regulations. Which means we're bound by regulations, too. And now the question is, where did this regulation come from? From the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 4 of the Act, I would call it an epidemic: ban on the organisation of spectacles and other gatherings of the population. Do you not think that, if we really want to prove that a regulation cannot impose restrictions on assembly, although they, as I said, are not protected in the Constitution in the event of emergency states, we simply have to deny compliance with the Constitution of the Article. 46? 2008, it's been 12 years. Who said anything about it, asked a legal question, filed a complaint? Were there any judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal that touched this delegation to the possibility of banning or restricting assembly during the outbreak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u435	To answer the senator's question, I'll say Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 the constitution, which speaks of the state of the natural disaster, determines what rights and freedoms can be reduced in a natural disaster. And he doesn't mention freedom of assembly. What does that mean? This means that even in a natural disaster, assemblies cannot be disengaged, that is, they cannot enter the essence of freedom of assembly. A from the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 of the Constitution shows what rights and freedoms cannot be restricted in a state of war and exceptional status, which means that other rights and freedoms mentioned in the Constitution, including freedom of assembly, can be reduced into the essence of assembly. And only in such states does the constitution allow for a total ban on public gatherings. As for the second part of your question, the answer is simple. On this legal basis, no regulation has been issued before either by the Minister for Health or by the Council of Ministers, and this has therefore not been the subject of legal analysis at all and has not been discussed at all. If I were to express my own judgment, I would say that I believe that this legal authority should be interpreted in accordance with the Constitution. Please note that there is talk of spectacles and other gatherings of the population. Right? I would believe that these are assemblies which do not fall within the scope of the constitutional freedoms referred to in Article. 57. This would lead to the conclusion that such a statutory authorisation is in line with the constitutional standard. I would like to make it clear that religious freedom has, in fact, been restricted under this statutory mandate. Freedom of expression of the religion referred to in the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Constitution, in fact, was also excluded under this statutory mandate. This is really very dangerous in terms of protecting individual's rights and freedoms, when fundamental constitutional freedoms are excluded from the lowest in the hierarchical structure of normative acts by a regulation. After all, we can imagine that in a few years there will be a minister who will say: well, I will use it and limit the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual on this basis. And that is why I believe that this is indeed a situation from the point of view of the constitutional standards for the protection of the rights of a dangerous individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u436	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Komorowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u437	I have a question for your spokesperson... but the senator beat me to it because one of the questions was supposed to be about the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 4 of the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans... If that is the case, why did the Ombudsman not take any action earlier to find that the constitution was incompatible or the whole law, or that provision, or maybe a number of other provisions of that law at all? You answered in part, but it wasn't me to say it, it wasn't convincing. And the second question is, was it legal or illegal in the light of what you said earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u438	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u439	As to the first point, I can only answer this: I do not recall that earlier, on the basis of the epidemic law, any complaints were addressed to the Ombudsman, so it is difficult for this to be the subject of analysis, especially since we have a lot of other cases that we are dealing with. As for the second part, I'm sorry, but I forgot what the second part of the question was, if the senator could repeat...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u440	Mr. Senator, can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u441	Yes. In light of what you said earlier about the assembly, why the President of Warsaw did not register, etc., etc., do you believe that the assembly we are talking about at this point, at this particular point, was legal or illegal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u442	I will answer in this way: if I had to settle a case in which an administrative penalty was imposed on someone for failing to comply with this prohibition, I would consider that such a decision to impose an administrative penalty is not based on the applicable law, and if I were a judge, I would settle it in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u443	Thank you very much. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. You're welcome. O.R. 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u444	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, first of all, I would like to ask your Ombudsman why, today, when this pandemic is actually passing, we find out that the regulation that was issued in connection with the threat of life and health... You now, after such a long period of time, when this is no longer relevant, say that the regulation on this matter is kind of unconstitutional and should not be... Why didn't the Ombudsman react earlier when this decision was taken, or even earlier, to prevent it from being compatible... so that there wouldn't be any legal acts that were incompatible with the Constitution? And the second question I have is, do you not think that the constitution in this regard is to change, because it does not protect the health and life of citizens, because in a situation of danger of life and health due to an epidemiological threat, it allows for gatherings, although it is dangerous for people's health and life? I think it should be in this case, at least in this case, in other cases too, but this is... The basic human right is the right to life and health. And the constitution, unfortunately, does not protect this life in this situation. Don't you think the constitution should be changed in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u445	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u446	Thank you, senator, for these questions. First of all, I would like to say that the spokesperson consistently The first statement may be from the 20th of March, indicating irregularities related to the issuing of subsequent regulations and the limitation of different rights and freedoms by the use of those regulations. The first speech was certainly addressed to the Minister of Health at the end of March. We then referred several times to the President of the Council of Ministers, pointing out various aspects of violations of rights and freedoms, including. the prohibition of movement. Here we are dealing with a similar problem. Here we are still in breach of the statutory authorisation, because it was possible to determine the way of movement according to the authorisation, but no movement ban could be imposed. On the other hand, on the other hand, which the senator raised, I would like to point out that the Constitution allows to restrict the rights and freedoms of the individual also without introducing any of the conditions specified in the Constitution. However, this can only be done in the act and you cannot violate the essence of the restriction. If legislation were introduced, even under a statutory mandate, not a convention ban, but e.g. restricting the freedom of assembly and stating that the participants of this assembly must comply with some kind of sanitary rigor there was a great demonstration in Israel against the Prime Minister of Israel, but it would be compatible with the Constitution with the distance between the people involved. However, the introduction of a complete ban on assembly does not comply with constitutional standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u447	Thank you very much. Please, once again, Senator Marek Komorowski. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u448	Actually, about what I wanted to ask your spokesperson, you've already answered the question. Because I wanted to ask you if you think it would be necessary to adopt laws in order to limit the assembly. So how do you think it's possible to fight an epidemic that's spreading rapidly and effectively? Because the legislative process is long, the regulation gives authorisation... sorry, so-called. The epidemiology bill gives the authority to issue such a regulation, and you say we should adopt a convention ban law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u449	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u450	I am not saying that a convention ban law should be adopted because I believe that such a law, even if it were adopted, would be incompatible with the Constitution. I say it was possible to specify in the bill, e.g. I myself witnessed the adoption in the High House of this law, which was very quickly adopted, the contours of the restriction of freedom of assembly and authorised the Council of Ministers to introduce restrictions, but not the ban on assembly, within these limits. It seems that this would be in line with the standard set out in Article. 57 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u451	Thank you very much. The list of questions has been exhausted. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u452	Thank you very much. I was supposed to say for probably 10 minutes, but Mr Trociuk actually said almost everything I wanted to say, so I'm just going to limit myself to very short terms. It is here that the questions which were asked, concerning intervention, the manner of intervention, etc., etc., were very often answered, whether there was a legal response, such was the law, etc. Only the problem arises when this law is simply illegal. Unfortunately, it was with those rights. It started with the health minister's regulation. I'd like to remind you of that. The first regulation was a regulation of the Minister of Health. He included prohibitions and restrictions in this regulation, which he had no right at all as Minister of Health. After 2 weeks, among others. as a result of public statements on this matter, this has been withdrawn and a regulation has emerged from the Council of Ministers, which has completely consumed this regulation of the Minister of Health. So the government realized that for two weeks there was a completely illegal act. He was also the basis for the parking tickets. Then there was a regulation of the Council of Ministers, in which some of the provisions were actually in line with the law, stemmed from the law, but some of the provisions did not follow from the law E.g. Prohibition of movement And so it was defined there, or the ban on moving except... The epidemic law does not give the right to prohibit movement. Gives you the right to limit the way to move. So it was illegal again. On this basis, fines were also imposed and penalties were imposed. I hope that all those who have been punished in this way will appeal to the court and that the court will grant them the right will restore justice. And finally, this ban on assembly, which so slipped through, is, of course, a ban on political assemblies, protests of all kinds, etc. It was a manifest violation of all laws and constitutions. The emergency situation, a certain state of emergency, actually allows to limit, by means of regulations, such rights. And if there is no emergency, as the constitution says, it must be specified in the bill. It is not about a delegation to issue a regulation, but it is about the fact that the law must state what it means to restrict the right to assembly. And it cannot be the elimination of such gatherings at all. This article quoted here often says that such a law must not violate the essence of the law, and the essence of the right to assembly is that one can gather. If you can't get together at all, it violates that creature. Finally: how can we interpret the situation in which several people protested We discussed this here in the context of another discussion, but following the guidelines, so to speak, and the principles, i.e. kept a banner, one person from the other at a distance of 2 m, and that's how they moved? What's going on here? Well, it turns out they've been given giant punishments! Woman with a bike It's true, isn't it? There was a banner on that bike. It's true, isn't it? And what did it turn out to be? The assembly, right? Which means this woman violated that rule of assembly. One person, isn't it? So I would like to point out that if a regulation is issued, there is a law that is illegal, illegal, then of course the police are acting in accordance with that law. And that may even be hard to complain about. Then you have to resent those who have issued such a right. Or maybe that's gonna happen. And they did. It could have happened that they had issued such a law. But at the moment when they are drawn to attention, when the spokesman writes about it, etc., they should immediately withdraw from it, they should put these things differently. But they don't because they think they're allowed to do anything. And for such reasons, then the situation arises, such as in the case of entrepreneurs or other protesters. If there was a demonstration today and everyone would be walking, keeping a distance of 2 meters apart, I'm curious, I'd like to know if... Well, this ban has already been lifted, but just a moment ago the police would have intervened, of course, because there's a ban on assembly. So the first thing is, if there's any bans, restrictions, etc., you have to make sure that it's absolutely in line with the highest law, with all the rules. And if someone made a mistake, he gave it up wrong, and it was pointed out, it needs to be corrected, not persisted in error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u453	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you. I'm resigning. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u454	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two comments. First of all, I find this presentation of Minister Wąsik today extremely sad. Allow me to recall this example that I used during the meeting of the Legislative Commission. It is 1988, 11 November, in Poznań there is a demonstration after Mass at the Jesuit Fathers. This demonstration is heading towards the Old Town. So it turns out, ZOMO's troops, and it's starting to run this demonstration. This demonstration is also taking part, today we would say, the councilman, then a member of the City National Council, who hides himself under the authority of this councilman. You can't say he's beaten, but he's poked in all this confusion. Then for some days there is a discussion in Poznań about whether the police should behave like this. Well, neither the power that didn't come from democratic elections nor the police that didn't stand up for democratic power. And I would say that then, including 1988, police representatives defended themselves much more softly than you defended the police here today, Minister Wąsik. It was then, as I understand it, the leadership, the Command of the Civic Militia, to admit, at least half-mouth, that we were dealing with something to deal with. We shouldn't. Minister Wąsik here has never once stated that there may have been some abuse on the police side. Well, 30 years after independence. It's a sad fact for me, and I want to say it out loud here. And line two. A very interesting element was raised by both Mr Trociuk and Mr Marshal Borowski, but the Ombudsman drew attention to one thing, everything concerning religious gatherings. Well, there was a very interesting analysis in Rzeczpospolita, which showed that the government, when introducing these provisions, could commit a breach of the concordat. I also spoke with one of the Members of the current term of office, who held high ministerial functions, and he, after reading this article, also believed that there had been a breach, a little like your spokesperson. Therefore, I allowed myself to make a senator's statement on this matter to Minister Szumowski and Prime Minister Morawiecki at the last meeting, a statement drawn up by a lawyer who indicates where these violations could have occurred. I am very curious about the answers, and I think that you are also a spokesman, because this is only one piece, but the whole range of elements of reality that Senator Borowski was talking about. I think that at the moment we are dealing with the end of the pandemic, it will be worth to analyze this range in very detail, not only this one piece, which I am allowing myself in some way to touch with my senator's statement from the previous sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u455	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My name has been mentioned many times in this debate today, but I would like to make it clear that I am not the victim, I am not the victim. I don't feel that way as a natural. I believe that in this whole situation the most disadvantaged is the Polish citizen, an ordinary man who has his rights. The fact that I was disrespected is not a coincidence. You do not respect the citizen, you do not respect the right of Poles, us, Poles, to freedom, to express your opinions, to show that we sometimes think differently from the authority that wants everyone to agree with it, or at least that everyone obeys it. I do not agree to such treatment of Polish citizens, to such treatment of anyone in our country. I have the impression that we are living in such a little Orwellian reality, in fact an animal farm, where it was decided that all animals are equal, but some are equally. Let's not be the pigs that issued such regulations to Orwell. Let's respect each other. Now maybe about these events, because here the Senators of the PiS often doubt and question my participation, my motivations. I did not go to protest, I was there because I knew that citizens would express their opposition to the existing situation in Poland, against this power. I wanted to see if the police would exceed their powers. It's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... I'd even say it's my duty, as a senator, to watch the police act. The moment I entered Castle Square, there were various walking groups in Castle Square, which the police did not pursue, but there were also about 5 people surrounded by a cordon of over 100 police officers. One of the people surrounded spoke through the microphone. There was a sound system, his own mobile sound system. Others stood not 2 m away, but at least 5 m away from the speaker. None of these people were in a forbidden distance from each other. When policemen brought out one of those Polish citizens, who held a card with the inscription "Constitution," I did not react because they did it calmly. When the other one was taken out, I didn't react either, and it was peaceful. But at the moment that six policemen threw themselves at this speaker and started dragging him out, while He didn't do anything inappropriate except that he spoke, and I intervened. I don't agree with the police treating any Pole like that. We live in a free country and I don't want to be enslaved in this way and forced to be shown who's in charge. I showed my ID, the police knew before that I was a senator, the crowd around me started screaming that there was a senator, there was a Member. Still, the police after a moment's hesitation Yeah, it is. She continued pulling this man and me towards the squad car. I stood on the steps of the car, demanding It's been a long time. To come to the commander and explain to me on what basis and why the police are so brutally acting. At this point, I was attacked because I was cut from behind and pushed into a car. The team leader who spoke to me shouted: "But this is the senator!" So he knew who he was dealing with. The other one who cut me, despite the slogan, is the senator who shouted back: to the cart with him! He didn't lock the door. I was recited to be detained on the basis of an article like this. So I'm asking. Did the police stop me, or was she kidding? If a Polish citizen hears from the police, which he respects, that kind of formulation, he should know that he is actually detained, unless you have different standards and from now on, when the police are making a statement to someone that this person is being detained on the basis of such an article, he will be able to tell the policeman: I understand, the policeman is joking. Well, when I was arrested, I asked how it was done, because the cops knew perfectly well that I was a senator and represented the Polish people. Later, after consultation, it was concluded that I should leave the car immediately. I heard: please leave quickly. I did not want to leave because I still preferred to talk to the commander and find out who gave such orders, not other orders, orders such brutal treatment of citizens of the Republic of Poland, free people, whose freedom is guaranteed by the constitution. It is not my consent to such treatment of Poles, and it will never be. I can tell the police, and Minister Moustache. It's too bad he's not with us anymore. If there are further demonstrations, I will also observe whether the police exceed their powers, whether the freedom of citizens of the Republic of Poland is respected. It's my duty, and that's what my constituents have committed to. I respect the police and I didn't fire anyone. These innuendoes that were coming from the Minister here are embarrassing. I hope the police will explain the whole thing quickly, because I expect an apology. Yesterday I got an answer from the Police Headquarters that they didn't have that case being investigated, and so on. In general, I was dropped by a razor. Well, you could say that colloquially. Since the police refer to it this way, today I filed a notice to the prosecution that the police had exceeded their rights and violated my goods. I hope that the prosecution, even though it is managed by Minister Ziobra, will be sufficiently objective in this matter and will ensure compliance with the law of the Republic of Poland. I hope we're still living in the state of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u457	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u458	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that the matter of the violation of Senator Bure's immunity and personal immunity and today's debate in the Senate is very well reflected in the state in which the Polish state and the Polish democracy are located. It is also about how a government representative, Minister Wąsik, spoke. Dear Sirs, the authority of many of us, Prof. Bartoszewski, used to say that the truth is not lying in the middle, but where it lies. And today I would like to tell you where the truth lies, making clear many statements by Minister Wąsik. Firstly, Minister Wąsik claims that the ban on assembly at the time of the epidemic was lawful. That is not true. We've heard from the Ombudsman's representative. We understand this ourselves by examining the constitution, especially the chapter on emergency states, in particular the article. 233 "that it could not have been possible without the introduction of an emergency, in this case the state of the natural disaster, to establish such a far-reaching restriction on civil rights as the abolition of the right to assembly. I would remind you that it was in this House over a month ago that we called on the government to introduce this state. The Senators of the PiS were against it. An announcement of this state in our homeland would have meant that many solutions could have been introduced in line with the Constitution. Well, for example. the election could be postponed, which, unfortunately, was not done. Secondly, Minister Wąsik stated that the police and the servants under his ministry treated all the assemblies equally. Well, that's a clear lie. We have seen the brutality with which conventions have been treated twice at the strike of entrepreneurs. I've got movie shots here, there's a lot of them online, where, for example. Demonstrators are... cops kneel on their necks or pull their necks. It was an unusual brutality, which for 30 years of free Poland rarely occurred, if ever. And we also have other photos from the same days. Same days, ladies and gentlemen. E.g. A few days later, under the same legal conditions: Mr Duda's presidential candidate a few days later in Garwolin and Maciejowice had these kinds of rallies that no police officer had driven, even though there, in my opinion, when I look at pictures and films, there was no obligation to wear masks or keep distance between people much more than on the strike of entrepreneurs. They're unknown to me, too. And I would very much like to hear it from Minister Wąsik. Police interventions in a situation where the President of the Council of Ministers, under the same legal conditions, met with strangers at one table at a restaurant, while such meetings for all other citizens were illegal and prosecuted. Third, let's move on to the facts of May 16th and the violations of immunity and the immunity of Senator Bure. In my opinion, during this debate we showed beyond doubt the film being played, the words of Senator Bure and the inconclusive denials by the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration that, first, Senator Bury had shown his identity and made it clear that he was a senator and, secondly, that the policeman had pulled and pushed him into a police car. So we are certainly dealing with a violation for the first time in free Poland, for the first time since 1989 of immunity and immunity of the parliamentarian. And now two conclusions, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Wójcik referred to... A mustache. Moustache, I'm so sorry. I don't know what I have with that Uncle. Minister Wąsik referred several times to his opposition past and demonstrations from the 1980s. Yeah, well, I have a history, too, and we were about the same age back then. We're not gonna bid on who's been hit on the back so many times and not just on the back of a zombie. But I want to be clear: since 1989 the use of police for political purposes that we have been dealing with in recent weeks has not been. We tried to convince the nation that something like this was happening, for example. Lying accusations that behind burning the booth in front of the Russian embassy the authorities stood, which is, of course, a lie, which lies various hater accounts, 10 black people and other such accounts connected with the ruling party tried to tell Poles. But there haven't been situations like the ones we've been dealing with in the last few weeks, just like there's been no situation in violation of parliamentary immunity. This authority has been using the police for its political purposes to destroy all forms of opposition demonstration in the strongest way since 1989. And finally, the final conclusion. Minister Wójcik... The mustache was very upset several times. One of the Senators of PiS, Mr Marshal Pęk, also in response to the questions we have asked Minister Wąsik. What is the source of this nervousness? It comes from one thing. The Senate and the Ombudsman, whose deputy here today has clarified the situation and has also said such things as the authorities do not want to hear, are practically the last institutions of the state that are able to control this power. And that does not please this authority, because all other state institutions obliged to control the authority are in the hands of that authority. Today's hearing, conversation, information and then the explanations of Minister Wąsik show clearly what the purposes of this authority are, so that there are no more institutions such as the Senate or the Ombudsman who can look at this power. in hand; to close the project, which is the dream of an older master with an office in Nowogrodzka; to make a whole one-party state, which no one controls anymore, and to have full control over all the activities of citizens, including opposition activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u459	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Pociej, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u460	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. What Senator Bosacki said a second ago, that's actually exactly what we're talking about with three or four initiatives. We say the same thing all the time. And I want to repeat what Senator Bosacki said a second ago, because, unfortunately, I actually hear in the statements of the Senators of Law and Justice that they are against it. I don't know why, because our calling is to control power, not just the one we're doing right now, which is from another camp. The whole idea of parliamentarians is to control all power, even if it comes from us. The Senators and parliamentarians of the Law and Justice have deserted in this respect. I'll say it every time. We have a duty, a privilege. And that's what our immunity is for, so we can not just look at power. On your hand, but also against that power. And in this respect, what happened to Senator Bury is an attempt to gag, intimidate parliamentarians. I'm amazed, I'm appalled that the Senators of Law and Justice who spoke here have spoken against this immunity. You are against the whole idea of parliamentarianism and you are against your own rights, which I assure you will be of use to you in a moment if you lose your power. I promise you that as long as I'm in the Senate, if anyone touches you, if you are opposed, I will defend you. You got a movie where you can see everything. And like this unfaithful Thomas... that's worse, because you don't even want to touch the wound, you say there's no wound, even though you have proof. What Minister Wąsik said, and the way he said it... I'm telling you again, Law and Justice colleagues, you got a slap from your own minister. "Knapsack language"? It's easy to wave your card? That's what the Minister said. This is the language used for parliamentarians? Do you guys see it and don't you really care? I asked you a question on May 16th. To this day, a dog with a lame leg didn't answer my question about the circumstances and what happened to Senator Bury. In this context, Senator Czerwiński answers, whom I really thank to some extent, because since there is no Senator Radziwiłła, it would indeed be difficult to talk about parliamentarianism, which requires some discussion. But how can the senator say that the wisher doesn't get hurt? This statement is such a scandal... I didn't expect the senator to speak of a colleague who may be from other positions, but, elected by tens of thousands of people, citizens, meets his mandate. Do you really think that if the police dare to beat up a parliamentarians, then the wannabe doesn't get hurt? It is absolutely incompatible with the whole philosophy of parliamentarians. Mr. Spokesman, Mr. Stanisław Trociuk, in his statement, completely blew up all this reasoning and what Minister Wąsik presented to us here. It turns out that everything the government does, the Home Office, is completely illegal. As for the fact that the Minister has an archaeological education, it occurs to me, when I listen to his explanations, only one sentence which is spoken in the cult film Sexmission: well, it's a mess you have, sisters, including Archeo! Really, this is unbelievable, this scale and what the Minister said here. And there was this part of the discussion... I know, of course, and the Minister spoke about it, how it can be compared to martial law, with anything before... Minister, then, of course, no parliamentarians were beaten, but only for one reason: that is because there were no opposition parliamentarians. And I think that anyone who speaks in this discussion should think about what we are for and why we have immunity because it works both ways. You'll be on the other side one day. And I promise that we will then account for every minister who will oversee the police, the servants. And we'll account for him if he uses that force against any parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u461	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński wanted to address ad vocem. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I certainly wouldn't take the floor at this point anymore, but the senator He kind of made me feel better. Well, I don't really decide what happened near that squad car in the course of that incident. That's what the D.A.'s gonna decide. I really hope so. I'm just saying that when I told the couple that the person who wanted it to be okay wasn't hurt, I figured that for this squad car to happen, that our senator friend had to be there first. By your own free will. As an adult, he had to face the fact that if there were such events there, he could become a participant in these events. That's it. That's it. We leave the decision to the right authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u463	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich, also remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u464	Thank you very much, Marshal. Am I being heard? Yes, you're heard, Senator. Thank you very much, Marshal. It is extremely important that we have a discussion in the Senate right now. She collects like a lens of our experience. And I am thinking here not only of the experience of senators or Members, but also of the experiences of the citizens involved, whose rights to express their views have gradually been violated in recent years. It's not a coincidence that we're talking about what's been going on in the last few days and weeks, because it's just the tip of the iceberg. After all, the years 2017 and 2018 are not only a time of large-scale social protests, which dealt with many important issues for our public life, such as. protests in response to actions, marches, rallies of fascist organizations, not only demonstration time On a huge scale, because they were in more than 100 cities throughout Poland in 2016, 2017 and 2018 in defence of the independence of the courts. There were also pickets of solidarity under the police stations and under the prosecutors' office, as well as protests under the parliament's building. After all, our parliament has been open for many years, not a stronghold. In recent years, he has been surrounded by barriers that an average citizen can't get through. How different the Polish Sejm and the Polish Senate look today compared to e.g. with the parliament of Greece or the Czech Senate in Prague. Those are open, ours are protected. Why? Because the current people are afraid of the reaction of people who want their rights enshrined in the Constitution and in the laws to be respected. This stronghold, this conversion of parliament into a fortress is a symbol of everything that has been happening in Poland in recent years. Not by accident a few years ago, in 2018, Polish citizens together with many parliamentary offices prepared a report on repression against those who wish to express their views as they did in a democratic state of law. Even then, in September 2018, we informed that there were over a thousand different proceedings against those who decided to manifest their attachment to freedom. Different types of repression were encountered, ranging from fines to court proceedings. I would say that, in almost all cases, the common courts were acquitted of those who faced them. Based on what? Based on a set of civil rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. But at the time of the epidemic on the basis of bad law, because the Council of Ministers regulation is a bad law. A law that excludes the application of freedom of assembly even when it should apply... So at that time, recently, we've been dealing with two symbolic events. The first is what we're talking about today, which is a violation of Senator Bure's parliamentary immunity. The infringement in an informed manner, the infringement in an ostentatious manner, the infringement in a visible manner. And the second is what happened on the 23rd of May on Saturday afternoon the police took a woman protesting in front of the radio headquarters of the Three, and so to speak, they arrested her bike. Could there be anything more absurd? This was not only an attempt to identify a woman and arrested her bike only because she decided to protest, one person, against censorship, which so ostentatiously appeared on the air of one of the public radio programs. These are the 2 symbols, the symbols of the fact that the authorities are afraid of the citizens, that the authorities are taking advantage of the epidemic and then the epidemic of Coronavirus, in order to stop citizens from trying to express their views, to which they have every right. Thus, this prestige of the Polish Police, built with such a canopy in recent years, is on its head, on its neck. Not by accident after 1989, the Polish Police replaced the Civic Militia, it was not just a random operation on words. This was about cutting ourselves off from the ungrateful past and building the prestige of those who are supposed to uphold the rights of the citizens, not the rights of power towards the citizens. What power does to the police... Yes, I have reservations here, and I am fully convinced that it is the authority that has been responsible for police action against citizens in recent years, especially during the epidemic. So it is the power that is responsible that the prestige of the Polish Police will be necessary again. After this power passes away It's hard to rebuild. It is not a sword, but the hand that directs this sword is responsible for what is happening in Poland at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u465	Thank you very much, Senator. That's what I've been thinking. Is there anything more absurd than arresting a bike? Yes, it is. In May last year, Spring activists were arrested with a projector on which the film by Tomasz Sekielski was displayed. So our police are actually going to ad absurd sometimes. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u466	Mrs. Marshal! Dear fellow Senators! First of all, I would like to express my regret that Minister Wąsik said what he had to say and no longer listens to our debate, and we invited him to it. Such a meeting in the Senate has to do with the fact that it should be mutual. All the more reason why I would like to thank the Deputy Ombudsman, who has been attending the sitting all day, answering our questions and just being with us. It would be good if all other institutions treated the Senate with the same respect and fulfilled their duties. I am very sorry because this is a very interesting discussion. We rarely have the opportunity to talk about matters that concern not only citizens, but also Parliament, its functioning and certain issues that relate to the role of parliamentarians. Such a question is e.g. Senate immunity or parliamentary immunity, but also judge immunity. He's often... Even here, once or twice, there were words that it was a privilege. I've never treated parliamentary immunity as a privilege. I am more comfortable with a definition that says that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of the Member. He doesn't belong to John Bury or Barbara Zdrojewska. Immunity belongs to the function we perform. And now let us consider whether a Member or a Senator ever ceases to perform this function. I don't think so. I'm sure a lot of you have been dealing with a situation where the phone rang last night and you had to go somewhere because something was burning in a town. Well, somebody called and you should've intervened. Each of us probably remembers this kind of situation. So in my opinion, the senator, the MEP or the MEP is just always at work, he always executes his mandate. It means that he has not only immunity, but also many restrictions on his own behaviour, which are not common citizens. I am talking about stressing that this is not a privilege, but a guarantee that a Member can freely execute his mandate without fear of political persecution. You can't use it that way. I'll tell you, I was against the restriction of immunity under the PO-PSL regime. Yeah, I was against the immunity limit, and I even talked about it somewhere in the media, as a councilwoman. I was saying that immunity should be maintained because we don't know what time it's gonna be. And unfortunately, the times have come. I don't think the previous power was aware that there might be situations like this with Senator Bury. This has not been the case so far. We can also imagine... Well, there's been a situation that has been searched by senator's offices. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yeah, I don't know if it's right, but I don't want to go through these things anymore. I just want to tell the citizens that we are not after Mr Bure's person, that we are not seeking any privileges. We expect the possibility of not punishing us, for example. For that, if we're at a demonstration and intervene. In my opinion, Senator Bury was at work and this is how it should be treated, Senator Czerwiński. Once again, the senator is always at work. If he sees such a situation and thinks he should intervene, he can do so. That's what I think. And the second thing I'd like to say. I would like to thank Senator Klich for describing our experience with these manifestations that are taking place and that have taken place throughout Poland. Because what happened to Senator Bure is what happens to hundreds of people in the country every day. Hundreds of people who are detained are being written down because they happen to be in Żoliborz on some street that is subject to draconian punishment, as are artists who have done happening that doesn't threaten anyone, etc., and have been punished with 10,000 punishments. It's a good thing they didn't pay $30,000 each. For some, this is a very severe punishment. And I regret the speech made by Minister Wąsik... I'm just embarrassed by this performance. I believe that the Minister has come here de facto only to say that he expects you to apologize to the senator that you will apologize. You're the senator to apologize? And he's also expecting to apologize to the police. Instead of apologizing on your own. And saying that the senator was interfering with officers, police officers at work... But I would like to point out that we could also reverse it, and I don't know if the officers were interfering with the Senator's work. Because perhaps the senator intervened because he thought there was a situation where citizens' rights were not respected. And he has the right, he has the right to enter institutions, etc. Very many things happened in the previous term and during this term. Things have happened unimaginable. I'm going to give you a second example that has upset me in my previous term of office. Not all of you know that. That was when the occupation of the hall in the Seym lasted. During that time, Marshal Karczewski one day walked into the O.R., sat where your Marshal was sitting, and here came a bodyguard with a holster with a gun. To the Senate. There's been a case. I asked you, do you have a gun? Well, I see security guards walk around with guns in full gutter. So that I note that under the rule of law and justice... And I gave an example of a marshal to say that it doesn't just apply to people in power who have ministers or someone like that. This also applies, unfortunately, to people like Mr. Marshal Karczewski. I'm afraid so. Some ancient customs are being violated. And that's very, very bad. I thought Minister Wąsik would come, apologize, say, "That's what happened, we're sorry, Mr. Senator, I don't think it's gonna happen again." No. I believe that today's demonstration by Minister Wąsik... Arrogance. ...isn't just arrogance. I think she's suggesting: be careful, because it can go on like this. I say, Mr. Minister Wąsik, none of us will be afraid of you here. Just as brave citizens stand on the street every day and are not afraid of you, so we will stand here and not be afraid of this attitude of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u467	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u468	Mrs. Marshal! I briefly, because practically all day we are debating and implementing the third item on the agenda. Just a little bit. If you're using legal terms, use them or use them correctly... Because I feel like you're specially trying to use them for other purposes. When it comes to arresting things, bikes, projectors, you can't arrest things, please don't use words like that. You can only arrest a person because the arrest is, ladies and gentlemen, imprisonment. That's one thing. Second line. I do not agree with the diagnosis made here, especially expressed by Senator Bosacki. I don't want to go on with this, but I just don't agree with this diagnosis. With regard to this issue of information, I would say this: let the authorities of the state act. The Minister informed that the case had been referred to the prosecutor's office on the correctness of police operations. Senator Jacek, too. Bury informed us here that he had filed a notice with the D.A. on the case. So let's give the authorities a chance to act. And when it comes to breaching the concordat, I'd be like... Don't make such a big deal out of it. I would just like to remind you that this is an agreement between the Holy See and the Polish Republic of 1993 and Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of this agreement, the concordat we read, that organizing public worship belongs to the ecclesiastical authority in accordance with the rules of canonical law and in compliance with the relevant provisions of Polish law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u469	Thank you very much. Once again, please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u470	Yes. Thank you very much. I need to address quickly what my colleague, Komorowski, said. Well, Mr. Senator, the call to have confidence in the authorities of the state, unfortunately, is badly shot, because no one at the moment has any confidence in those bodies of the state that have been independent for many years. And I would like anyone in the Law and Justice to ever tell me, at what time, in such a dramaticly large dimension, attention and reservations were directed towards these authorities of the state regarding the lack of credibility of their actions. I do not recall that over the past 30 years, all opposition forces and citizens have expressed reservations about how state authorities operate. The Senate must therefore, of course, act. I absolutely confirm what Senator Zdrojewska said. This scene from the previous term I was one step away from physically trying to get this officer out of the sitting room. It was a scene. Like a banana republic, it was a scandal. But I'm getting back to the main topic. Dear colleagues, do you really not understand that we can assume that in this case there may have been abuse in the field of action, to an independent police minister? I really deeply believe that the President of the Polish Radio, acting in front of the Three, did not get such an assignment, just as the police did not get the commission. The problem is that, after eliminating such people, and this was also mentioned today, like Senators Bobko or Stanisławek, you do not have a man in your ranks who would stand in this House and say that if it is an abuse, it is usually a filthy thing, and that such abuses must be stigmatized. Of course, I, as a representative of the opposition, can be glad that people like this director of the Three, or your president, are acting because they are really killing the current power. What Minister Wąsik presented today is... You are going exactly the same way and you really should, dear colleagues, consider whether in the name of some higher good one such voice should not appear among you in the previous term were the voices of Senators Bobka and Stanisławek. Who would have taken up a substantive conversation. And in the end, I'm gonna say yes. Treatment by your ombudsman, Mr. Bodnar, or, as it is now, his deputy, Mr. Stanisław Trociuk, every time as... Mr. Senator, if you could go to the end. I'm almost done, last sentence, I promise. ...as alien bodies... Is that smart? This is an institution which was one of the earliest and largest concessions of the communist regime for democracy, and you are wailing, finishing and undermining this institution, which is for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u471	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marcin Bosacki ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u472	I have been mentioned not by Senator Pociej, but by the previous speaker, a senator whose name I do not wish to name on purpose, so as not to cause another polemicism, and who was afraid to disagree with me and, of course, has an absolutely sacred right to do so. He did not agree, as he said, with my construction or concept that this power, the power of PiS and Mr Kaczyński, is striving to create a de facto one-party state in which no one controls them. Well, the honorable senator has added another argument to my thesis. Like a few other Senators, PiS listed an institution that according to them was to investigate the police's excesses related to the detention and violation of the opposition Senator's immunity. He replaced the D.A.'s office. Minister Wąsik has replaced the prosecutor's office several times. Why? Of course, because the D.A.'s office no longer investigates and prosecutes abuses of this authority, does not investigate suspicions of crime, but is the shield of this authority, because you have removed its independence and currently directly governs it by politicians, if not your party, it is your coalition, Mr. Ziobro. And that's why every one of you who's here is going to say, "Let the prosecution explain it." Well, of course he won't explain. The results of her work will be the same as in the case of the Silver Towers scandal and allegations that the president of the ruling party accepted PLN 50,000 in an envelope. The effects of her work will be the same as in the case of the resolution of a year The Heiter scandal at the Ministry of Justice. And the effects of her work will be the same as in the case of numerous cases of daily shopping by the Ministry of Health during this epidemic. The result of the prosecution's work will be the same as that of a possible investigation into the fact that a friend of the Minister of Health bought cavities and then sold them, on the same day, to the Ministry with a 300 percent margin. The prosecution listed by you as the one who's supposed to follow, track, and prosecute abuse of this power is already your shield. And that's why you're attacking the Senate and for example. ombudsman 'Cause they can still look at your hands. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u473	Thank you very much. And Senator Bogdan Klich in remote mode. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u474	I think it's gonna be shorter, Mr. Marshal, 'cause I'd just like to punctuate my earlier statement. This epidemic will end someday. And that power will come to an end. And we, attached to the Constitution, to civil rights, will seek to ensure that these civil rights, no matter who exercises authority, are respected. It's our duty. And that comes from a senator's vow. But, most importantly, I am convinced that citizens will also defend their freedoms, that in the streets of Polish cities there will be gatherings of larger, smaller and perhaps individual Which will show that Poles are attached to freedom. Freedom for Poles has always been the most valuable good. Therefore, I would like to express my admiration and respect for all those who have stood here, under the doors, under the windows of the Senate and the Sejm, and for those who, on the streets of Polish cities, have expressed their desire for freedom and for the constitution to be respected. Great respect and admiration for all citizens defending their civil rights and freedoms! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u475	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Maciej Wąsik, like to speak again? Oh, there's no more Minister... For a long time, for a long time. Please? He's been gone a long time. Good. Is the spokesperson... Oh, thank you very much. In that case, we proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality with the law at the time of the epidemic. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 127, and the report is published in print No 127 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u476	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 27 May 2020, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions calling for the observance of the principle of equality during the epidemic. The committees at their joint meeting on 2 June 2020 considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality vis-à-vis the law. Let me read this draft resolution right now. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the day... probably today's challenge to respect the principle of equality before the law. Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 32 states: "All are equal before the law. They all have the right to equal treatment by public authorities. The Senate of the Republic of Poland with the deepest concern about the state state states that during the epidemic, government authorities violate this sacred principle of democracy. During the epidemic, a number of civil rights and freedoms were reduced. The Senate protests that the restrictions introduced are applied by certain government administrations in a discretionary and unequal manner. It is unacceptable in a democratic legal state for health inspection authorities to punish Only on the basis of police notes For failing to comply with the rules of the epidemic of citizens with up to 10,000 zlotys, however, after evident violations of the epidemic rules by the politicians of the camp governing these bodies do not intervene. The Senate of the Republic of Poland also looks with concern at unequal treatment in the enforcement of restrictions on the right to public assembly. The police, with all severity and even brutality, have broken up peaceful protests against the government in recent weeks, especially the demonstrations of the entrepreneurial strike. Some of their participants, including the candidate for President of the Republic of Poland, were transported many kilometres from Warsaw. During the demonstration on 16 May, the police violated the senator's parliamentary immunity by forcing him into a police car. However, the conventions organized by the politicians of the ruling party were tolerated and even protected by the police. The Senate notes that such arbitrary conduct by state bodies, in particular the services subordinate to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, undermines citizens' confidence in the State. The Senate of the Republic of Poland shares the opinion of the Ombudsman that during the outbreak, unjustified legitimacy, preventive detention, mandates, imposition of sanctions by the health centre became a form of repression. The Senate welcomes the Ombudsman's repeated requests to governmental authorities to clarify cases of arbitrary application of the law during an epidemic. Many of these institutions, including the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration, are concerned. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on the Council of Ministers and other state institutions not to apply the law biasedly in an epidemic state, favoring the rulers and their supporters towards the rest of the citizens. A state where governments have more rights than citizens ceases to be a fully democratic state. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, let me say a few words about the course of the discussion at the meeting of both committees. The project, which the committees were considering, was already to some extent different from the one notified a week before due to the passage of time and corrections made by the applicants, but these were mainly adjustments consisting in reducing examples of unequal application of law during the epidemic. A request was made to reject the draft resolution at first reading. The motion was rejected as a result of the vote. As for the discussion, it was quite long and divided the members of the committee into those who agreed with the proposed resolution on the fact that, in fact, during the epidemic, the restrictions introduced during that state are unevenly applied... It has been argued that they concern not only political rights, for example. the right to assembly, but also ordinary civil rights, such as the right to move. There were examples of punishing with 10,000 fines by health care, without checking and practically without the possibility of a quick cancellation. Citizens were punished, e.g. They went out with a dog to the park or citizens, for example. They went out with a dog to the park, or citizens who rode their bikes, even in masks, without creating any threat to their fellow citizens. Of course, there were also arguments, already described in this House today, that this unequal treatment applies to opponents of the government camp and supporters of the government camp. There were examples of police and health services not responding. in the case of assemblies organized during the election campaign by the President-in-Office or on 10 April in Warsaw by politicians of the governing party. The second group of senators disagreed with this thesis and considered that we were not dealing with such selective or biased application of civil rights and restrictions during the epidemic. Representatives of the following institutions were invited to the meeting: the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Police and the Ombudsman. Only a representative of the latter authority appeared, the director of the department who confirmed that the Ombudsman had repeatedly applied to the authorities of the State, mainly under the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Health. He said that about 100 cases of such unequal treatment or excessive punishment of citizens had been considered and addressed. Some senators argued that the representatives of the 4 institutions invited did not have enough time to appear at the meeting of the joint committees. After a review, I would like to inform the High House that all these institutions had an equal amount of time. It was approx. 4 hours from the morning of yesterday until yesterday's hour. 2.30 p.m. I'm ready to answer all the questions. I ask the High House to give a positive consideration to the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u477	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Marcin Bosacki to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rafał the locksmith in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u478	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Senator, rapporteur, I read the title of the resolution and the examples cited, and I am amazed that you missed the obvious event, an event known to all of us and experienced by all of us, but omitted in this report. Do you really not remember the beginning of the epidemic when, due to the limited capabilities of the laboratories, Coronavirus tests were performed only to those who had contact, and here came a representative of the authorities, demanded that the test be performed at his place because he came back from Italy, and it was done? During this time, all citizens in a similar situation were obediently quarantined. Another representative of the government has a fever. Instead of sitting at home like other citizens, he comes to the Senate and takes a test to take part in the deliberations. Isn't that the situation you are writing about in the resolution, i.e. favoring the rulers and their supporters towards the rest of the people? So why is this example not included in the resolution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u479	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u480	Thank you very much, senator. The second case, frankly, I don't know. First... You spoke directly of the Senate Marshal. According to my best knowledge, the marshal returned from Italy before introducing not only an epidemic but also an epidemic threat as well as went to an infectious hospital in Warsaw like any other citizen and paid for the test. But to answer more precisely, I'll say no, it wasn't an object... None of these situations. As I say, one of them I just don't know, I don't know what situation you're talking about. It was certainly not the subject of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u481	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u482	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in the draft of this political resolution, you are making a lot of accusations about many institutions. I am a member of the Senate Legislative Commission, and I remember this meeting, before the motion for rejection was made, the arguments were that the parties were not invited. How long before the committee meeting had visitors... How many of these invitations were sent before the day of the meeting? That's the first line. You've been talking about such a broad discussion. How much time have we had to discuss? As I recall, we were very limited in time when it came to discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u483	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u484	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for the two questions. I already answered the first one. I looked it up after the committee meeting, all the institutions invited had nearly 4 hours to appear at the committee meeting, the delegation of a representative by the ministers or the heads of these institutions. I stress that only the Ombudsman did this. As far as your second question is concerned, the committee's meeting lasted two hours, roughly evenly. I, to be honest, did not see at this meeting restricting the right to debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u485	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u486	I would like to ask the rapporteur. Mr Senator, first of all, the original title of the draft resolution was that it was about equality in relation to the law during the epidemic, while the text that the committee finally adopted is no longer talking about an epidemic, but about the fact that, in general, there is simply no equality in relation to the law and the end. My question is this. At the beginning of the second paragraph of the project, which you present, report, it is stated a priori, very strongly that during the epidemic, a number of civil rights and freedoms have been reduced. This is seen as a fact. Tell me... You mention in the text the rights of freedom, the political rights that are enshrined in the Constitution. You know, in every such provision, there is an indication that the limitation of these rights can be done by law, or ordinary law. This is the case in many places, on the occasion of this chapter on freedom rights, it is also written that they can be limited. If, by stating that civil rights and freedoms are being restricted, you could mention at least one area that is not governed by the ordinary law and which could indicate that there are activities that are not in accordance with the Constitution in a situation where, as I said, these rights are simply contained in the ordinary law... And another question. In the fourth paragraph, you state what is happening during the outbreak. I would like to ask what instruments the Senate, the Legislative Commission or perhaps the Senator has, that you can state and assess that this situation should be called that it is non-compliance with the law. Or else: are there any judicial decisions, are there any statements made by the prosecution or any other institution, or does the Senate have any tools by which to determine what you may have ruled here in the fourth paragraph? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u487	Please respond to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u488	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator, for this question... in fact, there are two questions: concerning the second paragraph and the fourth paragraph. Mr. Senator, during the epidemic, a number of civil rights and freedoms have been reduced is not judged, that is, a statement of fact. It is a restriction of civil rights indicated by the Constitution, e.g. restricting the right of movement. It's in the bill... Let me finish. But it's not said here that it was illegally introduced. The allegation in the draft resolution is that the Senate protests that the restrictions introduced are applied by certain government authorities in a discretionary and unequal manner. We were discussing what could and cannot be done in this House more than a month ago when we said that in order to limit these political freedoms, freedom of movement, business, we need to introduce an emergency state, for example. the state of the natural disaster. But I stress that this resolution or the draft resolution does not concern this. You may be deceived because we mentioned this in the first version as well. But the draft adopted by the committees doesn't talk about it at all. It's going over whether these restrictions have been legally introduced or not, to... i.e. does not deal with this and only deals with whether these restrictions have been implemented equally for all groups of citizens, or whether the principle of equality between citizens and the law has been maintained. And against what we think was... We believe that the Senate should protest against the actions of the government administration which were incompatible with this principle. I forgot. I'm sorry, I'm going to add that there were actually some amendments at the committee meeting. One of them, Mr. Senator, was kind to mention. Indeed, the title of the resolution was amended, which called for the principle of equality before the law to be respected at the time of the epidemic, because, of course, the rights should be equal for all not only during the epidemic. For this reason, we considered whether the high committees considered that this final form of the title would be more appropriate. As for your questions about the fourth paragraph, Mr. Senator, it is that... we express our opinion, and we ask the Senate to support it It is the public administration, especially the government, that treats the enforcement of legal restrictions in an unequal way in various aspects. The third paragraph deals with unequal punishment for violations of epidemic rules and the fourth is to restrict the right to public assembly. Well, the fact that the police have been smashed up in the last few weeks by the Entrepreneur's Strike, that's just a fact. Of course, the legal basis for police action can be discussed. Here we had a serious discussion about it an hour ago, among other things. Deputy Ombudsman. This case was dealt with by the Warsaw appeal which divided the arguments I don't know if you've heard that. The fact that such universal restrictions on the right to assembly are insufficient by regulation is that there is a need for stronger legal legitimacy. But we, I repeat, do not judge the legal basis here, but judge that in the same days some cannot gather, in masks, keeping distance, in order to demonstrate their views, but are in a firm way, we also believe that brutal, deprived by the police, and others, on the same days when the same legal basis is in force, can gather, for example. in Piłsudski Square on April 10, there is no such example in the draft resolution Or during the demonstration of support for Andrzej Duda's candidate in two cities in Mazowsze, and there the police do not enforce restrictions on the right to public assembly. So that's the only way I can answer you. The High Senate will either divide this assessment or not divide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u489	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u490	Referring to the first question that was asked to the senator, by Senator Sillyman, who pointed out the unequal conduct of one of the high-ranking people... Of course, we're talking about Marshal Grodzki here, because we know who he is, who said he was back... No one could do the research, and he did it to himself. The senator has partially explained it, paid for it, did it. But my question is this. Are you aware that someone else came back from the skis during that time? He was Minister Szumowski. He didn't do a physical on himself, and when he asked why he didn't get a physical on himself, he said he felt healthy and went to work. Which attitude in your opinion was more appropriate: did the attitude of Marshal Grodzki, who, knowing that he would be here, lead the Senate deliberations, etc., have done this examination, paid for himself, or did Minister Szumowski, who ignored this duty? Mr. Marshal, I understand I can. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u491	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u492	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. In my opinion, of course, it is more responsible for the attitude of Marshal Grodzki, who I repeat that according to my knowledge he returned before the outbreak occurred in Poland, not to mention the state of the epidemic, after returning from Italy he decided to examine himself rather than the attitude of Minister Szumowski, whose statements during the outbreak, like this statement, are quite inconsistent... But, Mr. Marshal, this is unrelated to this discussion. Before that, the marshals disciplined, said it wasn't relevant, not relevant. Mr. Senator, this isn't about. I answer the question, Senator. But this isn't a court of law, is it? Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, Didn't Senator locksmith start this discussion? Is it me? Senator, compare the rapporteur's current answer with Mr Sillyman's questions and even with his own question, because the senator's question was slightly different. Mr. Senator, answer the question. Finally, I would also like to say that the applicants were considering entering this resolution as an example of March reports. After one of the constitutional ministers was infected with the coronavirus, the government is being examined regularly. And the question is whether this meets what we write about, whether it is equal or unequal treatment of the law. But we thought that this was a sign of responsibility, that those who may have come into contact with the infected, in this case one of the ministers, had examined themselves or even examined themselves many times. There is therefore no such wording in this resolution because we consider such an attitude to be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u493	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u494	Mr. Marshal! High House! Senator, I would like you to tell me why half of the resolution, half of the text, is the same as the evaluation wording, the value of which, in fact, as to the truth of these terms, can be judged by another body, but certainly not by the Senate. I'll give you some examples. Maybe it'll be easier. Second subparagraph: certain government authorities in a discretionary and unequal manner, etc. they used sharpening. Recognized and uneven... That means there'd have to be a charge somewhere that he did. Because your charge isn't enough. Two: for failing to comply with the rules of the epidemic of citizens, even up to 10 thousand zlotys were punished. Is that legal or not? Because if it doesn't, change the law. That's what the House is for. It has a legislative initiative. Why aren't you doing it? You've got most of it here, and you've got a new law. The mandate of the highest PLN 100,000 or, as you wish, 1 thousand PLN. And you're just joking around here, that's all. Two... Three, I apologize: after obvious violations of epidemic laws by the politicians of the camp governing these authorities do not intervene. What kind of cases are we talking about? If it was a violation of the law, send it to the D.A.'s office. You're even required to do that as a public servant. Next... Oh, this is the best one: a candidate for President of the Republic of Poland was transported many kilometers from Warsaw. How much is this? Ask the Warsawers whether Legionowo is many kilometers from Warsaw or not. Because he was taken to Legionov supposedly. The question is, could he have been transported? Does a presidential candidate have other rights than an ordinary citizen if he violates the law himself? Does he have any other rights? Next item: The gatherings organized despite the ban by the politicians of the ruling party were tolerated and even protected by the police. So the accomplices in breaking the law are reporting to the D.A.'s office. Next... Well, this is very interesting, the last paragraph: The Senate of the Republic of Poland urges the Council of Ministers and other state institutions not to apply the law biasedly in an epidemic state, etc. So now he's biased, I understand. Is that an appeal to the void? If biased A report to the D.A.'s office. Only that the Council of Ministers does not seem to apply the law, the institutions subject to it Yeah, maybe. The question is very simple: if the Council of Ministers applies biased law, why didn't you say so before? Oh, ladies and gentlemen, it's too special. 'Cause it can still be put on the carbs, I'd call it epi... epistolemo... well, whatever, writing letters, that lyrics... The last thing is paragraph five. The Senate notes that such arbitrary conduct by state bodies, in particular the services subordinate to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, undermines citizens' confidence in the State. I will stay here for a moment at the word "arbitral," because it is an evaluation. Even if it were left... On the contrary, Senator. Mr. Senator, go ahead. Okay, last sentence. The point is to understand the meaning of that sentence. You are here accusing citizens of losing their trust in you. It's the opposite. Thanks to the fact that citizens have had and still have confidence in you and have followed the orders that this country has imposed on them, and which you are now undermining, there is a low mortality rate and only 10% is used. or 15% respirators. Well, you don't have to choose which old lady to disconnect from that ventilator. It is thanks to you that this is the case, and you are now trying to undermine your confidence in this resolution. You're the one doing this, not us. This is done by the country that signed it and will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u495	We're betting a dot, Mr. Senator. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u496	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator, for asking the question. It was indeed very extensive and consisted of more statements than question marks. I can answer you this. First of all, we can discuss many examples of unequal application of the law during the epidemic, and I would very much like to explain these examples to you. We purposely limited their number in this resolution so that it is more compact and transparent. I think one of these examples answers most of your allegations. Well, this is an example of the government's application of bans in a discretionary and unequal manner. How do we know that? I'll tell you what. This is an example of the fact that after evident violations of epidemic laws by the politicians of the camp ruling the state authorities did not intervene, that such acts were tolerated and even protected by the police. Well, I'll give you two examples. One concerns the situation from 11 days ago... and perhaps even from 8 days ago, when Prime Minister Morawiecki, despite the ban, met with three strangers, thus breaking the epidemic laws here I have a picture in case the honourable senator wants to look at it. Because then there was a ban on meeting or even sitting at one table with anyone who doesn't belong to a family who doesn't live with them. This caused widespread outrage to citizens, and after two days, the Prime Minister actually apologized for it, admitting that it was a bad example. And that's the answer to your next charge. Why do we write that trust in the law is being violated? Well, that's the answer. In this way, the power itself breaks the sharpenings it has introduced, regardless of whether it is lawful or not. And it sets a bad example for citizens. And the second example is... And that, of course, is the answer to your next charge. Yeah, there's been a report of a crime. It is about April 10th, this assembly, during which dozens of people without masks stayed close to Piłsudski Square in Warsaw. It was organized by the president of your party. And this assembly was undoubtedly not only tolerated by the police, but also protected. If I can put an end to this, you're welcome. That's a difficult word, that was
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u497	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Thank you for the hint on the difficult word. As for this second example, here a few hours ago the minister explained that it was in the performance of his duties and duties. It is simply not subject to certain prohibitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u498	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Marek Komorowski in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u499	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. We've been debating for a long time. Now there's practically another point, but thematically these two points are connected. I don't think there's any point in convincing each other, 'cause at this point, everyone's gonna stick to their sentence. But I have one question. Don't you think, Senator, that, in the light of all the discussion at the previous point, it would be appropriate, however, to make some adjustments to this resolution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u500	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u501	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. In my deepest opinion, the debate and the course of the conversation with the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Wąsik, proves the absolute purpose of this resolution by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The fact that the senator's parliamentary immunity has been violated, in my opinion, has been proven by a film, by the senator himself. In any case, Minister Wąsik even agreed that, yes, there was a police officer who pushed the Senator of the Republic of Poland into a police car. He didn't even deny it. He was denying another fact, which I think was overthrown by the film, namely that a police officer did not know that he was dealing with a senator. The film clearly shows that Senator Bury has a senator's card, and other people are screaming that he is a Senator of the Republic of Poland. Thus, in my opinion, the debate on the previous point even increases the purpose of this resolution and its support by the Senate of the Lightest Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u502	Thank you very much. The question you ask in remote mode is Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u503	Thank you very much. I reserve, Mr. Marshal, that I would like only in correction mode, because Mr. Senator Wind had some doubts about what could be said or what could not be said. I would just like to say that I think that Mr. Marshal Pęk is very good at conducting this discussion and that the criticism of Mr. Marshal Pęk's wind by Senator Przek is absolutely inappropriate and there is no basis in reality. I think that Senator Pop is very good at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u504	You see, Mr. Senator, and before you asked that question, I bit my tongue because I was going to say that it would certainly be a very inspiring question for many Senators of Law and Justice. I wasn't wrong. You're asking Senator Marek Komorowski again in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u505	I understand Senator Bosacki's reply that he does not see the need for any amendment of this resolution. This is, of course, the opinion of the rapporteur. I'll just say yes. On the other side, the penultimate paragraph includes the Ministry of the Interior and Administration, and on the first page at the end of the Minister of the Interior. It's just... It's like we have two ministries: the Home Office and the Home Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u506	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u507	Thank you very much, senator, for bringing this to your attention. It's already been... This was noted during the committee's deliberations. It's an oversight that we didn't correct it. Here, of course, in the last paragraph on the first page of the resolution should be the services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. And I ask for such a change, I hereby declare such an autocorrection.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u508	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Would anyone present at the meeting like to speak on the draft presented? Mr. Stanisław Trociuk is with us again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u509	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am absolutely not going to respond to the content of the resolution. I just want to point out a legal problem that... Minister, you're very welcome to the podium, because there's a problem with this microphone. There you go. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As I said, I am not going to refer to the content of the resolution. I would like to draw attention to a legal problem which has been identified by the Ombudsman, which refers to what is also the subject of a resolution, i.e. the conduct of administrative proceedings on administrative fines. Well, there are a lot of complaints in these cases from citizens who have been punished. I don't want to empathize with examples here, but people who... There is, for example. A retired woman who has a thousand 400 PLN pension and has been punished with an administrative penalty of 12 thousand PLN for being in the park where she walked behind the dog. We've been investigating these cases. At the moment, there are a number of issues either the Ombudsman has brought forward or has challenged administrative decisions taken by health inspection bodies. And there's a repetition of the pattern of police intervention, there's a memo being made, and then this memo is handed over to the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. The only problem we have identified is that there is no legal basis for the police to pass on such notes from the State Sanitary Inspection. It is appropriate to indicate in particular Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Police Act, which specifies in which cases and for what purposes the police undertake their activities. Well, and that provision provides that he is taking them in order to identify, prevent and detect crimes, tax offences and offences. Not for the initiation of an administrative procedure. And not for the purposes of this administrative procedure. Therefore, the police may draw up such a memo and then either punish the person concerned for committing an offence under Article. 54 of the Code of Offences, or, if that person refuses to accept the mandate, refer the case to the district court for punishment. In turn, the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Police Act states that the police also perform other activities, among others. at the request of governmental or local authorities, but, as the law provides, to the extent that this obligation is defined by separate laws. That means there has to be a clear legal basis for the police to do this. The only statutory basis which is and which concerns the imposition of administrative penalties, and which confers on the police the power to deal with such arrangements, is in Article. 15zzn paragraph. 2 of the Law of 2 March 2020. This provision states that the financial administrative penalty may be imposed by the State Health Inspector, but for breaching the obligation of isolation and quarantine. And such punishment may be imposed on the basis of police findings. In other cases there is no legal basis. And I would like to remind you that Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The 5th constitution, which regulates the individual's information autonomy, states that the collection, processing, sharing of information takes place in the manner and in accordance with the principles set out in the Act, which means that there must be a statutory basis for the police to also provide such information to other authorities, including official notes. Therefore, in the case of those proceedings to which the Ombudsman has joined, we already have 2 repealed decisions of the district health inspector in the capital city of Warsaw. The Ombudsman takes the view that this evidence has been obtained by the health inspection authorities illegally and therefore illegally. And that's all I wanted to add here to explain what the legal situation is when it comes to dealing with administrative penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u510	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the guest present at the meeting relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, a simple question: I understand that your actions have already been effective at the administrative stage? You didn't have to complain to the court, appeal, etc.? If so, it means you can just do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u512	In two ways... I mean, we have a lot of these things, so of course the truth... There will be no cases where there will be final decisions, i.e. when someone has not filed an appeal. In these cases, there is only a road to the administrative court, and it is no longer for the party, but for the Ombudsman. But there's no such thing. At this point in time, the proceedings in which we are taking part are either proceedings consisting either of recourse by the ombudsman himself to a higher instance, i.e. a voivodship state health inspector, or of accession to appeals which have been lodged by the parties to these proceedings. At the moment, it's a dozen or so cases that we're taking part in. And we have, as I said, 2 decisions in which the authority in self-control has repealed the decisions. Let me add that there are a whole series of charges that we're charging, which is, of course, what I said is not the only charge. The first and fundamental plea we raise is that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure are in particular infringed and that the party to the proceedings is deprived of the possibility of defending his or her rights. Because if the only evidence is a police officer's memo, it's not enough. I would also like to remind you that the nature of the administrative penalty proceedings in general precludes the possibility of an administrative decision without the participation of the party, because the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure which govern the procedure for administrative penalties are ordering the body to examine the personal situation of the person to whom the administrative penalty is imposed. Well, you can't do that without taking evidence, because you have to explain the material, professional situation of this person, i.e. whether the person has sources of income, sources of livelihood In order to determine whether this punishment, which is being imposed, will be a proportionate penalty. Thus, the first and fundamental plea that we make in this proceeding concerns an infringement of the party's active participation in administrative proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u513	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u514	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Raise your desktop... On the right side... More, more. Thank you very much. This is as far as you can go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This political resolution, prepared in an extraordinary manner, has a confrontational character. For starters, maybe I'll just talk about proceding mode. Many times in the Chamber, you have complained, especially from this side of the House, about the rapid process of projects. And how did you proceed with this draft resolution? The resolution prepared, I will say colloquially, on the knee, introduced within a few hours to the committee's deliberations, without an opinion, in principle without the invitation of the parties, because the invitation sent a few hours before the committee meeting is not an invitation in my opinion. Already at the committee meeting we received an amendment which basically amended the whole text of the resolution. However, it is most shocking how the resolutions in the Legislative Commission, of which I am a member, are being examined and the differentiation of senators on better and worse. When the initiative is submitted by a representative of the Law and Justice, you demand an opinion and throw it in an example freezer. In the case of your projects, fearing discussion, you push these projects as quickly as possible. The second point is the confrontational nature of the resolution. During the entire committee meeting you have tried to prove that there is no democracy in Poland, that there is a violation of the law in Poland. Of course, I completely disagree with that. If the law is violated, do you write the Senate resolutions, or do you refer the application to the D.A.'s office? I think it's the other one. I'll repeat what I said at the committee meeting. If you think there's been a violation of the law in these situations, you have a right to report it to the D.A. and law enforcement. On the other hand, if you think that certain provisions of the law are wrong, then you have a legislative initiative, as Senator Czerwiński reminded us here. You are making accusations against many state institutions in your resolution, de facto refusing to allow discussion. The resolution itself, however, in my opinion biased and confrontational, is part of the destructive policy of the majority, which currently governs the Senate, into a policy which, in my opinion, depreciates our House during this term of office. I am applying for the rejection of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u515	Thank you very much. And Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u516	I'm gonna start by saying I'm gonna agree with Senator Swede on something. This is a political resolution. Indeed, she is a political resolution because she responds to the political situation, to a certain state of affairs. And it is not surprising that it has a political dimension. So here's the full agreement. The second thing I'm gonna start with is that in order for there to be no doubt, I'm not in favour of such resolutions, but not because there's something wrong with them, just because I don't believe in the power of such resolutions. I mean, I know the Senate's voice will be ignored, it will be thrown into the basket, and not much will change in this matter. But what do I want to say first? It is not important to mention the things that have been said so strongly in this resolution and to be assessed. Why? Because that's not the point. It is a very important issue, even fundamental, to which our colleague Senator Marcin Bosacki pointed out. And praise him for that. Well, he pointed out that the authors of various restrictions, the limitations themselves, do not respect them. And that's the main problem. If the government, government representatives say: "It is forbidden to enter the diner, it is forbidden to enter the forest, it is forbidden to enter the cemeteries, it is forbidden to do this, it is not allowed to do this, it is not allowed to do this, it is all mentioned in turn, it is not enough that the legislation behind which certain criminal sanctions, administrative sanctions, fines are laid down, and they do not respect the prohibitions themselves, then the situation is that the senators are obliged to draw attention to this. It is important to me that the parents of the child who bury this child in a cemetery, a teenager, are fined during the pandemic, while at the same time the president of your party in a large column goes to the cemetery not to bury someone, but to commemorate the memory of someone who died in the past. It's amazing to me, I mean. I think it's just inhumane, unfair, it shouldn't be in the state of law. We are dealing with a situation in which many young people, because they mostly work in diners, gastronomy, various places like this... They know they have this business closed down, they can't work there, but they can't be consumers either. And suddenly they see a prime minister who drinks tea, coffee, no matter what, and who says he treated it as a recommendation. He signs a legal act with certain consequences. For me it is very important that the citizens of the Polish state, in short, know that the law is the law and applies to everyone and that those who sign under this law are not excluded in a positive sense. Because that's what the initiator of this project is about, this resolution today. If the schools are closed, and we know very well that, in fact, children, if they have Coronavirus, then asymptomaticly and without these dramatic effects... The schools are closed. We asked the Senate Minister to tell us what the future would be like in these schools by the end of June, whether there would be exams or not. He hesitated, lagged, didn't answer, moved the announcement of information, in short, didn't take parents, teachers and children very seriously. But in the end, this decision was made: children do not go back to school. However, the most affected group is the elderly. The schools are closed, and the temples are already open. As the Minister of Health, I would very much like to pay attention to this imbalance and to some impropriety, because if citizens do not understand the logic of events and limitations, they will not only not respect the government, which is not the most important to me, but they will also not respect the law, and that is already important to me. Because the state of law is one in which everyone is equal, but the law is understandable, applied according to the situation. We had the government's decision not to enter the forest when the de facto threat of being there wasn't there. The government freed forests from these restrictions on non-entry when these forests had to be shut down because there was drought and threatened fires. Citizens are watching. There's an example of a retired woman who walked out of the house after a dog, went to some park, and was punished with a spokesperson talking about it. A penalty of several thousand zlotys, even though her pension is about 1 thousand zloty. I would understand it if the Prime Minister would at the same time pay those dozens of thousand zlotys for spending time in a diner, even though he shouldn't have, without a mask, without protection. We have these two examples, and we see that all this is wrong, that we are simply dealing with a situation where the rule of law, how it works, is, unfortunately, inconsistent and unfair. And that is what Marcin Bosacki, the initiator of this resolution, is asking for today. I wouldn't go into detail, if that sentence sounds perfect, or if the example is the best, but I would get right to the point. We are simply dealing with a situation where authors of various limitations, i.e. rulers, who should be an example, should be exemplary, unfortunately not glowing with them, but quite the opposite. That's the problem, and that's the problem. And now the two points he was referring to all the time refer primarily to Senator Czerwiński. I respect all the elements which are related to the calling of certain laws or the expectation of us, senators, in this case senators dominant in the Senate, to concreteize certain examples. Is it far or close to Legionov? You have to ask those who have been deported, whether it's far or not, whether it makes sense or not. Just so gently. But I want to talk about something much more serious, which was highlighted above all by Senator Marek Borowski, many times. The main point is that this logic of different limitations would make sense when a natural disaster was introduced. Then it could be said that the government draws the source of the law directly from the constitution. But the government took a shortcut. It has led to numerous, extremely important restrictions on civil rights, assembly etc., etc., etc. without taking advantage of the state of natural disaster, i.e. primarily not using the Constitution, and gave himself various powers in laws which he interfered with the rights of citizens by imposing certain obligations, but also by imposing absolutely abstract penalties in many cases. I don't want to wonder if I'm leaning over some particular, particular case right now. I'm just observing what's in the area of this social sensitivity, and I have to say one thing: if young people, older people, working, not working, raising children, etc. They see that we have inadequate, inconsistent, illogical and unobserved by those who are the authors of the laws, then don't be surprised that they are just starting to ignore them. I have witnessed the functioning of some institutions which should be subject to epidemic restrictions all the time. We saw Ikea in Katowice, as I recall, a pier in Sopot, a lot of diners, a lot of diners. People do not respect the laws because they see that those who are the authors of these laws do not respect them either. Finally, I would like to say again: the intention of this resolution is to draw attention to such a problem, not to certain details, which are merely exemplifications of the state of things. I have encouraged everyone to remember that the law should be equal for all, logical, transparent and above all serving people, not power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u517	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In part, I will refer to Senator Zdrojewski's speech, because it is worthwhile, really, to argue here. The first part is to actually write out what I said, in the context of today's second reading of the draft resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it would be so shared that one person from you, one resolution, one sitting, but I see you're speeding up. I don't know what it's about. Perhaps the meetings will be less frequent and not everyone will be able to. But I'm serious now. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, in one sentence, until a certain point, that is to say until the end of that term, the Senate generally spoke in historical, uncontested, albeit worth reminding society in a balanced, short, condensed manner. Now we have resolutions that are disputed, which, at the time of the vote, pass by two or three votes and do not really portray the position of the Senate as Chamber, but the position of the Senate majority. Of course you can, just the question: why? You have much more opportunities to express your political views, of course others, whether in the media or in the press. The involvement in this Senate, as I said, depreciates senate resolutions, in general the status of this institution, i.e. the Senate resolution. The effect will be that after a while no one will pay attention to it, for a simple reason. 'Cause we know a sentence about those topics that you're talking about in these resolutions anyway. The second question is the validity of this resolution. I tried to ask the representative of the applicants, the rapporteur of this resolution, to present these places This is almost half of the text, and certainly 1/3 of the text in which you perform such volts or such an eristic procedure: you give a certain fact and judge it as you see it, and you actually give an assessment of this fact, which is not unambiguous. One example I did not use to stop going back to, but it will have to go back, namely the violation of the parliamentary immunity of the senator. That was the point before. Not everyone thinks immunity has been violated. You have a different assessment, we have a different assessment. And we're not the ones who evaluate it, based on images from one camera or another. That should be settled by an independent body. And it's probably gonna end in court. This will be decided by an independent body. We don't judge the facts. 'Cause if we go this way, this path, somebody's going to be right, in this case right. One of the chambers of the Supreme Court will say, well, what are you interfering with our powers? Why are you forcing such a sentence rather than another? No matter whose side you're on. A state, a citizen, one citizen against another... Ladies and gentlemen, do you really not see this? Facts, current facts, precisely from this political course, should not be judged here by the High House. If they're contentious... their assessment, who else should... there's organs in the country... That's what three divisions of power in the Constitution are for. The Constitution is not just a cover with the inscription "Constitution," there is still content. You violate this kind of resolution, maybe not immediately, maybe not directly, but indirectly, the division of power. You judge the facts before a court, against any other authority. Lots of... This is actually an attack on government institutions. I will quote which of them are presented in a bad light in this text. This is actually a small text, because it's on one and a half sides, and yes: Police, MMA services, government administration, Council of Ministers, government administrations, State Sanitary Inspection, health inspection bodies, health services under the Ministry of Health, MMA, other state institutions... That's all you've mentioned as the evil black wolf. Was that true? And here we come to the third layer of this resolution, in my opinion the most... I don't know what to call it... maybe not intended, but the most striking... one in which the Senate most hits certain foundations of statehood. Because notice, if there's a fact of doubt, even a public uproar, then if it's suable, then you just have to report it to the D.A., if the D.A. hasn't made it public... Or you have to defend someone who's been wronged in some way, e.g. A mandate... Actually, it's not a ticket, it's an administrative penalty of PLN 10,000. I agree with the fact that these are in some cases too high a penalty, but... I've never praised the ombudsman here, you know that. In this case, I really do return the honor of the services of the Ombudsman who deal with such matters and try to undo it. What should we do if we see something like this? Change the law. I'm going back to that basic function again. Legislative initiative. Why shouldn't these penalties be such or at least not so applied? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as this. There's an attempt at political exploitation. Why? And that is what you may not be aware of in the text of this resolution. The fifth paragraph, which I will try again to quote to understand it well. But I'm going to quote it without the word "arbitral," because it's an evaluation word, and I want it to be true. The Senate notes that such conduct by state bodies, especially the services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of Health, undermines citizens' confidence in the state. Perhaps it is, but please note one point. We are now talking about the main basic fact. Ladies and gentlemen, our citizens have done their job as never before. In the Polish nation there is such a characteristic that we generally oppose power. Well, we usually resisted the power of the possessor, the Nazi invader or this, let's call it the creeping communist invader. And this time, notice, everyone... Well, maybe we shouldn't all say 'cause mistakes were made. The fact that the Prime Minister met someone at the table and had an important conversation is not a mistake for the Prime Minister. It's a mistake of the service that didn't warn him. The Prime Minister has so many things on his mind that he may not even know... I'm sorry, maybe I was wrong. It didn't occur to him that we had to keep that distance. I don't want to defend anyone here, especially since the Prime Minister admitted his mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, raise your hand to those who have adapted perfectly to all the prohibitions and orders that have been announced during the epidemic and epidemic crisis. Whoever's innocent, let's go first... No, don't let him throw a rock, just raise his hand. Well, that's the way it is, ladies and gentlemen. Some characters are on a candlestick, they're treated like celebrities, they're still under surveillance. They get the smallest things out of them, and they're overreacted, but that's a different matter. Maybe this could cause a little demobilization, but fortunately, we're not watching this demobilization. The Polish people, who generally disagreed with the authorities, now agreed with the authorities. It doesn't matter if it happened because the authorities have well argued it, or because the nation has seen these busy beds and old men separated from respirators in some Western European countries. The important thing is that we've learned our lesson. That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen, there are already results in numbers. It is still too early to assess the overall actions of the authorities and individual institutions Well, we're certainly not going to judge how the nation behaved during this pandemic. But you can already see some effects. When it comes to disease and mortality, this curve isn't going up, it's flat. And it's impossible to say, it's impossible to tell. Well, you can try, just like in one of the media. I'll shut up about the name. In which 2 different curves were tried, curves on different scales, apply on the same drawing, graph. But let's get back to the point, ad rem. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you trying to convince the nation that if power makes mistakes, I've already told you, it could even be mistakes unconscioned. The rest of us can do the same? Oh, make sure you're angry, gather around a thousand people, don't wear masks, I'm sure it'll be healthy for you. Why are you doing this? Why spoil what is our achievement on a European scale or perhaps on a global scale? Responses to this pandemic will one day be assessed. Why are you demobilizing the nation? If you don't like power, at least like the nation. Don't try to make us the same number of diseases and the same number of deaths as in Western Europe. I'm almost done. I can see the signs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of our nation and our country, which did not have to decide who to disconnect the ventilator. I'd like to keep it that way, but this resolution won't contribute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u519	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was wondering. Not only after the last speech, but also after yesterday's debate during the committee's deliberations, but also after today's debate Do we happen to be discussing this resolution on the most important issue of our country and citizens' rights in Poland? Because we're talking about something that's related to the structure of a fundamental matter. We also talk at a special time. I'd like to remind you that tomorrow is June 4th and the 40th anniversary of August 80th. On 4 June, it is also a holiday, probably since 23 May 2013, if memory does not confuse me. I regret it because it's a holiday for me. And I regret it, because for a lot of people, especially politicians, it's not just a holiday, but it's a worse day. And this is a celebration of freedom and civil rights, a celebration of freedom and civil rights. Tell me, what is more important to a citizen than his rights? And in the context of this holiday tomorrow: here the senators are going out like before, yesterday at the committee meeting and criticizing this right resolution. Few of them defend those who violate these holy laws, holy civil rights, in Poland. A few days earlier we celebrated another celebration, a thirty-year-old local government. Because 30 years ago, after the victory of democracy, the rule of law and freedom, which was 40 years ago, as a second step, such a second milestone on the road to democracy we created Poland's small homelands, self-government Poland. And you criticize this resolution and defend those who behave like the PZPRs in the Polish People's Republic! I want to tell you that I remember two scenes from the history of my life. I'll tell those anecdotes. They're short. One. It's the '80s and I'm going with a friend in Poznań tonight. We notice the militia car far away from us then, as you remember, we called it a bitch and 2 policemen standing by it. A friend, older than me, I was a boy then, takes my hand and drags me down the side street. I ask, "Where are you dragging me?" And he says, "Let's not go this way, this street, because they can catch us." I say, "But what can they bother us for?" We're going home. They don't have to have a reason. They can bother us, he said, just like they might not bother us. And if they bother us, they can do nothing to us, they can write us down, but they can also lock us up. I didn't understand what he meant. Today, people who have been going out for several years, for 5 years, on the streets in Poland, in small towns, in medium-sized county cities, and also in large, here, in Warsaw... All they have to do is wear a T-shirt that says "Constitution," and they don't know if they're gonna get arrested or not. 'Cause today, the police are doing what the police were doing back then. She might have hooked up, but she didn't have to. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] And today, too. Maybe, but he doesn't have to. He doesn't have to, and he doesn't have to. You should've taken the pills. Here we go again. And what I'm saying is that in those days, their laws were better than our laws... God! ...their jobs were better than our jobs, their shops were better than our shops. Just as it is now starting to happen in Poland. Who cares? See? They're laughing. Just like now. [[Speech Off Record]] Second scene, from the current period. Recently, April, the anniversary of the Smolensk disaster. A scene that I didn't want to give faith to: the official government delegation, the party-government delegation, actually, because there were also officers there who didn't perform any government functions and positions. And there goes a man, alone, with a wreath, doesn't break any rules. In fact, it's a holiday, he's going to put a wreath under the monument. And suddenly there are 2 soldiers, not even policemen, but soldiers who try to make it difficult for him to get to this monument, but he breaks through, lays down a wreath, wants to bow down with dignity and pay tribute to these 96 great Poles who died in this catastrophe. What's going on? First of all, he's being pulled away from this monument. Secondly, this wreath of his is taken and carried out nowhere. And it turns out your wreaths are better than our wreaths. Is this the kind of Poland you want to build? Like this? Better than... This resolution wants to wake you from this dream! Mr. Marshal, what is... This resolution does not apply and must not apply only to the period of the epidemic! Oh, dear, dear... This resolution must make you aware that Poland is ours, yours and ours... Poles. ...that Poland is not better for you, but worse for us! It's not a political rally, it's a Senate. Proletarians, unite! If you can't figure it out and realize it... Oh, Jesus. ...that, I hope, after this presidential election, we will make it clear to you. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And so Robert Górski is a better cabaret player.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u521	I'm asking you to calm down. Senator Jerzy Wind has come forward for discussion. You're welcome... Kazimierz, not George, Mr. Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, Kazimierz. I'm so sorry, Senator. Mr. Marshal didn't recognize you in the mask. It's the mask. I'm so sorry. I'd like to say that there was no connection between me and George, so that... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Now I've realized what a faux pas I've committed, Professor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u522	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll be brief. After that weird speech from my previous speaker... After all, I will pray for your senator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u523	Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u524	Mr Marshal, first of all, I would like to request that committees be scheduled to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. I want one sentence to answer to the senator from the other side of the room. I will not mention, intentionally, a noble and venerable name What are the reasons why we have tabled this draft resolution. That is, to do everything for the welfare of the country and the welfare of its citizens, to respect the constitution and rights. No, no, no, no, no. You ask why. Not a legislative initiative... Well, Mr. Senator, I would very much like you to see Marshal Witek for example. removing from the freezer our legislative initiative from the freezer more than six months ago, improving the retirement existence of women in the year 1953. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u525	Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz will speak. Now, I need to get back to my post. Take the card. Card, card... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u526	Mr. Marshal, I'll be brief. I would like to object to the appointment of a time limit to be held at this meeting on a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u527	Thank you very much, senator. Only they are still enrolled in the discussion by Senator Marek Komorowski, remotely, and Senator Krzysztof Mróz, also remotely. Of course, gentlemen, you have your time, but please manage it reasonably cost-effectively. Mr. Senator Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u528	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I was brief to Senator Szejnfeld because he was throwing different dates, dates here, asking if we remember the 4th of June, what anniversaries, etc., etc. I'd just like to remind you that June 4th is also... the night of June 4th to June 5th, as a matter of fact... This is the night Mr. Jan Olszewski's government was called off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u529	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost from room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u530	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, to be honest, I was inspired by Senator Adam Szejnfeld's speech in such a bad way. There were many bad things, such that today's Poland is worse than what was in the Polish People's Republic, that today fear is to go out on the street, today fear is to pass by a police officer. After all, such a comparison to the Civic Militia has been made that you can stop anyone. That, of course, is not true. For five years everyone can demonstrate under the rule of law and justice and nobody gets hurt. I'd even say that the police in a special way to protesters... And there were a lot of these demonstrations, there was defending the constitution, there was a black march, there was an umbrella march, there were a lot of these situations when you were taking people out on the streets. We remember those famous protests at the Sejm, where even some of them lay down pretending to be beaten up. And nobody got hurt. The police behaved in an extremely responsible and prudent manner, in accordance with the law. And if she couldn't use her strength, she wouldn't use it. I'll remind you of your governments. Mr. Senator, you were a prominent activist of the Civic Platform, a parliamentarian, a MEP, a minister, and I will remind you how the police treated those who called Donald Tusk, the first word I will not quote, your government will overthrow... I'll remind you how the police behaved back then, how many people they wrote down. And what happened during the independence marches? More than once, the police were very determined to write down and stop people. It's worth remembering, Mr. Senator, how it was under the rule of the Civic Platform. Something like this hasn't been in the rule of law and justice in five years. It is us, Senators of Law and Justice, one might say, who have been intimidated before. When they yelled here that we would go to jail for voting in favour of some legal solution. And those people could have been sitting... We remember when sleep was nearly beaten. Cornel Morawiecki, as he walked from the Sejm. It's also worth remembering. I took part in some months, and I remember too. You mentioned a monument in Piłsudski Square. As some people jumped on this monument, they climbed these stairs, so that I would say... Because this monument has this structure. I remember they used to challenge standing and laying wreaths under that monument. I saw it because I actually participated in those monthlys where there were also such events. Remember that there were representatives of the highest state authorities, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Marshals of the Sejm, Senate. So it is natural that there must be some protection for these people. But believe me, in the official part, after the wreaths were laid, the flowers by the official delegations were not forbidden to go there, anyone could approach. This collection of flowers under Piłsudski's monument, under the monument of the victims or under the monument of President Lech Kaczyński simply took a few minutes, but then the delegations were scattered, scattered and everyone could put flowers there. It would be worth putting together, Mr. Senator, because they died there, as you said, not only representatives of the Law and Justice, but all parliamentary clubs. Then you would know how it is done and that every citizen has the right and opportunity on that day, the tenth, also on every other day to honor those who died. So please, Mr Senator Szejnfeld, do not compare today's Police to the Civic Militia and do not compare today's Poland, ruled just now by the Government of the United Right, to the Polish People's Republic, because it is simply an extraordinary scandal, an extraordinary lie, and the Senator of the Republic of Poland is so wrong to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u531	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Szejnfeld, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u532	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Incomparable situations cannot be compared. But if you recall specific situations, I will say that I am also reminded of the so-called. The march of independence, which you summoned, only reminds me of such a scene, when defenseless women, even sitting on the street, were beaten, kicked, and there was no response. And this better prosecutor of yours than ours is, she hasn't found the guilty till today. In many cases, we have the same thing. When a defenseless man, even a lonely man... There was a scene here in front of the Seym: a woman was standing, silent, not saying anything, not doing anything, just holding a flag. What's that? White and red. She kept a white and red flag, and she didn't do anything else. She was written down for it. You're the one talking about these scenes. You know, I don't even want to argue. If you hadn't used a word, a false word for lying, I wouldn't have spoken at all. You weigh your words. Situations are incomparable, but if they were, I can finally tell you and you, the better side than our worst side: you were going to the election 5 years ago with the slogan of a good change, and you are creating a worse change. And the embassy is who... Shh. ... In the Senate, that sort of thing... At the D.A.'s office...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u533	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Marcin Bosacki and Alexander Szwed. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. But since 2 proposals have been submitted, including opposition, we must decide this in the vote. Yes? Oh, that's where you tell me that... But were there conclusions? Yeah, they were. Oh, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. In that case, the vote will take place after the committee meeting. No, no... The proposals must be addressed to the committee and the motion must be voted on later... Yeah, we get it, but the vote's gonna be after... Now we're going to the committee. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. No, no, this is... [[Speech in the background of the recording]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u534	The point is that we are now going to vote on this motion to refer the project to the committee to be held at this meeting. 'Cause that's what Senator Bosacki was bringing in... And Senator Skurkiewicz filed an objection. So that's what we have to vote on before we go to committee, at this meeting... [[Speech in the background of the recording]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u535	Mr. Marshal Pęk, according to the legislators, the procedure is slightly different. Let me read it. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. If there was a request for a deadline for the preparation of an additional report... Now we're getting to the bottom of this. Senator Bosacki has requested that the committees draw up an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting, and Senator Skurkiewicz, as I understand it, has submitted an application against it. We must therefore vote on this proposal. Yes? So just like I wanted to do from the beginning... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I just didn't express it with the formula. Mr. Marshal, I believe you wanted to direct the draft resolution to the committee immediately. I wanted to vote. But because I was... There's been a motion for and against... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, that's what he's here for. Senior legislators It's not age, it's internship. They were also on alert. So that the procedure... the purity of the legislative procedure has been preserved. Given the fact that there are two conclusions... one motion, Senator Bosacki, and the opposition of Senator Skurkiewicz. We are voting on this proposal. Who's in favour of Senator Bosacki's motion? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 44 against. [[Voting No 39]] The motion has been accepted. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law... But Senator Tyszkiewicz, based on Art. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (8) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure has requested that this item be removed from the agenda and discussed at the next Senate meeting. Bravo! [[Applause]] If... I'm gonna ask the senator to speak. If I do not hear an objection, I will consider this request to be accepted. Mr. Marshal, I'm just here on a formal matter. I don't think Mr. Wadim Tyszkiewicz has filed that motion yet. But he was going to. He put it in writing, and now he's going to report it orally. [[Mr. Marshal, I have the impression that the Senate is beginning to apply such an old, old system, anecdotal rule that paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure states that the Marshal is always right, and if the Marshal is wrong, then see paragraph 1.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, I would like to point out that Mr. Marshal is always right, not because of the rules of procedure, but he is. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal took note of Senator Tyszkiewicz's intention, therefore, in conducting a logical process, he concluded that he could make such an offer to the High House. As you can see, she has gained acceptance. I'd be legally qualified to be an inept attempt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Excuse me, that conclusion actually was, I took it with me to read it, but I had to run up the stairs to vote. So... ...Well, I didn't expect to be the hero of the day. Oh, please... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (8) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure shall be deleted from the agenda of item 17th, i.e. a second reading of the draft law amending the law of. Code of Criminal Procedure, and considering it for the next session of the Sejm. Position 12th... Bravo! Senate! Senate, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Senator... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Excuse me? I'll think about it. Then think about it. And finally, I'll tell you. I don't know how the ethics committee works here, but such rudeness, such impudence, so many sad words I've heard here, it's how I live, I've never met anything like this before. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sir, never mind, never mind... I wish I hadn't... I'm calling, Senator... I don't know what happened before, but once again, the ethics committee should be working hard here. I wish you'd been here. You ruined my show because I wanted to free you from the point of time to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, I'm kidding, of course. I mean... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Marshal... What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u537	Thank you very much... This isn't a show. ...on hold. But what's the hold-up? Mr. Senator, thank you very much. No, I'm sorry. Really, it's about culture... The discussion is closed. We learn from the best. I'm calling... Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator... This is the Senate of the Republic of Poland and I call on you to hold back your emotions. In view of the fact that legislative proposals have been tabled, I am announcing a time-out. 23.50. I've chosen the version proposed by Senator Gogach. Seriously, that's when the committees need it. Messages, please. That's not true. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u538	First Communication: 5 minutes after the announcement of the break, a meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media will be held on proposals submitted to the draft resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Second Communication: 10 minutes after the announcement of the break, a meeting will be held between the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the proposals submitted to the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality before the law at the time of the epidemic. These committee meetings will be held in the meeting room. [[Adjournment from 23 minutes 19 to 23 minutes 51]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u539	Please take your seats. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will be convened on 17 and 18 June 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We begin to consider item 17 on the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 129. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously at its meeting on 26 May a draft resolution on amendments to the Senate committees and recommended that the High House adopt this resolution. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismiss Senator Maria Koc from the Committee on Culture and Media and Senator Stanisław Karczewski from the Health Committee. The Senate of the Republic of Poland elects Senator Maria Koc to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u541	Thank you very much, senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? If not, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 91 for, 4 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 111 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u542	Thank you very much. The Commission proposes that the amendments contained in points 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 be adopted. After the vote, no one voted in favour, there were four votes against and three senators abstained. It does not recommend the proposals made by Senator Kopcia, because they would create a mess in these laws, which were recently amended so-called. With a 3.0 shield. Now the next version of the shield will be processed, you will be able to make these corrections and this will be a natural solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u543	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak again? No. I would like to remind you that during the discussion you submitted proposals to Senator Tadeusz Kopeć, and the committee's rapporteur was also Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. N.B.: Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to exempt revenue from the revenue from buildings established for the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 December 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 48 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 2 seeks to give the intention of the legislator correctly and ensures the linguistic correctness of the provision which limits the avoidance of corporation tax due to deductions of hypothetical own financing costs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 45 against, with 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 4 correctly defines the relationship between the concept of service activities and the concepts of catering activities and trade activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 5 ensures compliance with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 6 sets the limit for the permissible amendment of the implementing provisions temporarily maintained in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 7 means a properly revised annex. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the method of calculating the annual gross domestic product. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 115 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Act on the method of calculating the annual gross domestic product value. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it asked for the bill to be rejected and a minority of committees requested amendments to the bill; Senate printing No 110 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee on the rejection of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 113 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 121 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 122 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. We return to the ninth item on the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 123 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context, signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on the Environment have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 124 A and 124 B. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental assessments in a cross-border context, signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018. The eleventh point will be later when the legislators complete the preparation of the documents. Therefore, I would like to point out that we are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolutions on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. After the second reading, the Senate sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print 48/72 X. I would like to inform the senators that Senator Marek Borowski has submitted a letter informing you that his amendments contained in paragraphs 4 and 5 of print No 48/72 X have been withdrawn. We proceed to the third reading. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Get in the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u544	Mr. Senator Borowski. In that case, does Senator Borowski know that I would like to thank the senator for withdrawing Amendments 4 and 6... 5. 4 and 5. I'm sorry, 4 and 5... because after we changed the rules, if we didn't withdraw them, there might be a change in the rules of the game during the game, which would be a change in the committee's personal compositions, which wouldn't be consistent with a certain tradition that we have. I would therefore like to thank you very much at this point for withdrawing these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u545	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Eight amendments were tabled during the second reading. Of these 8 amendments, Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8 were recommended positively, Amendment 4 was assessed negatively, all of which, as the Marshal informed, and Senator Kwiatkowski thanked for it, Amendments 4 and 5 were withdrawn, so the remaining amendments, namely No 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8, which have a positive recommendation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u547	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Legislative proposals have been tabled by Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Marek Borowski. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I would remind you that Senator Marek Borowski withdrew his conclusions, paragraphs 4 and 5 from print number 48/72 X. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? If not, we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, from print No 48/72 X, followed by the adoption of the draft, print No 48/72 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 deletes the provision setting the time-frame for examining a constructive request for cancellation of the marshal and the provision limiting the possibility of such an application. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 2 empowers the Marshal to lay down the rules for proceedings in the event of confidential proceedings, provides that the reasons for the request for the adoption of confidentiality proceedings are presented at the meeting of the Senior Convention, and eliminates the institution of closed committee meetings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 49 votes against, 46 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 3 empowers the Senate Bureau to lay down rules for organising consultations for the Senate and its bodies. So far, the bureau has only defined the rules for organising scientific advice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 votes against, 1 against, 45 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 4 and amendment 5 are withdrawn. Amendment 6 clarifies the provision specifying the circle of persons entitled to attend Senate meetings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 votes against, 3 against, 43 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 7 is based on the fact that the Senate is deprived of the right to consent to the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 votes against, 1 against, 45 abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 8 shortens the vacathio legis of provisions concerning the appointment and dismissal by the Senate of a member of the pedophilia committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 votes against, no one opposed, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 votes against, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 97 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Culture and Media and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 125 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u548	Ladies and gentlemen, a meeting of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture took place at the end of the session. The majority of the committee's votes are against the motion to reject the proposal for rejection of Amendment No 1 and to reject Amendment No 2. We recommend the adoption of a uniform text...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u549	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by senators Alexander Szwed and Jan Maria Jackowski. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments, in the order of the provisions of the draft. After voting on the amendments tabled, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution - print no. 125 S - in full with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed to the vote on Senator Alexander Swede's motion to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 55 senators voted, 5 were in favour, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment one, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One vote has not yet been cast remotely. Please state the results of the vote. 53 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 64]] Let me remind you that, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, senators taking part in the sitting are required to vote. Amendment two, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 56 senators voted, 6 were in favour, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 65]] We proceed to the vote on the resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 52 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality before the law at the time of the epidemic. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged the committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 127 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u550	Mr. Marshal, thank you. During the plenary session, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions examined the proposals submitted. The Commission did not support the motion to reject the draft resolution in the vote. They supported the request for the only amendment tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u551	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by the senators Alexander Szwed and Marcin Bosacki. Senator Marcin Bosacki was also the committee's rapporteur after first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. Following the vote on the proposed amendment, we will proceed with the vote on the adoption of the resolution We proceed to the vote on Senator Alexander Swede's motion to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 56 senators voted against, 6 against, 50 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendment tabled by Senator Marcin Bosacki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 53 Senators voted, 50 for, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 52 senators voted, 50 for, 2 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution calling for compliance with the principle of equality before the law at the time of the epidemic. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 11th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Your senators in room 217 and 182, please report to the senators of your chambers. Senators of the Secretaries, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators who are participating in the meeting remotely, please report via the chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? The first one written down is Senator Jerzy Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, On 26 May, you accused Polish President Rafał Trzaskowski of supporting the Russian Federation's efforts to block the construction of the channel by measuring. The proof of this, in your opinion, is the support by Rafał Trzaskowski of 21 green demands of the Green Party. So I'll remind you. that the Green Party is a Polish party with its Members, so it makes no sense to identify it with Russia. So I'm asking you to point out other evidence to the merits of this accusation. If you have such knowledge, you also have an obligation to inform the Polish security services. Have you fulfilled that duty? I will also remind you that this is not your first insinuation that Poles who have reservations about how to implement this investment work for the Russians. On 12 October 2016, you made similar accusations against Polish environmental organizations. I also demanded evidence at the time, but you didn't answer my charges. I hope you're not avoiding responsibility for your own words this time, and if you don't have any evidence, I'm asking you to apologize for an unsubstantiated accusation. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the construction of the channel by measure is carried out with the support of almost all political forces in Poland, both in the Sejm and in the Senate. The investment was supported, among others. all Members and Senators of the Civic Platform. I will also remind you that the PO-PSL government has drawn up complete documentation, forwarded it to the European Commission and prepared a timetable for the construction of the channel in 2014. The PiS government has shifted this date to 2022, but it also seems unrealistic, as so far there have not even been tenders for two of the three stages of implementation of this investment. Worse still, the current project is very different from the one that was prepared by the governments of PO-PSL between 2007 and 2015. Until today, for example. organisations, institutions and applicants and stakeholders, mainly environmental, have received no response. Several conflicting environmental decisions have been issued. So we don't know. whether the channel is built according to environmental requirements. This is also the case with the European Commission. First, Minister, all doubts need to be clarified and then the project should be implemented. This is what the law and the sense of responsibility for spending public money require. There is even greater concern about the economic justification, or rather the absence of it. In the project from the time of the PO-PSL government, the main objective of building the channel by measure was to increase freight transport to the port of Elbląg. The current government has changed this priority and the project to build the channel does not even provide for an investment to be made to the port of Elbląg. The media declarations that it is different are contradicting the documents, including the Ministry's reply to many of my questions on this matter. The last one came from March 12 of this year. The channel will therefore be a freeway without a exit. In the present form, there is therefore no economic justification for measuring the channel by measure, as it does not lead to any port. Minister, I have been measuring the channel for 25 years and I am a declared supporter of its construction as an opportunity to activate Elbląg and the Vistula Subregion. But I don't approve of actions that threaten the natural environment or the construction of a canal to nowhere where the economic objective has been replaced by some unrealized military objective. I know that the candidate for President Rafał Trzaskowski also has similar doubts. So a cold analysis of this information requires asking: for whom and for what purpose is this channel being built? That's what I'm asking you. On what grounds do you accuse a presidential candidate of pursuing Russian intentions to block the construction of the channel by measuring it? With this knowledge, did you inform the Polish security services about it? Second question: what concrete measures have the Russian Federation taken to block the construction of the channel by measuring? Did these actions stop this investment? And if so, when and for what time? Third: when will the conclusions, complaints and comments on the first stage of the channel be considered by measure? Who will bear the responsibility if one of them is one that can undermine the investment work already carried out? Fourth: what documents are based on the economic justification for the construction of the channel by measure, since it does not end in any port? Please indicate this document. Fifth: Will the waterway in Elbląg seaport be adapted to channel parameters? And if not, does the economic justification take this option into account? And sixth: is it a condition for the extension of the canal to the port of Elbląg to take over these waters by the maritime office? This suggests the final answer to one of the questions about the construction of this channel. Mr. Marshal, one more brief statement. Second, right? Here you go, another five minutes. The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, With great concern I received information that the Polish state saves on local governments and education. In the case of my city, Elbląg, this is the sum of PLN 1 million 151 thousand 108. This amount is the difference between the amount of the subsidy indicated in the draft budget of Elbląg and the measures finally granted to the city. It is no excuse to rely on a reduction in the standards for 1 student, since it does not change the fact that the local government will have to find this amount in its own budget. I ask you to restore the subsidy to the amount declared by the government and provide the basis for designing the city's budget for the current year. I would like to point out that the fulfilment of this call is a minimum of expectations, because in fact subsidies have not met the expenditure of maintaining education for years. Each year, the funding of education from the city is PLN 30.55 million, or 40%. .50% expenditure on this area. Between 2017 and 2020 this amount amounts to nearly PLN 370 million, of which 1/3 is co-financing in 2020. This is all the more painful because it is the year of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is linked to the drastic decline in tax revenues to the city budget. Prime Minister, you have repeatedly said that the Polish state will support local governments in the fight against the pandemic. So please restore the original amount of the subsidy, which will not mean aid, but at least it will not mean deepening the problems of the local government. I would also ask Elbląg, for example, to analyze educational subsidies for other local authorities and correct the decision to reduce them. I also ask you to answer the following questions. In how many local governments is the education subsidy lower than the one declared for the draft budget? What is the total value of these reductions? How much has this situation changed the Prime Minister's decisions after the intervention of local governments, other environments, as well as Members and Senators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u553	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u554	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Sport. Dear Minister, I would like to draw attention to the disturbing information with which my office was asked about the principles of the award of Polish basketball players • principles that depend on the signing of a contract with the state-owned company Energa, in which they would declare not to speak about equality of non-hetero-normative people, LGBT. From the information I have received, it appears that due to the fact that basketball players held a high eighth place in the World Cup in September 2019. The Polish Basketball Association has committed to pay high bonuses. They were to be subject to the signing of the agreement, which contained a ban on speaking on non-hetero-normative equality of people, LGBT. The money was paid out of the account of the main sponsor of the association, the state-owned Energa company, only those athletes who did not speak on the equality of LGBT people in Polish society, and in particular did not support their right to marry. The part of the contract in question is incompatible with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that everyone in respect of the law is equal, that everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities and that no one can be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. The violation of human rights contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is unacceptable, and therefore I would like to ask whether similar discriminatory provisions of LGBT persons or other provisions indicating discrimination between persons based on national, religious, racial backgrounds apply in any other sponsorship agreements between Polish sports unions, the Polish Olympic Committee and sponsors of the State Treasury companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-03-senat-11-3.u555	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eleventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 11th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Meeting adjourned at 0 minutes 41]]
