ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u1	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The year in which the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda on the creation of social services centres is in place is ending. The Centre for Social Services can be set up at local level. These are coordinating and integrating structures for all social services provided. This will increase the access of residents to such services, and this will enable local authorities to respond more accurately and comprehensively to the growing and changing needs of residents. Creating centers is an additional possibility, it is not an obligation. I know there's a competition in the ministry, there's service centers in our country. I would like to ask what it looks like, how many municipalities have submitted such an initiative, how many service centres have been created this year and if we can assess how they work. This is a very short time, but I would like to ask if this initiative of the President just worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u2	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock. But I guess the extras are later. Excuse me. We'll ask the Minister now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u3	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, a law on the establishment and coordination of social services centres was adopted. It is a solution at local, innovative, pilot and above all aimed at coordinating activities in the wider social policy area of the municipality. Above all, it is about a broader view of social assistance services, volunteering, support for people with disabilities, but also support for families who are widely understood. Social service centres are a new organisational unit. They can be created in two ways, in two ways: from the transformation of existing social assistance centres into social services centres - then the centre will function in the area of one commune, taking over the entire current social assistance centre - either by agreement of two or more municipalities and then providing such services to several municipalities which have concluded an agreement. The coordination of services in relation to social services centres is primarily the coordination of social policy, family policy, promotion of health protection, promotion of culture, education, family policies, but also the promotion of people with disabilities. The aim of the Social Services Centre is to integrate and coordinate services provided by various local service providers, both public and non-public. Social service centres mainly respond to the needs of residents. Service centres can be addressed to the local community or more widely, depending on agreements concluded, including inter-city centres. Of course, their functioning for residents is free of charge, they are of a helping nature. A wide range of volunteering is also concentrated around social services centres. What is the situation with regard to social services centres? Currently in the country - and I will remind you that the programme has actually started functioning this year - there are five centres of social services. [[Game in the O.R.]] Could you please silence the conversation? Minister of Family and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: The centres were established: in the Lubuskie voivodship - one, in the Mazowieckie voivodship - one, in the Silesian voivodship - two, in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship - one. December 31st Ub. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy announced a competition addressed to local governments with a budget of PLN 100 million with the possibility of using four types of social services centres for operation. The first type concerns social service centres operating in one municipality. The centre is based on the transformation of the social assistance centre. Here are such sub-categories: municipalities up to 5 thousand. residents, municipalities from 5 thousand. Up to 100,000. residents and municipalities over 100,000. residents. The second type is social service centres operating in the area of two municipalities or more, based on an inter-city agreement, which I have already mentioned. The third type is social service centres operating in the area of municipalities over 100,000. residents who are created by the creation of a new organizational unit. And the fourth type is social services centers operating in cities on the rights of the county, except for voivodship cities, because they can use third-type centres. What's the outcome of the contest? Some of these tasks are still ongoing. In response to the competition 52 local authorities submitted applications for PLN 149 million. Let me remind you that the budget that we had secured for this task is PLN 100 million. At the moment, in the first round of the competition 21 grant contracts were signed for the amount of PLN 62 million, 12 projects (the bell) are in the process of signing contracts for the amount of PLN 32 million and three applications were submitted in the second round, one of which is already signed. So that the amount of PLN 100 million will be spent, 34 centres of social services will be created from the contracts we sign. First of all, attention should be paid to the fact that this is a pilot solution. After this pilot solution, after the evaluation of this programme, we will want to create a statutory solution using the experience of this 3-year programme, so that such centres can function on the basis of the experience gained across the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u5	Thank you very much, Marshal. The social service centres are a new model, a modern model of social policy pursued by local government units, because, so to speak, decisions are made as to how this social policy is implemented to a large extent in the field of financial assistance. Of course, as the Minister said, we know from the law that NGOs are basically those institutions, organisations which, in the case of a shared service centre, form part of this centre, cooperate. I wanted to ask the Minister: Are there any signals? As I have come across the NGO's view that, apart from the model solution that builds civil society and such a true bond (the Bell), it is also necessary to pay more attention to the sources of funding for NGOs to bring potential to the centres. Is it possible, after good piloting, that such centres are not optional? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u6	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u7	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! To answer your question, for which I thank you very much, first of all, I would like to say that optional solutions are being created in order to develop the best possible model of further work and further functioning. Social service centres are very much needed, while developing a model to make it the ideal model to which we aim, and to make the local authorities happy, and above all to make the inhabitants happy, among others. NGOs or voluntary organisations are based on this piloting, information gathering, evaluation of the programme. And in conclusion - because this is a 3-year programme, which we finance with this 100 million PLN - the information collected is intended for us to introduce a legal, permanent solution. This is the whole point of piloting, because this money should primarily serve the inhabitants, serve the Poles and Poles, but also serve the introduction of permanent system solutions, because it also gives the system of funding to local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will now be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today since hours. 13 We will all follow with tension what the Prime Minister will do at the European Council. Will he listen to the voice of entrepreneurs who speak like Leviathan, that veto is a march to the national disaster? Will he listen to the voice of local government officials who treat the budget with the Reconstruction Fund as a Polish state right? Will he listen to the voice of the county Poland? The real worry is intertwined with rage everywhere. These are emotions because we know that the game is about our being or not being. Therefore, the question to the Prime Minister: What decision will he make at the summit? Will there be a Polish veto against money for Poles? The agenda for the summit is also climate policy. It is a decision to limit the emissions of the Polish economy by 55% by 2030 and indirectly the decision to adopt 2050 as a neutral issue within the framework of the green order. And here is a fundamental question about the cost of transformation and the effectiveness of our negotiations to gain as much money as possible for these transformations. Instead of fighting for money for a fair transition, the government is fighting the rule of law and risking the financial collapse of the economy. Yet the whole of Europe will meet the 2050 target. And the question arises as to whether we can afford to be outside the neutrality of 2050 in a modernized Europe. The biggest Polish companies: Orlen, PGE, declare the achievement of this goal. Entrepreneurs see an opportunity in this challenge. This will also be served by the Fund for Reconstruction of Modernization or Fair Transformation. At the summit we expect acceptance of the budget and the directional, negotiated decision [[♪ The bell ♪]] Achievements in 2030 55% emission reductions. What will you do, Prime Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u10	Thank you very much, sir. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak, will answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! First of all, let us start by saying that the negotiations that you are talking about are still ongoing. I think the last few days have allowed us to look at them with, say, a realistic amount of optimism. We are all looking for a reasonable approach from all partners within the European Community. But, of course, this must be within the framework of the law, in particular the original EU law, within the framework of the Treaties, and in line with the July conclusions of the Council of the European Union. Let me put it this way, in his question, he referred to a few things that I mostly agree with as a representative of the government. When you talk about, let's call it a green deal, a very ambitious emission reduction plan, it's obviously a huge opportunity, and I agree. Please note, however, that there are also major challenges to the green deal. The Member spoke about listening to the voice of entrepreneurs. We in the Ministry of Development, on the government side, are still in dialogue with entrepreneurs. And you mentioned even one particular organization: Leviathan. She, as it happens, also has a lot of representatives of the car industry, car manufacturers. Speaking, because, as I say, we are in such a dialogue, they are also emphasising of course the huge opportunities, but also the huge challenges associated with this very ambitious climate policy, in which Poland wants to join, but also emphasising something extremely important. And this is important both from the perspective of Poland, and it is this district Poland, and the big city Poland, in general one whole Poland, as well as from the perspective of entrepreneurs. To impose the same objective on countries like Poland, on the one hand, but also, on the other hand, I do not know Malta, Portugal, Ireland, is not entirely fair if we do not give these individual countries the tools to achieve these goals. Other tools, other measures will need a country like Poland, in which we still have, and very good that we have, industry. In many countries - it is Britain that comes out of the Union, it may not be the best example - e.g. deindustrialisation took place in the UK. In the southern countries, heavy industry is much less. We have a certain structure of the economy and, therefore, what we stress in the energy transition is primarily justice. And the justice of this transition cannot be based on the same treatment of such different actors, so different Member States. Therefore, the key here for the negotiating position of Poland in these areas is this approach: well, we can set up for transformational purposes, energy transformation, but above all this transformation must be fair and must take into account costs, and it is not only costs for entrepreneurs, but also social costs, because social costs are huge. I will refer again to the example of England, which I know is no longer in the Union, but this is, in my opinion, a very good example, because I know this country a little bit, so it is easier for me to give it too. In the 1980s, the process of deindustrialisation, also in these mining regions, is still mentioned today as extremely, extremely expensive socially. Please remember that we have regions of the country that will simply require great support, big investments, and in these negotiations the Polish government must, and wants to do everything possible to provide resources for a fair transformation and support for those regions that will need it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u13	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, you are right that we need more money for a broadly understood transformation. But that was the time when there were negotiations on the budget, and I did not hear the Prime Minister protest strongly when funds were taken from the so-called fund. fair transformation for mining regions. After all, we were supposed to have a lot more at first, and then it turned out that we had only 3.5 billion left, and today the government's rule of law is a problem. Today the Prime Minister says he wants to veto the budget, the reconstruction fund, he doesn't want the money from the recovery fund. I'm asking you, don't run away from a specific answer. Today, the Prime Minister will make his decision in a few hours. In Silesia in mining regions, the inhabitants of Poland are waiting for measures in terms of transformation, we want to manage this money, it is the only chance for Poland, and you are fleeing. The mining platform (The Bell) is a powerful money that we can use to develop our regions. It's about self-government. And what are the students of higher education who have so far gone abroad and been educated and had open borders for all European Union countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u14	Minister, please answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, All I have to do is repeat what I said at the beginning of my answer. Negotiation is ongoing. I do not know if you have had many negotiations in your life, but you do not start by telling the other side exactly how they will end. That's not an option, and you know it. Then I would act, and we would all act to the detriment of Poland, and we should not do so. Negotiation is ongoing. We seem to have reason to be optimistic. First of all, we want the agreement reached to be in line with the original EU law and in the spirit of the July 2020 Council conclusions of the European Union, namely a few months ago. And as I said, we believe that the sensible approach of all the partners within the European Community will lead to a solution that will be good for the European economy and, of course, the Polish economy is an integral part of the European economy. On the other hand, I have the impression that we really agree more than we disagree. That's why I think I can end my speech right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the questions on current issues have this to do with the fact that, after the question asked, one can expect an answer. But for that answer to come, it has to be giving that answer. He just showed up. You're the minister, all right. You're welcome. I'm gonna wait a minute for the Minister to take a breather. Mr President, come forward and ask the question, and don't worry about taking a breather from the Minister, because he should have been a little earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to start with three basic statements. Firstly, I would like to say that there will be no policy in this question, I do not want to go back to history, I do not want to say who is responsible for the shipbuilding industry, because everyone in this room, including my formation, is responsible for this. Second thing. I don't want to discuss ownership issues, because I'm glad you're a minister, these decisions, as far as ownership issues are concerned, they just fall into the ministry and explain that the board has taken them, the FRS has taken them, let's give up completely. And the third case. Let's agree that between Szczecin and Świnoujście, however, is 120 km on land, so let's stop discussing that 200 redundant workers have the opportunity and job offers in Szczecin, because the Minister knows very well that today, when building S3, in the absence of a tunnel, it takes 2.5 hours to get to Szczecin at all. Considering these three things for granted, my questions are like this. First of all, are the decisions of the Minister regarding the sale of the plant in Świnoujście? Because before that, the Ministry of Economy was responsible for this. Second thing. Are the decisions of the Ministry of National Defence? Because I will remind you that Gryfia has certificates on trade in military-purpose products and technologies and is therefore part of an economic mobilisation programme. Thirdly, can you explain to the Minister whether the value of the organized part of the company is less than the value of scrap and land itself? Because the question is why you fire people before you sell or find a buyer. It's four o'clock. Is it true that the entire program for the transfer of assets from the yard site is being prepared? Another thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was the idea of a green yard and scrapping ships. Question: "Can't this shipyard in Świnoujście be used for this?" And the last point in this part is the issue of mortgages that are on the yard in Świnoujście. In this case, can the Minister give us information on whose cause and how much?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u18	Thank you so much for asking the question. Mr Marek Grybarczyk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will answer them. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The situation, which concerns the shipbuilding industry, is widely known in the area of both Poland and Europe and the whole world. The next year will be for the shipbuilding industry - and everyone shows it - the most difficult since the end of World War II due to the complete halt of new orders in terms of building units. Therefore, most shipyards are re-qualified for renovation. This is to be done by a green order, which means zero emissions. In this way, first and foremost German shipyards, which are the main drivers here in terms of building units, will reclassify their activities. In this situation, and in light of what is happening in the Polish shipbuilding industry, and in the private and public sectors, we absolutely need to apply a restructuring programme, and it is not a restructuring programme that has lasted for many years, which was the fault of many governments, that what was being sold was simply overeating. I think that the Member will not question the construction of a new dock, so assets which are absolutely not criticised by anyone and are the only element that can make the shipbuilding industry in Szczecin preserved. Since this project must be implemented on the basis of a private investor's test, i.e. an assessment of whether there has been unlawful State aid, Gryfia must raise funds for the implementation of this project. Such a solution is absolutely to cling to the Świnoujście shipyard, which is dedicated to port operations. We've had a double increase in port transhipments since 2014. We have a huge concept or the need to build a whole facility for offshores. This is an area that is extremely suitable for the execution of such orders. This is not enough, we assume, that there should be a 1/3 increase in port transhipments that really affect the development of the region and, above all, the increase in the number of jobs. In our actions, we have primarily applied the social approach and extensive cooperation in terms of reorganisation, so all employees have been offered a job in Szczecin under the same conditions. Those who don't decide to do so will be paid for their leave and additionally their leave equivalent. Not much, they can still apply for a job at the shipyard. Therefore, the whole package of activities is intended to bring cash to the yard and carry out all modernisation and hydrotechnical works in the field of the placement of the new dock. The construction of a new dock on which an agreement has already been signed between the FRS, Szczecin Shipyard or SPP and Gryfia is to begin next year, all decisions have been taken. This dock will be implemented in SPP or SSN - I hope that the name will return - which will deliver orders for all co-operatives or most co-operatives who today suffer from a lack of labour in the market, mainly shipbuilding. This is therefore the only rational action in the context of the modernisation measures undertaken. The decision of the Management Board, which was presented to the General Assembly, was accepted and entered into force. All the activities of the companies that will finance and implement this investment have also been accepted. The construction of the new dock also gained acceptance of the general meeting of shareholders. We are convinced that this is the only way to preserve the shipbuilding industry in Szczecin without loss to the industry when it comes to Świnoujście, because this is a site dedicated to port investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will also ask the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I didn't get a lot of questions, but I wanted to ask - if I could, I would ask for a written answer - about one thing, because I'm a little surprised that these port areas are now to be in shipbuilding. Is the Minister aware that you are de facto acting against the State Treasury if the terms of this tender are to prohibit shipbuilding? How do you know if there will be port activities or shipbuilding activities? In my opinion, this is a big mistake, because if we are already selling, we should give full freedom, all the more so that it is illusory, that some entrepreneurs will be banned from carrying out shipbuilding activities. And then there's the other thing. I just don't get it, and here I have a big appeal to the Minister. Why fire employees today if we don't know if there's even a buyer on this property? And what happens if the buyer doesn't find it? We're gonna hire someone back there, are we gonna play it back? It's just a mismanagement. I respect the decisions you make because you own it, but it's only a few months before you find the buyer -- there's a few months to sign contracts -- you can possibly do the firing procedure. Or it may turn out that the new buyer will simply need workers, so these people will naturally have jobs. Why are you doing this? I really appeal - Minister, you are from Szczecin - bring these people back to work before Christmas, because these statements can simply be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, I think there's only one answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u23	Mr. Speaker! As you know perfectly well, with regard to the profit and loss account, the only way to get a good price is to prepare the land for investment, for sale to the future investor. As a result, Gryfia took on the burden, and in this way it secured it, because there is nothing to hide that it has spent a very large amount of money on social security for all workers, thus releasing the land for investment, because it would absolutely limit the possibility of disposal of the land. The main objective is therefore that the area could be immediately ready for investment, without the possibility or the need to negotiate. Therefore, we do not dispose of ZORG or Gryfia does not dispose of ZORG, but begins to dispose of the land which is owned by Gryfia, is not burdened, is free of any obligations. This is the last area left within the framework of... And it's the only way to do it. On the other hand, putting ZORG into tender without a solution to labour and social matters automatically reduces the price of this company, because in this way the future investor has to cover all kinds of costs connected with the social and social side that Gryphia is taking on today, being responsible, and offers everyone, once again, to work under the same conditions under which they have contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u24	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next Question Time. Mr Jan Łopata will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u25	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! During yesterday's debate on the motion to dismiss the Deputy Prime Minister, the head of the Party of Law and Justice was formulated according to us a very accurate analysis of the way in which the Polish United Right camp ruled, namely, you rule the state by division and embezzlement, but also, what needs to be added, you have mastered the principle of exploitation and rejection. Farmers are the best example of this. This professional group, this social group, probably like no other, believed you so much and supported you in the parliamentary elections, but also the presidential candidate for Mr Andrzej Duda. So? Yeah, nothing. Minister! The situation in Polish agriculture is tragic, catastrophic. The prices of agricultural products defy dignity, it is the crying and gnashing of the teeth of poultry producers, pork, vegetables, fruit. Prices are one thing, but it's also about too. Yesterday's request from the Lublin Voivodeship: help to manage 800 t carrots, help. You received a mechanism and good money in 2015 under the Rural Development Programme, but according to the principle already mentioned here it was first necessary to take over the implementation institution, to settle theirs. What's the effect? Exactly. A year ago, in October 2019, the predecessor of Minister Puda, Minister Ardanowski left no illusions about the effectiveness of the work of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and its management. Here I quote: not even a local Member will help incompetent workers. I don't think there's anything to add about how the recruitment system worked there. 2 days ago, at the meeting of the Sejm Agriculture Committee, Minister Puda said (The Ring) - and I quote here - the completion of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period as soon as possible and the full, effective spending of the funds provided for in this programme are my priorities. Minister! For this reason, I ask you to answer the question precisely: How many and what actions have been left undeveloped, unfulfilled farmers' applications, and why is this money not working in the Polish countryside so far, only in Brussels banks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to Minister Anna Gembicka, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u27	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In total, around 4.6 million contracts and decisions amounting to PLN 43.5 billion were concluded under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 as at 6 December this year, and 73% were contracted. the measures of the programme. Support from the RDP received 1 147 003 beneficiaries. Nearly PLN 32.5 billion was paid out as part of the operations carried out. In accordance with Rule n+3 the funds from the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 may be spent by the end of 2023. The expenditure required for 2020 has already been achieved. The extent to which these funds are spent is also monitored on an ongoing basis and there is currently no risk of losing them. 17.3 billion zlotys remain to be contracted. At the same time, it should be noted that the proposals submitted in 2020 for instruments such as agri-environment-climate action, organic farming, payments to areas with natural constraints or other specific constraints, animal welfare, bonuses for young farmers, modernisation of farms, restructuring of small farms or aid to farmers particularly affected by the COVID-19 crisis are pending. In view of the above, a significant proportion of these measures will be contracted in the near future. Importantly, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development immediately took action to introduce the solutions expected by the applicants of the programme, in connection with the outbreak of the pandemic of Coronavirus. it has been possible to restore the time limits for the implementation of certain activities during the grant process when those time limits have been exceeded in relation to the pandemic of Coronavirus. This means that the actual amount of the contracted funds will be much higher and, in addition, applicants will be able to receive this support, even if, due to the pandemic, they have exceeded the deadlines, e.g. related to the provision of documentation. The response to the difficult situation caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus was also the introduction of a new support instrument, which I mentioned earlier, into the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 - aid to farms particularly affected by the COVID-19 crisis. The conditions for granting this temporary support in conjunction with the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development shall be laid down in Article. 39b of Regulation No 1305/2013. The Member State is to direct the aid and address it to the most affected entities in the COVID-19 crisis by laying down eligibility conditions and, where appropriate, selection criteria which are objective and non-discriminatory. According to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, the allocation of actions: Exceptional temporary support for farmers, micro and small and medium-sized enterprises particularly affected by the COVID-19 crisis may amount to a maximum of 2% the allocation of RDPs for the period 2014-2020. In the case of Poland, we used the entire available allocation, i.e. EUR 273 379 123, including the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development accounts for almost EUR 174 million and the national co-financing from the state budget slightly over EUR 99 million. The aid in question is intended to compensate part of the income lost by COVID-19 and is, of course, intended to encourage the maintenance of existing activities. For this action, as I said, we have allocated the maximum amount that was available. The selection of applications took place from 9 September to 7 October 2020 and the funds will be paid to farmers this month. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The measure received 195 608 aid applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask you to ask Minister Marek Sawicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u29	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If it's so good, why is it so bad? Why is there less than 50% on farmers' accounts? RD funds? It's the seventh year of the seven-year perspective. I also ask what you are doing with more than 5 billion of cohesion policy, which was intended to invest in rural areas. Are you monitoring this in any way? Because it's important money, too. Last but not least: When will you complete the payment of the modernisation applications submitted by farmers in 2016? You are talking about extending the time limits for the submission of documents by farmers, and the problem is that it is not farmers who create these documents, but the necessary further documents that your employees create. And it's time to stop this bureaucracy and start spending money. I ask you, Minister, to answer the questions asked. Mr Krajewski also wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u30	Yeah, yeah. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u31	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, We have heard that delays are due to COVID, and in part I understand that, I have managed the regional branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for many years. I would like to ask, then, how many overtime and working Saturdays were introduced this year to the agency. It is not an art to give overtime, which the employee will receive in a moment, because it does not bring anything about speeding up the handling of applications. It's important how much overtime has been worked out this year. And the second thing - the green order has been coming in since March, farmers don't know anything about it. I understand that the pandemic, again, is a problem with organizing meetings in public media instead of telling stories, how beautiful it is in every area and how good you have done for farmers. Introduce such a program to inform about the green order, because farmers don't know anything, they call it a green mess or sometimes even more forcefully, using non-parliamental words, so I won't repeat it. Please respond in writing about these overtimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u32	I thank Mr Stefan Krajewski very much for asking the question. I ask Minister Anna Gembicka to answer both Minister Sawicki and Mr Krajewski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u33	Ladies and gentlemen! Our Rural Development Programme is designed in such a way that a large part is investment expenditure. They are necessarily spread over time, hence the information you provide here is simply due to such and not to another form of this program. As far as action is concerned: The modernisation of agricultural holdings has been extended, as I said in my previous reply. Of course it's not like we're We did it for our convenience, on the contrary - we did it to respond to these requests, to the various kinds of requests that have arisen because of the fact that the pandemic has obviously made things difficult. It was therefore necessary to extend the time limits. Once the documentation has been duly completed, all this will continue. With regard to these overtimes, as you said, the reply will be given in writing here. With regard to the green order, I would like to say that we are working at the Ministry to prepare ourselves as best as possible for these proposals to talk to farmers about this. E.g. There was a meeting with the agricultural agreement yesterday. We are still in dialogue with farmers, meeting with industry organisations so that we can best communicate our comments to the European Commission later. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. Another subject and question to be asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, and the answer will be given to Minister Sławomir Gadomski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the context of planned screening tests in Podkarpacie, Małopolska and Silesia, one should note that this is a very large logistical and organizational challenge. On the other hand, these studies are needed due to a large number of infections. As a resident of the Silesian Voivodeship, more specifically Zagłębie Dąbrowskiego, I would like to ask how the research will be carried out. Based on the referral of family doctors, by the drive-thru download points, or is there any other way? Will the tests be mandatory? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u36	Thank you very much. I ask that the question which has been asked receive an answer from Minister Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, This is a more complex question and it cannot be easily answered for several reasons. The first and fundamental reason: at the level of the government crisis management team, no final decisions were made on the shape of the screening studies that the Prime Minister referred to. When we announced these studies, we had a slightly different situation in terms of availability for tests. First of all, after the announcement of a study in the health department, we were thinking deeply about how on the one hand effectively go through the process of these research, because - as you have noticed - this is a huge logistical and organisational challenge. The challenge is to swab and run diagnostic tests. The important thing is to do it quickly, because only then do these tests make sense. We've made two decisions. One, we're introducing antigen tests to POZ doctors. Even when the Prime Minister announced it, that decision was not made. A little bit on the hint of the discussion about screening tests we decided on a slightly different way, i.e. to make available to POZ doctors the antigen tests they could carry out. The antigen tests were previously available in hospitals, emergency rooms, SORs. They were primarily used for rapid diagnostics of patients who were there. These are tests, the results of which are obtained after several minutes, so it was really important to apply them at these points. These are tests that doctors of POZ can carry out today and are additionally funded. It's worth noticing. They can carry them out, of course, by using their own stocks or by gathering certain stocks of these tests. Then the valuation is approx. 75 PLN for carrying out such a test. They can run them using tests from our central resources. Then this valuation is lower. If I remember correctly, it's 38 zlotys. Immediately after the announcement of this, i.e. after 1 December, and after the implementation of the order of the President of the NFZ, which enabled the clearing of such diagnostic benefits, we carried out an assessment of the demand of POZ for antigen tests. 1500 stakeholders were interested in receiving such tests, and the demand was around 900 000. After verification, after eliminating certain obvious errors we decided to send, you can say, the first tranche of 400,000. tests for POZ doctors. This is in a sense a response to the need to significantly increase the number of tests carried out and the universality of tests carried out using antigen tests. It is worth noting that we have not abandoned the decision to carry out screening tests, we are only thinking about changing its formula. Decisions not yet made... In other words, we have almost two variants today. Either in these three voivodships before the return of children and teachers to school, we will carry out voluntary screenings among teachers, or - the second option - we will expand these studies, we will leave the area of three voivodships and we will extend these studies to the whole of Poland, but this will only apply to groups of teachers who are going back to school. If it is decided that after 15 January, probably 17 January, the teachers of classes I-III will return, we will include them in this examination. There are 260 thousand such teachers in Poland. This is an organisational challenge, because we need to run tests in a very short time, so we aim for these tests on 14 or 15 January, so that the results are available before Monday, before returning. What is very important is that the final decision on the method of testing has not yet been taken. Three methods are possible. We analyze together with experts each of them, each of them has disadvantages and advantages. The first is the antigen tests I mentioned. They're fast, but they need a swab, so they're gonna have to do the teachers' swab points anyway. These are tests whose sensitivity - experts emphasize it quite strongly - is actually only high for symptomatic patients. The possibility of screening tests is limited, although some countries (the Bell), such as Austria and Slovakia, benefit from these tests. Marshal, can I have another minute, please? Yes, please. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you very much. The second method we are considering is, of course, traditional PCR tests, whose sensitivity is higher and which, in the expert opinion, seem better for such research. And the third method, the most promising and one that we're trying to validate, you can say, used the Nencki Institute. It is one of the best institutes of biochemistry or biology in this country, which carried out such a pilot PCR test, but taken from saliva, moreover - pulverized, i.e. a situation in which we do not test one person. Just a group. 12 samples enter this test. It's much faster, much easier, because we don't have to organize a swab system. This is a saliva test, anyone can prepare this material himself, put it in a test tube. We're actually on the eve of final decisions. That still requires expert advice. They received this in order to deliver such an opinion and a team at the National Institute of Public Health, and a national consultant, Professor Horban. I think the Medical Council at the premiere will also take care of this, and these decisions will take place soon. And in principle, we're probably going to use the existing infrastructure, which is the drive-thru swab points. The tests, because that last question was about it, will be voluntary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Waldemar Andzel will also ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've already got some answers to a lot of questions, and I'm gonna ask you some more questions. Is there a list of the points at which the tests will be performed? We're talking about the fact that we're going to have this research in the Silesian Voivodeship. The point is that probably the final decision has not yet been made how the inhabitants will then receive the results. And the third to which the Minister already replied: How soon will the results be available? Well, it all depends, of course, on how these tests are going to be done. Of course, I would encourage you to certainly do such research, but I also know that this is a very expensive case. It is important what the effect of these tests will be and also how much they will be (the Bell) needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u40	Thank you, sir. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u41	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As for the speed of these results, as I said, it depends on the type of test. If it's an antigen test, the results will be available right away, right away, after 15 and 20 minutes. If this is a molecular test, a PCR test, then these results - we have to organize it this way and this is the assumption - will be available within 24 hours. They must, of course, be available before Monday, before 17 January, before this date in a certain sense limit. That's 260,000 on this scale. The tests are very difficult. We have said many times that our daily laboratory capacity is about 80,000. Maybe there's a little more today because we put new labs on the list, maybe up to 100,000. daily tests. Of this, of course, a certain part is already allocated to the needs of the hospital system, the diagnostic system, the system related to orders from POZ doctors. However, this is why we have high hopes primarily for this third option, which I was talking about, the one that has been examined by experts, which is a variant of sampling, because then we do not carry out 260 thousand. only approx. 20 and 22 thousand. such tests for these pooled, combined samples. With regard to call points, this also depends on the type of test performed. We don't tie these points to the P.O.Z. doctor, we'd rather use the potential of drive-thru points. These points on a country-wide scale are over 600. If this one... And here also two variants: if we have it in three voivodships, we'll probably try to dedicate some points. We cooperate very well with the Polish Army, the Territorial Defence Forces. I think that using their potential - after all, they are already supporting collection points today - we could expand this list in these three voivodships, put temporary points there. But if it was the final decision that we're doing this all over the country, it's probably using the points we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u42	Thank you very much. And another topic in which Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer will be asked as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I have very sad plates. This is information about how many additional deaths occurred until 29 November in Poland. Increase by an additional 47 669 compared to statistics from previous years, from 2018, 2019 and earlier years. That means an additional $50,000. The Poles died at a time when the statistics of Coronavirus are only talking about 20,000. Deaths. November is like our Lombardy. Normally in November, in four weeks of November about 30,000 die. persons. In November 2020 - 59 998 and this is data from 2 to 29 November, and this figure will therefore exceed 60 000. And here's the basic question: how is it possible that in such an extraordinary time, when we have such an increase in mortality, when this increase in mortality? in November is probably higher in Poland than in any other country of the European Union, we will have data on the causes of these deaths in January 2022, i.e. 13 months from the end of the year that we have today? And now it seems that in extraordinary times we should adopt extraordinary procedures. If mortality increases so much, and we know that only part of it is a coronavirus, and the rest are other causes, then the ministry should do everything to at least have this data at least at a much faster rate, so that - if vaccinations... and we know that vaccinations may take up to 2 or more years to gain population immunity - they can counteract this increase in deaths among Poles. Is there anything more dramatic than the fact that in November the number of people who died increased by 90% compared to annual statistics? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we expect the Ministry to act quickly. And I ask the Minister, how is it possible that we will wait 13 months? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u44	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Sławomir Gadomski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and A quick question, and I think there's going to be a short answer, maybe I'll develop a little bit of death in November. We won't wait 13 months, which means we agree that this is a burning problem. We agree that the analysis is required, it is necessary to actually determine the reasons for the increase in the number of deaths, because yes, this is a fact, unfortunately this November, these statistics are tragic, difficult to accept and very worrying. Why don't we wait 13 months? Because the Minister of Health commissioned the National Institute of Public Health in cooperation with the CSO to carry out such analysis much faster. In fact, we are counting on preliminary results at the beginning of January. We must also make it clear that this 13-month or even longer, over-annual deadline is a standard term that we have been dealing with for years. That's how the GUS statistical reporting system works, and that's how some analysis works. I'm going to refer to the example of other population registers. The National Cancer Register, there's an analysis to answer what were the causes of the disease, what cancer, what survival, etc., is delayed by 2 years. Today we have reliable data for 2017 or 2018, because that is the logic of constructing these registers. But I agree that these data must be faster, the National Institute of Public Health in cooperation with the CSO is to produce such a report. We, too, at the Ministry of Health, with limited data - because we do not have all the statistical reports that the CSO has - are conducting a preliminary analysis. Such an analysis can obviously involve deaths not only in terms of number but also in terms of age structure. We are trying - it is very difficult - to analyze the burden on the underlying diseases. Of course, today we report deaths in such a way that we show whether or not the patient was affected by the underlying disease, while here we conduct a slightly broader analysis, wondering and looking for answers, how affected these underlying diseases, how much COVID itself, because we also realize that the deaths with COVID that we report, are deaths reported in the EWP system, primarily hospital deaths or medical rescue. But we are also aware that it is highly likely that some people died of COVID and had not had a positive result before. We analyze it in two ways, and maybe it's worth a refill. We do not only show deaths during COVID, because the analysis of the Ministry of Health also applies to people who passed COVID, which means we say that maybe this COVID caused it. Then these people may even have ended their isolation period or left the hospital, but such deaths, for example. domestic conditions happen. So that's what we're doing, too. We're expanding. These are preliminary analyses, so today it is still difficult to talk about the results for November, because we are still in the process of this analysis. If we look at these preliminary results, for most of this surplus that we actually see in November - we have seen it since October, because in fact in October the number of deaths began to increase - I think that, depending on the week, more than 50%, are certainly responsible for deaths directly related and reported as deaths of patients with COVID. The vital part is those deaths where the patient had COVID earlier. For a huge part - as soon as I look at the reports, probably for about 70.75% - the deaths of COVID and non-COVID patients with underlying diseases. We conduct this analysis related to diseases by choosing, so colloquially, procedures or benefits for certain patients, in particular chronic, oncology, cardiological diseases, during the past 12 months. That's where we're really thinking. On the other hand, we are not able to clearly carry out Today, for example, the evaluation of death cards. This task is in a sense before the Institute in cooperation with the CSO. However, as we can see, the vast majority of deaths are deaths of people with underlying diseases. But what might be worth pointing out... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, can I have another one and a half minutes? What's worth saying is these deaths, of course... I guess it wasn't yellow, it was red light in the ministry, and we took a catalog of action immediately, practically immediately. Firstly, with regard to patients, especially older ones, because in fact the majority of this excess death rate is responsible for deaths among older people, among 70+ people. Here we seem to have identified the risk of getting too late to the hospital. A lot of deaths reported by medical emergency services aren't ambulance deaths, they're deaths that rescues report as soon as they get home. There are, of course, many reasons for this, and we have discussed these reasons in the Health Committee. What kind of action? First of all, we have provided an automatic system for the inclusion of patients 55+ in the home care program, where we use pulsometers, for a program where emergency services, doctors, have access to these pulse meters. We have more and more of this, are indeed important increases in this home care program. As I recall, until yesterday, over 30,000. persons have been covered by this programme. Here is a very important introduction of the connection between medical emergency dispatchers and the PulsoCare coordination centre, which is also supposed to increase the efficiency of medical rescue operations to some extent. As for the rescue itself, of course, this is also about the implementation of antigen tests. It's a certain change and a reminder of the rules and guidelines for medical rescue team administrators based also on tests, antigen tests. Of course, there is also an increase in access to medicines in the treatment process, to Remdesivir, which was quite loud here. These are indeed significant increases in the fourth quarter. As far as plasma access is concerned, yesterday was the meeting of the Health Committee and I was pleased to present this information. Today we have virtually four times the surplus in relation to needs, such stock surpluses. There is also an efficient supply of oxygen. Here's the partnership. also with companies of the State Treasury, with the Ministry of State Assets. It is also about another organization of intensive care in hospitals - under the leadership of Prof. Sheepchucks have developed some guidelines for the qualification of patients for intensive care - also about another organisation of teams, many other activities. But I do indeed agree with the honourable Member, the information is not good and we will continue to analyse and minimise deaths in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Again, we have 30,000. more deaths in November compared to November last year and due to COVID - 11 275. I do not know if you are aware, but you have just admitted on this speaker that government statistics on mortality on COVID may be severely underestimated, because there are only two ways out of this situation: either more Poles are dying because the availability of health care has deteriorated, or because you are completely lost in COVID statistics and many more Poles are dying because of the epidemic. But assuming both one and the other option, when and how are you going to increase the availability of primary hospital care back? We know well that through COVID many hospitals, and in fact most of them, have shut down the planned procedures, work only in the framework of the emergency call, and single-name hospitals such as the hospital at the national stadium are empty. When will you restore normal hospital work, the availability of specialist doctors and POZ in some normal mode, not just as a teleporad? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u48	Thank you very much, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u49	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, we have spent quite a bit of time in the Health Committee sitting discussing this, but I understand the need for clarification in this area again. Madam President, we have not closed down basic health care. The doctor of POZ today does not have any blockades from the Ministry of Health or the National Health Fund to receive patients in standard mode. Television is an additional tool that we have made possible and which - it is probably necessary to appreciate indeed when it comes to the implementation of teleporads, e-recipes and e-release solutions - in fact it has allowed us to significantly reduce infections just among POZ doctors, to ensure that the use of these tools has made health care available at the level of primary health care. I wouldn't agree with that. I wouldn't agree with the fact that the POZ doctor was locked down at headquarters level. A little rhetorical - is it the Member's request today to take away the possibility of teleporading? 'Cause I don't agree with that. We delivered the tool... Standardize, Minister. Madame, we have provided a tool that the doctor can use. It is the doctor who evaluates whether he wants to and should see whether he wants to and should perform a physical examination, whether his assessment of the risk and health of the patient requires this. We've provided antigen tests since December 1st, tests that a POZ doctor can also use in order to have less fear of physical examination of the patient, so that they can be used... Hospital care. ...and after a dozen minutes have a score, and indeed such a patient, if this result is negative, be able to take care of it. The same applies to hospitals. Member, we have not closed any hospital or branch. Moreover, we are introducing a whole catalogue of tools that maintain the continuity of the operation of these hospitals. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Mrs... ...it's locked. ...I didn't interrupt during the question. You're welcome. Madame, it is not such a formula that we are discussing with the Minister from Parliament's benches. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you, Marshal. Member of the Commission, about hospitals. Continuity and availability of care at hospital level is guaranteed, for example, by a lump sum payment mechanism, a lump sum payment of 1/12, a significant reduction in payment deadlines by the National Health Fund in order to ensure that, from a systemic point of view, these hospitals have a comfortable functioning. I do not mention any significant, huge measures addressed to the hospital system from the COVID fund, whether for the operation of the second or third level beds, or for the protection of personal protective equipment. And I would like to remind you that they have been increased since 1 July in the whole flat-rate hospital system by 3%, that we have significantly increased the valuations in the whole healthcare system, because since 1 July we have 3% increased the valuation for each billing invoice, not only in the hospital system (the bell), but also in the POZ system, also in the field of outpatient specialist care. And I probably don't have enough time to mention those many activities that I have answered in very detail at the Health Committee meeting. On the other hand, I cannot agree with the fact that there is a reason for this. But of course, this is also what I was talking about at the Health Committee meeting, there was a plan to rebuild the health of Poles, and next week there will be details of this plan, because it was outlined by Minister Niedzielski, as I remember, 2 weeks ago. This plan will also respond to this graph, will touch the areas of prevention, will affect the area of cancer prevention. Because these figures are indeed also related to the fact that patients did not benefit from early diagnosis and early prevention. For various reasons, they did not benefit: because of fear, because they preferred to stay home. But here too - I would develop far away from the topic - huge pressure from the ministry, huge media pressure to convince patients to continue therapy, to report to a doctor, and to keep the password from going to a doctor. Thank you, Marshal. You know that in fact...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. We're on the same subject. The question will now be asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The creation of the Medical Fund was a very good decision. This is an important step and great achievements for the Polish health system, which was expected by many environments, as it is an opening door to modern treatment. Therefore, I have questions to the Minister: What amount is earmarked for this purpose from the state budget? When will it be possible to use it and for what? So far, has health care had this kind of financial support? The Medical Fund - from what we learned in legislation - will have many opportunities to finance actions, innovative solutions in medicine. Therefore, I also have a question: Can new technologies, new tasks be implemented here? How does the Ministry of Health see cooperation with medical centres in this regard? Will individual hospitals be able to apply? Who will coordinate these expenses? And can this new technical, medical thought, in cooperation with universities, also be financed by the Medical Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u52	Thank you very much, Member. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for that question, very hit, because we're actually on a deadline that should... It's a good thing he set these questions free. On November 26th, 2 weeks ago, the provisions of the Medical Fund Act entered into force. A fund that gives on the one hand a source of funding, but which kind of... The Act also changes the organisation system in certain areas. Briefly about these areas. The first area is the investment area. This is an area where we have identified two sub-funds, a sub-fund for strategic investment and a sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals. That is also the answer, because I have already responded to this, also to the expectations of the Prime Minister expressed in the exposé. The Prime Minister announced the creation of a modernization fund for hospitals, with a pool of funds at his disposal of PLN 2 billion. We, in the creation of the Medical Fund, incorporated into the structure of the Medical Fund a sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals. I am convinced that this sum of funds will be even greater. Why? Because the Medical Fund established by the Law on the initiative of President Andrzej Duda provides financial opportunities for a very large, huge - 4.2 billion PLN per year is the amount that this fund will be funded from next year. This year, according to the Act, PLN 2 billion secured by the revised budget law. This is a very large measure, because if we put it together with even our capabilities from EU funds, the Operational Programme - Infrastructure and the environment - we all know how many investments have been made from this programme and we value this programme very much - it is its total allocation over the last six years of the EU's ongoing perspective that is PLN 3.2 billion. We here estimate that in the next 6 years about PLN 4/5 billion will probably go into the infrastructure area from the Medical Fund, i.e. more than in the EU perspective, in EU funds. As a health resort, we are very happy that our needs will also be covered. This is the infrastructure area. The areas may be closer or more directly felt by patients are the drug area and the benefit area. It's synthetic. The area of benefits is primarily the introduction of unlimited benefits for children. This is really another step in abolishing limits, because these limits have been gradually trying to endure for two years now. First in diagnostics, in cataracts, endoprotesoplastics, at the beginning of this year. Although the effect is unfortunately unnoticed in outpatient specialist care in the four most common areas. Unnoticed, because in fact the pandemic did not allow effective use of this tool. Here unlimited benefits for children. Many children's centers have actually been waiting for this moment, often high-specialized centers, which will actually be able to deal with mainly and only what they are for, that is, the treatment of children. The drug area - big changes. Big changes and financial, because a huge financial injection in three, let's say, variants, in three types of support that this bill gives. First, rescue access to medical technology. The tool that functions in the system, although its efficiency we have assessed as low. Why? Because it gives therapeutic opportunities, gives doctors opportunities, but the formal procedure was difficult. Requested consent from the Minister of Health, opinion, evaluation of medical technology agencies. It lasted about 45 days, even longer. We're changing it. We have introduced an important simplification. We add from the Medical Fund to high-specialist centres, drug programs, whether in oncology or in rare diseases. Such budget allocated to 3% It's for the new RDTL. For these decisions to be made by clinicians, so that they can, knowing what's best for the patient, have this budget for innovative therapies, often for experimental therapies. But in fact, this mode would be much easier here. And two major programmes: an innovation therapy programme and a high-performance therapy programme, for which we will probably spend over PLN 1 billion per year from this fund, if not more. These are programmes for which the technology development agency is now making an evaluation. It's a tough show. A horizontal analysis of the therapies available in Europe, registered in Europe, which are considered innovative, must be carried out, while ensuring that they are effective in the form of clinical trials. These therapies often (the bell) in the standard reimbursement process are not able to go through the evaluation stage of the agency, because the evidence of their effectiveness is not enough. However, we really want to finance these innovative therapies in the formula of this fund for 2 years. We want to build a register for such a treatment and evaluate its effectiveness, so that then the evaluation of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification is complete, reliable, based on our tool rather than external research. And finally, the fund, which is the source of funding for highly clinically effective therapies. We know that in Poland all therapies refunded in Europe are not refunded. Why? For all kinds of reasons. We've been doing this analysis. Often because it's a pharmaceutical company, a pharmaceutical company doesn't apply for a refund. Within this fund we want to oblige, as if to press some pharmaceutical companies, to show that these are the therapies that we care about, that these are the therapies that we would like to be reimbursed in Poland. It is a dialogue based on an analysis by the agencies of the effectiveness of this therapy, as regards requirements, international guidelines, in the case of oncology, for example, to cover these areas. These are important measures, very important measures. I think they're gonna start paying for the patients, but I'm also asking for a moment of patience. The Agency and the Ministry of Health must prepare these products well so that the real spending of these large funds is effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will also ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased that programmes related to spending finance on innovative treatments will have the possibility of being part of the Medical Fund, but because I deal with rare diseases, I am very interested in... Here I would like to thank the Minister very much for the strategy for rare diseases that patients have been waiting for for over 12 years. It's happening, and the patients are very grateful, and I'm meeting it in these forums. But I'm interested in this early diagnosis because we know it's genetic diseases. Here is the great role of doctors of first contact, i.e. pediatricians who analyze it, show and want to treat quickly - so that society has little burden on people with disabilities. I'm talking about muscle atrophy. I also have a question (the bell) about innovative treatment, and I don't want to prolong lung cancer, because here are patients' discriminatory situations. But as for the details, I would ask the Minister for information, because unfortunately, the time has passed. I would very much ask for such a compendium of knowledge, because those environments we work with have great hopes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u56	Thank you very much. I think the Minister will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u57	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Lots of threads indeed. Strategy for rare diseases. Please don't congratulate me yet. We haven't been able to complete it yet. But it's at the end. We're at the end, we're just de facto pricing it. Indeed, we will be looking for the source of funding, but the programme of tasks, the programme related to what we want to do in this area, what steps we want to take, what we want to do according to the planned timetable, was created with the cooperation of experts led by Prof. Chrzanowski from the Institute of the Children's Health Centre. It seems to me that this is actually a program that responds to needs, but we also really approach it. I really wanted it to be a real program, maybe even a little overshadowed, maybe an evolutionary one, which means it's not all going to be all at once, but it's real to do. I think that this valuation will be over in the near future - I am talking about weeks and not months - and we will present this programme for consultation. Of course, the Medical Fund will also be a source of funding for many activities related to the national programme of rare diseases. Genetic diagnosis, you mentioned this early diagnosis, is very important from the point of view of rare diseases. Although it is financed under the scheme today, it is in the basket of guaranteed benefits, but we know about the additional needs, we know that these available technologies, genetic diagnostics opportunities vary practically from year to year. There are other test panels, and they're getting wider, and they're getting more and more accurate. This is indeed a very big technological progress. Here we really want to ensure and increase the funding of the procedures themselves, and to separate some new procedures, because we have such signals from the environment, and this is how this programme is designed, including in this area, but we also want to ensure a significant increase in the equipment, the infrastructure of genetic centres, especially reference centres, which will also be a strategy. These are important tasks, but we also have an excellent source of funding for them, such as the Medical Fund, but also other possibilities for support by the Minister of Health. So much for rare diseases. I've got a dozen seconds left. In the case of lung cancer in terms of refund, I think, I'm even convinced of that, we have made major changes in recent years. Many new molecules, new innovative therapies, unfortunately the most expensive ones, have been included in the refund lists. We don't have any parts. In the case of lung cancer, we've done quite a thorough analysis. If we look at the overall European level, we can see that we cover 60%. all treatments available. Our clinicians say we don't all need them, so it's not like that either. As we look at the system of applications submitted for reimbursement, we see that in fact the Minister of Health (The Bell) covers 95% Of all people. We have rejected the margin of those which the agency has found ineffective or where it has found that these evidences are too small, and in fact most of them are covered. Those changes I was talking about earlier, in terms of the Medical Fund, I hope, will change that a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u58	Thank you very much to the Minister for his response. We're changing the subject now. I ask Alexander Mishalski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Orlen is a modern fuel and energy company with over 20,000 employees. The total number of people is 3,000. fuel stations in six countries, making it the largest petrochemical company in Central and Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, the value of the group in the Ub. y. fell by more than 27%. And here is my first question: What steps did Orlen take to counter the decline in market value in 2020 and 2021? The company has already been used by you to pump additional funds into the state budget, e.g. by buying energy instead of mergers, 2 billion PLN, without reducing the share. We know that this type of action is also planned for Lotus and PGNiG. And if this is to some extent controversial, it is a concrete advantage for the State Treasury. The question arises here: What concrete benefits for the Treasury will result from the purchase by Orlen of Polish Press publications? How will this purchase affect the competitiveness of Orlen in the fuel and energy market, which is where it operates? While taking over companies in the petrochemical industry, energy can be explained somehow, it seems even justified, but spending money on a press firm is some big absurdity. President Obajtek claims that this will allow us to reach new customers with Orlen's offer. I guess, in Poland, everyone knows what Orlen is, and I don't think that's gonna help. And if we're talking about a new offer, I'm asking, what? Vegan hot dogs? What are you gonna sell to these customers? On this occasion I would also like to ask what the duties of President of Obajtek are, because recently the Mayor of the Noble of Myślenice bragged and thanked the President for taking care of the Myślenice 22 million PLN from the Government Fund for Local Investments. So the Poles should know whether the duties of the President are included in the duties. Orlen also wants to issue bonds for a billion zlotys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is: How much do you want to pay for Poland Press? They say 120 million, but what do you need that billion for? And my last question: How does such purchases affect the implementation of Orlen's strategy of achieving emission neutrality in 2050? What you're doing isn't a recolonization. It's nationalization like it was in Bierut's day. And the centrally planned economy will always lose to the free market economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u60	Thank you so much for asking the question. Mr Maciej Małecki will answer these questions by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Minister for State Assets, who exercises ownership supervision of the listed company PKN Orlen, I would like to provide you and your fellow Members with information on the purchase by PKN Orlen of 100% shares of Polska Press, a publishing group forming part of the German holding company Verlagsgruppe Passau. I would like to add that the transaction will take place after obtaining the consent of the Polish UOKiK. According to Orlen, the purchase of Poland Press is a business investment for the company. Poland Press is one of the largest publishers in Poland, which in 2019 achieved revenues of 398 400 thousand. zł, has 20 of 24 regional journals published in Poland and nearly 120 local weekly newspapers. Most of them take the lead in reading and selling. The group's portfolio also includes 500 websites, which are used by around 17.5 million users per month. Assets Polska Press is a very good tool enabling PKN Orlen to reach potential customers with a product offer. The acquisition of Poland Press by Orlen will enable the creation of an extensive database based on information about customers of Poland Press, Orlen Vitay, Stop Cafe, but also Energa Group or Movement. Such actions have already been implemented by well-known global companies. The transaction is also part of Orlen's 2030 strategy, which announced the development of retail sales, among others. by the development of modern communication channels. The purchase of Polska Press refers to the assumptions of this strategy, in particular as regards the construction of an integrated digital service platform based on the customer base. The transaction will also generate additional advertising savings. In addition, the purchase of a publishing group is another step of the group aimed at marketing services, following the creation in 2019 of its own media agency, which corresponds inter alia. for the planning and purchase of media campaigns, and after the acquisition of a press distributor Movement. Before taking the current decision, the transaction was analysed, both by experts from PKN Orlen and external advisors. Due diligence has been carried out in the financial, legal and tax area. Orlen also used the analysis of external advisors. The same route as Orlen went to other global companies, including the industrial sector. I'll give you some examples. Amazon's owner purchased the American daily The Washington Post. In 2018, AT&T, an American communications company, became the owner of a media group. Time Warner. In 2016, the global electronic company Arrow Electronics purchased UBM, i.e. the entire platform of printed and online media. In 2017, the state-owned car company Renault acquired 40% shares of one of the French media groups. High Izbo! Regarding the perspective of the interests of the Polish state regarding the purchase by Orlen of Polish Press publishing houses, the Minister of State Assets takes the view that restoring Polish capital in the media is a return to normality and a major leap towards European and global standards. I can cite here an example of France, which has a strictly regulated and defocused media market. The biggest media groups are French. The only foreign big player on the market is the German group Bertelsmann France. The French law sets out precisely what percentage of the shares of printed and digital media can be in the hands of one owner and what market share it can achieve. The daily press market in Germany is dominated by ten German publishers. The strong position of the local and regional press is characteristic of the German press market, which is about 3/4 of the total daily press in Germany. The situation on the magazine market is similar. In the Czech Republic close to us in the last 13 years, the share of foreign corporations in the press market has fallen from 80% to 7% and on TV from 59% to 5%. Meanwhile, on 35 journals published in Poland about 70% belongs to foreign capital. In turn among the top ten regional portals currently 60% is controlled by foreign capital and only 40% by national. After the acquisition of Poland Press by Orlen, the share of Polish capital in 35 nationwide and regional newspapers published in Poland (Dzwonek) will increase to around 90%. I think that for the Polish parliament this change in the media market, which is carried out thanks to Polish capital, the company of the Treasury, should be welcomed with joy, because there is something to be enjoyed. Unfortunately, the current direction of changes in the media market may also be incomprehensible to the part of the House, and the speech by the Member is proof of this, because for many years, during the recent governments of the Platform and the PSL, we have been dealing with a massive sale of national assets. I will mention the sale of PKP Energy when it was said that a golden egg laying hen was sold, a company crucial to the safety of the country. In 2009, here in Warsaw, the Capital Warm Energy Company, SPEC, was disposed of as a monopoly, a well-functioning company, which was given to a foreign entity. Now we are dealing with a change in the approach to the management of state assets through the Law and Justice Government. We do not sell out Polish companies, we do not liquidate Polish companies. The Government of Law and Justice takes care of the development of Polish companies and Polish capital, and Orlen's actions led by President Daniel Obajtka show that this is a very well-defined road. The Member was gracious to mention at the beginning the decline in the value of the shares. This applies to all, many oil and fuel companies. The reason is simple: a decrease in fuel demand, a greater supply of fuel in the market and thus a lower fuel margin. If you look at the ratings, capitalization of other leading players, including world players, is a similar trend. However, in the last sentence in this part I would like to say that during 3.5 years of rule of law and justice PKN Orlen has generated a profit of more than 20 billion PLN. [[Applause]] This is many times more than in 8 years of Platform and PSL rule. Orlen, led by President Daniel Obajtka, supervised by the Government of Law and Justice, is on the right path, building a multi-energy company that seeks business benefits wherever possible, in line with the strategy adopted by 2030. Thank you. You haven't answered any of the questions. None.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska will be asked in a moment, but the Minister may also have an extended time to answer the questions asked by the Member. There was no answer. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have such good advice. If someone is selling gasoline, maybe don't get involved in selling information, because then the effect is quite explosive, and the answer to any question, as Mr Mishalski says here, was not. And I suspect he'll still be gone. Minister! In your previous term of office, the Treasury was used to create such a rich warehouse for your staff, and it was a magazine that was rich in jobs. In this term, you went further. Because companies of the State Treasury are starting to serve you for special tasks. And that's what they have. carry out the elections, which was to happen this year, and the Treasury loses 70 million PLN, and that is now, as it turns out, to issue newspapers. I am not surprised, Minister, that you have no idea what the media market looks like in Europe, and you are telling here (the bell), for apology, heresy. I'll just tell you, publishing newspapers isn't the same as making hot dogs and selling gas. There's such a constitutional value, and yesterday, your president and your prime minister spoke a lot about values... The Prime Minister is ours - Polish. Excuse me, ma'am, let me finish. There's a constitutional value called freedom of speech. Mr. President Obeytko has been told so far that he can do anything, and now, I see, he knows everything now. You're breaking the constitutional value. So you can understand what's going on... - The £ód1⁄4 Log. I'll show you here. This is my paper. You bought it now. I wonder if there will be any information in this journal of Łódź that Mr Daniel Obajtek in his previous incarnation, in another company, had a bribery proceeding. I don't think so. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me. That's not true. Well, hello, fellas, there you go, there you go, there you go, there you go. That's what it looks like. I would very much like the Łódź daily to continue to show real information. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u64	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister to answer the questions asked by the Member, and if you would like, Minister, and there will be time for that, you can also answer the questions of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that hard opposition, Platform, PSL, to understand that there are changes that are taking place that restore Polish property also in the media. Ladies and gentlemen! It's hard for me to understand your way of thinking. According to the opposition, German capital in the media on the Polish market is beneficial for the media in Poland, and Polish capital is negative for this market. How? It's a disgrace. You claimed that capital has no nationality, but when Polish capital appears, this capital burns you. This is... You don't understand... Mrs... Member, I am very... Madam, please allow me to answer that question. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: ...please let you speak. You, in a very brutal way from this speaker, attacked President Daniel Obajtka, showing reprehensible things. I think you are aware of this and take full responsibility for the words you spoke to President Daniel Obajtek. And I have one request for Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska. Member, the ways change, the empires fall, and you still condemn and settle. If you recall Bieruta, Gomulka yesterday, talk to Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska - you will learn a lot. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And now... Minister, this is really... State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Mr. Marshal... Mr. Marshal... ...that's really -- let me -- there's no answer to the question. And you better... State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Mr. Marshal... But wait a minute. Excuse me. Indeed, the content of your answer should not suggest anything, because you can also look for interesting individuals in your own ranks. Mr. Marshal, freedom of speech. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Did you talk about the threat of freedom, independence of the media when there were plans to reduce employment or to reduce wages in the Polish Press? You point to this now that a strong Polish investor has appeared, who has a stable vision of the development of the whole group. Why do you think that in Poland the Polish owner has no right to replace the German owner in the media? Why should Polish journalism suffer under the wings of the Polish eagle in any way, and under the German flag should it develop? Is it because you still think Polishness is abnormal? How can you explain to Polish parliamentarians that you should be proud of Poland that you do not need to apologize constantly for Poland? Moreover, some of you are calling for a boycott of Orlen, not to buy at Polish stations. It's criminal. Some parliamentarians in the Polish Sejm do this. This is outrageous, ridiculous and horrible. Anti-Polish. As for the privatisation and the examples you have cited from the past - the only major acquisition in the media sector related to the Treasury and implemented under the Platform and PSL governments was 49% sales the shares of Presspublica which issues, inter alia, "Rzeczpospolita" and "Parkiet" Gremi Media of Mr Grzegorz Hajdarowicz in October 2011 bought them for PLN 55 million from the Publishing Company Rzeczpospolita, a single-member company of the State Treasury. Apart from the doubts about the amount and the form of sale of these assets, it should be mentioned that private capital did not protect the employees of the Rzeczpospolita and the Parketu. Nor can we forget about the sudden change of the editorial line of these journals, nor can we forget that the spokesperson of the government of the Platform called for a dumpster or a squirrel in the vicinity of the Sejm at night of the same owner, and then suddenly there were departures in the weekly "I consider the Sculpture critical of the government of Donald Tusk." Ladies and gentlemen! As far as journalists are concerned, they may form trade unions or join existing associations, also associate in journalistic associations, by means of which they request their employer to respect journalistic ethics and independence. It is hard to imagine that PKN Orlen, who regularly receives the titles of the best employer in Poland, would commit violations of employees' rights and require unethical behaviour. It's hard to imagine. It is probably necessary to be on the opposition side to be obsessed with the fact that the German owner is still better than the Polish one. Dear country, the German concern has already sold the group Polska Press PKN Orlen. The opposition politicians, for this reason, resent the rulers, the government. Opportunity, mercy! Have a grudge against the Germans for selling you out, and to whom? The Treasury. The acquisition, purchase of Poland Press by PKN Orlen is a return to normality, that is the restoration of European, world standards in Poland, where so far the media have been, and are still, mostly in foreign hands, where the western capital is owned. And since these media are extremely gracious to the opposition - whether when she ruled or at present - and very violently attacking the Polish government, it is probably accidental that the opposition is wailing about it now. We take the road to normality, recolonize, restore Polish property, and Orlen led by President Daniel Obajtek shows that he has not only a head for business, recording record historical profits that you did not even dream of, but also has a heart to help where you need them. And this proves every day during the pandemic, during an epidemic that affects Poles, because Orlen is on the first front of helping Poles fight the epidemic. In your day, it wouldn't be possible because Orlen wouldn't have such a business position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. Please now, because we are moving on to another topic, Mr Andrzej Gawron, for the question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! People who own a housing book often come to my parliamentary office. This document, this housing book in the '70s and '80s, gave us a real opportunity to get the keys to the first apartment. This housing book was practically in every family. Unfortunately, hyperinflation in the 1990s caused that contributions on this book completely devalued and their real value - although it could be assumed that there would be an apartment - limited itself to the fact that these funds could be bought for example. chandelier. The only way to get the money back from the housing book was with a guarantee bonus. And this guarantee premium was partly paid to those who decided to do it, but it was only possible to finance 12 investments. The Ministry is currently working on a social part of the housing package, where the possibility of obtaining funds from the housing book has been extended. I would ask you to approximate exactly the solutions that have been proposed in this social part of the housing package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u68	Thank you very much for asking the question to be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Ms Anna Kornecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation with regard to the rate of liquidation of the housing books and the amount of the guarantee premiums paid is monitored, as well as the guidelines for the National Housing Programme relating to the adoption of new arrangements for the completion of the guarantee premium refund scheme are being complied with and a draft amendment to the Law of 30 November 1995 on State aid for the repayment of certain housing loans, the granting of guarantee premiums and the refund of guarantee premiums paid to banks, including an extended catalogue of actions authorising the payment of the guarantee premium, are now being prepared. As has already been noted, the project has been included in the so-called. part of the social housing package, in the package of laws supporting the development of housing, is the law of 28 October 2020, which today will be the subject of the work of the High House. The housing package should enter around mid-January 2021. According to the data we have, at the end of 2019 in our country, our citizens still had about 1 million unfinished, undecommissioned housing books, with around 14,000 of them being removed in 2019. We therefore estimate that quite a large part of the population is waiting for implementation, with the liquidation of these housing books due to the narrow catalogue of possibilities, the actions which entitle them to be liquidated and at the same time to receive the guarantee premium. Thus, these legislative measures which have been taken are as much in response as possible to the requests made by Members in the question of expectations to extend the catalogue of activities for which a guarantee premium can be applied. The draft law extends the current catalogue of expenditure for which you can apply for a guarantee premium, which currently includes, among others, a guarantee premium. expenditure relating to the renovation of windows or gas installations or electrical installations, with new investment activities such as installation, modernisation of gas installations, electrical installations, and additionally introduces expenditure relating to replacement, installation or modernisation of water and sewage installations. An even wider range of investments giving entitlement to the guarantee premium are expenditure incurred for the implementation of thermomodernisation projects. A detailed list of types of construction materials, equipment and services is laid down in the Regulation of the Minister for Development and Investment of 21 December 2018 on the establishment of a list of types of construction materials, equipment and services related to the implementation of thermomodernisation projects, but examples of items are set out in the Annex to that Regulation specifying expenditure relating to the purchase of construction materials or equipment or incurred for services. And these are: building materials for heating partitions, balcony panels and foundations which are part of the heating systems or used to protect against moisture, replacement of an external woodwork of windows, wall windows, balcony doors, external doors, garage doors, purchase, installation of a condensing gas boiler, purchase, assembly of a condensing oil boiler. For the first time, there was also a new spending title, namely the installation of an ecological heat source, i.e. heat pump, solar collector, photovoltaic installation or mechanical ventilation system with recovery of heat from the exhaust air. The next changes included in the amendment to the Act are the possibility of obtaining a guarantee premium by the owners of housing books who already have housing needs. They may apply for a premium in respect of the levy for a period of at least 5 years for the conversion of the perpetual right of use into the right of ownership. Owners of housing books who do not have their own premises but have entered into an institutional lease with access to ownership, the premium entitlement will be granted after payment of part of the price of the apartment at a total value of not less than 3% the replacement value of the premises. The right to close the book and obtain the bonus will be granted after the expiry of at least 12 months of the lease agreement for the institution's apartment. At the same time, the demands of the associations of book owners will be taken into account and the provision will be modified to allow the purchase of a single-family apartment or house on the secondary market also in a fractional part, provided that the property right concerns not less than 1/4 of the part of such a single-family apartment or house. We also decided to link the situation of the owners of the housing books with the possibility of renting a new apartment cheaply, in the future own, i.e. also in the model of access to property by including the owners of housing books in the priority criteria (Ringtone) when carrying out the selection of applications for the conclusion of a lease in the scheme The municipality, by means of a resolution of the municipal council which is an act of local law, inter alia. the rules for the selection of applications for the conclusion of a rental agreement, would always include a new priority criterion, and would also have to specify the point value of that criterion in order to be assessed in the selection of applications for the conclusion of a rental agreement. And one last thing. We've put in place a mechanism for registering housing books. The time for this is by the end of 2022, i.e. a 2-year period, such a transitional period, in order to be able to verify the number of actually existing booklets and estimate the total amount of budgetary commitments resulting from this. This is necessary, in turn, to assess whether further solutions need to be designed that will speed up the process of eliminating housing books, of course by further extending the service directory that will be associated with it. Banks that will register housing books will also be required to inform the holders of these books about the changing laws and therefore the new powers they have in relation to the possession of these books. Of course, the books, which will not be registered by that date, will not lose theirs, so to speak, the values, the power, will only need to register them later and unfortunately wait for some time so that we can budget for the resulting guarantee bonuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u70	Thank you very much. The additional question will also be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! During this additional period, you answered my additional questions, because this book registration issue is very important. I understand that the two-year period, which is for registration, will not result in the loss of the book's rights, because that's what you said here, too. I have questions: Is it really that the bank has the addresses of all those who have books? As you said, the bank will inform about this deadline and about the possibilities that are. Will such an information action be carried out effectively? Because we really can't let some of these books go out of date, cancel. I think it's also very important to make it clear that all these books, even though they won't be registered by that date, will still be active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u72	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! In part, I have already answered these questions, but that is the problem that banks and nobody else but the owners of the housing books have such information today. This registration system is about to give us knowledge of the actual scale of the phenomenon, hence this mechanism. He is not absolutely related to any loss of validity or the possibility of exercising the rights of the owners or holders of housing books. He wants to see if the data we have today, and we estimate that about 1 million Poles today have housing books, are real. Therefore, we will then be able to estimate which of our actions will accelerate the elimination of housing books, but of course understood as granting as much as possible these guarantee premiums and sort of clearing past commitments so as to effectively give the holders of housing books the opportunity either to meet their housing needs or to spend these funds to improve the existing quality of life. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. We move on to the next topic in which Mrs Joanna Borowiak will be asked as the first question. Mrs. Barbara Bartus. Excuse me. Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government program "Senior+" is a program aimed at individuals, mainly local government units. Thanks to this program, day-to-day welfare homes and senior+ clubs are created in the country. The Law and Justice Government allocates to this programme annually PLN 80 million. Within this programme, entities authorised under an open competition may apply for one-off financing for the establishment or modernisation of such an establishment, as well as for the financing of the running of such establishments. This year, the government's senior+ programme celebrates a specific anniversary, because it is already 5 years of its operation. The benefits of the Senior Programme, especially in small towns and rural environments, are enormous, especially in the area of activation and maintenance of social objectives such as the fact that seniors are more active. I remember meeting in Siedliska in the municipality of Bobowa, when the annual program of meetings of this club ended, and I remember the concern of the elderly, who on the one hand spoke with attention about what was organized, and with such great fear and care that it would not be. There was an arrest, but then in another job, in another place, these seniors could still be seeing each other, and they could be active. That is why I would like to ask the Minister in this context (the bell): How large are the number of day-to-day social services houses and clubs created by the Senior+ programme over 5 years? How much interest do local governments have in this program? What number of seniors have benefited from active spending time in homes and clubs? What does it look like at the time of the pandemic? Are senior clubs still functioning? And the most important question, Minister: What are the further plans of the Ministry for the continuation of the Senior+ programme?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u76	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for asking the question. We now ask Minister Stanisław Swed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. Maybe I'll start with the last line. Of course, we are in a completely different situation today, fighting the coronavirus and we know that older people are the most vulnerable. This is our primary task, when the pandemic began, to ensure the safety of our seniors. It was the word key to everything that all the actions we took were about ensuring the safety of our seniors and, on the other hand, the activity to keep our seniors active. This purpose is served by the programs we carry out. Mrs Bartus asked about the "Senior+" programme that works. With regard to absolute numbers, 777 senior support centres, 282 seniors' daily homes and 495 senior clubs, have been established within the five years of the programme's operation in the country. This year we have committed funding to 258 entities. These are dry numbers, but these numbers are behind people. What was very important to us, because we all had the fear of what was going to happen in our eyes, so that the clubs and the daily homes would not cease their activities. They're still functioning. From the first action it was e.g. sewing masks as well as other activities. Hence, the great credit of the people who participate in this, also of course local governments, because the program is aimed at local governments. It is worth recalling that the program consists in the fact that the senior's daily home can receive funding up to 300 thousand. PLN, in the case of the club - up to 150 thousand. zł. What is also important, the programme provides the means to continue, to support existing houses and clubs. The support is that there are certain amounts for each participant. In the case of a daily home this is the amount of PLN 300, the club - that is the amount of PLN 200. Hence today we can say that almost 20,000 have benefited from this aid. seniors and 672 local government units. So that's - I think - good information. Self-governments approach programs differently. This year there is a little less, which results from the pandemic period and Coronavirus, but when it comes to where the clubs operate, plus more than 200, which will join this program this year, this is a good announcement for the years to come. The Member asked about the continuation. I will remind you that this year - 2020 and in previous years this amount was at the level of PLN 80 million, but it was not fully used. So that we want the amount of PLN 60 million in the state budget in 2021 and the programme to continue, but this amount is only for 2021. It follows that there are fewer clubs and fewer daily residences, hence a smaller number. Of course, we are talking about the "Senior+" programme, but also an important programme is the "Supervisory 75+" programme, which gives the possibility to provide care services to local governments. This programme is addressed to municipalities of up to 60,000. We started with municipalities from 20,000, at the moment this program is aimed at municipalities at the level of 60,000. By purchasing services, this program can be implemented. We have also added to this programme such actions that the municipality may commission these services to entities, associations. It worked well, because that's why we can make a bigger offer. As far as security measures are concerned, of course, we were making recommendations, recommendations like clubs. Or day homes are supposed to work. In connection with these recommendations through the voivodship offices, it was possible, on the one hand, to decide how the club or the daily house is to function, on the other hand, in emergency situations - about shutting down centres. The important thing is that the clubs also operated remotely. It was a new challenge, and in this way, by contacting each other remotely, ladies or gentlemen, because in these clubs there are also gentlemen who can function. Also summing up: the programme is working well. Next year will be the next edition of the "Senior+" program. We're waiting for a budget settlement, and I think it's a good offer for our seniors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you so much for giving us the good news. We are all very happy that the Senior+ programme is developing so well, and with this large number of places. I am particularly pleased that this works well in small rural communities. An example of such a good functioning and good use of the "Senior+" programme may be, for example, the smallest municipality in the powiat Radejowski, the rural municipality of Bytoń. Minister! The Ministry of Family and Social Policy is taking steps to support seniors in a pandemic era, in particular seniors who are single, who have no one to take care of, who cannot count on help and support their loved ones. I wanted to ask you about this program, which was prepared by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, about the Senior Support Solidarity Corps. It is a program dedicated to lonely seniors and its essence is to help seniors in an epidemic situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you how big a group of seniors are using this program. I kindly ask you to answer the question of how President Andrzej Duda's aid scheme for the recovery workers works, which is extremely important and important in an epidemic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u80	Thank you very much, Member. We ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, Madam President. Support Senior Program, in which one of the important elements is the Senior Support Solidarity Corps works and - I would say - works very well. This program was aimed at older people over the age of 70, but of course we do not ignore anyone if one of the elderly or sick people or persons with disabilities wants to benefit from this program. The program is simple. The senior who wants this kind of help calls 22 505 11 11 and then he can ask for help, whether it's shopping, or with simple activities such as walking a dog. That's what volunteers are needed for. That is why there is a solidarity body of volunteer support. Over 10,000. people volunteered to this corps, more than 160 organisations, mostly youth organisations - and this is also a big success, by the fact that the young generation wants to help the elderly. Today more than 16 thousand have benefited from this programme. persons. Offices, city centres or municipal social assistance centres have the possibility to provide direct support. We have also launched an e-volunteer, which is the possibility of especially young people reaching the elderly, showing, teaching the very important thing today, which is the issue of digitalization, remote work or other activities. It goes on for example. about the handling of matters in the administration by e-government. It's an important factor, too, and it works. The third thing that you asked: we have also launched the so-called. volunteering for health care workers. This is the initiative of the President and Minister Marlena Maląg. It's just that if someone's already been through the corrhoid, they're called. well-being, it can declare itself and provide assistance to the pensioners of social services homes. This helpline of senior support can also benefit from such support. We have dozens of people who have already reported directly to this action. This is also an action that is needed to help social services in care, serving meals, but also in the ordinary conversation, which is also very important. Yesterday we also launched a support convoy for seniors, for homeless people - from the Material Reserve Agency. The measures will go through Caritas, through the Society to Help them. St. Albert's brother to those organizations that deal with homeless elderly people so that this help is comprehensive, so that no one, especially during the holidays, can stay without our help. This is what we're doing. It's what we're doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u82	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Joanna Borowiak, Lidia Burzyńska and Anna Milczanowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice have a question about the ministry's activities supporting the preparation and implementation of remote science. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! During the global pandemic of Cortipinus, schools, teachers, students, parents, leading bodies - all of them - faced a new situation, a new need to implement the school in a remote form. In the first wave of epidemic, the support of schools and local authorities by the Ministry of National Education together with the Ministry of Digitalization, as well as the Ministry of Health at some point, enabled the rapid implementation of a new form of teaching and its systematic improvement. E.g. over PLN 360 million has been allocated to the implementation of the programme "Remote school" and "Remote school+" which is addressed to municipalities. The municipalities submitted a very simple application, quickly received funding for the purchase of computer equipment needed for remote learning, for better, increased Internet access. Schools and establishments were also provided free of charge with disinfectant dispensers and the necessary protection measures. After preparing for the second wave of epidemic, the Ministry of National Education proposed further solutions to support local governments, schools, but also teachers in improving the remote teaching formula. Minister! Please answer the question: What actions did the Ministry of Education and Science take to support local governments and schools in implementing remote teaching in the second wave of the Coronavirus epidemic, how much funding has been earmarked for this purpose and how are they used by the beneficiaries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopeć corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, In the case of the second wave of pandemics, further steps have been taken, but it must also be said that those which you spoke about, namely those concerning the programmes of the Remote School and the Remote School+studio, were also carried out further, as the local authorities had 6 months to implement the expenditure that you spoke about. On the other hand, the next steps that have been taken under this support have been taken by us within the National Education Network. This is PLN 58 million and 60,000. tablets, so this is another very big support that the schools received - as part of multimedia packages. It is also about access to wireless Internet. This is also the support provided by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy: 130 million to support children's homes and foster families, 37 000. computers with software and 900 software sets for children with disabilities. It is also the actions of the government programme of the Active Table. This programme was implemented earlier, but in relation to 2020, we are talking about an amount of almost 35 million PLN. The change that occurred in this program also allowed for the purchase of laptops, i.e. the equipment that is most needed in remote teaching. This programme will be implemented in the following years, i.e. by 2024. The amount from the State budget foreseen for this purpose is 290 million. This support is also a question of growing education subsidies: for 2020 it is almost PLN 50 billion, so there has been an increase of more than 6%. For 2021 this amount is PLN 52 billion. If we looked at this growth in the period from 2015, this is an increase of 25.5%. As part of the increase in subsidies for 2020 the amount of 500 PLN is also foreseen for the teacher to be co-financed in the case of the purchase of computer equipment and enabling remote teaching. This is also another support that took place at the time. The support also includes teachers of government schools, i.e. over 13 thousand. teachers who work in these schools, and this is a support of PLN 6.6 million. As far as the next steps are concerned, legislative work is underway to apply a zero VAT rate to laptops and tablets, as well as to develop an integrated educational platform. This also applies to e-books, where we have 15 thousand. educational materials, 6.3 million user accounts. These are also activities that concern teacher training, including two programmes. One of them was started in 2019 - the Lesson: Enter. - and is continued, and here is the amount of about PLN 50 million. The second programme concerns training for teachers, and here is a further 50 million PLN. So there is a total of PLN 100 million to be used, and the training can be covered by PLN 100,000. teachers. Thus, measures have been taken both in the area of computer equipment and in the field of support provided for teachers. Other activities will also be undertaken, including: as regards the provision of information on how remote learning can be conducted. After the first pandemic period, there was a guide on good practices that could be used in this situation. A particular issue concerns the youngest pupils, i.e. classes I-III. In this respect, too, we have tried to support such measures during this first pandemic period, because this is a special moment, particularly difficult due to the age of students. In this respect, the main aim of these activities is for students to go to school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will continue. This also applies to specific support in terms of tutorials or the possibility of helping teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u86	Thank you very much. The supplementary question is asked again by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u87	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! The Minister has responded very comprehensively to my questions. Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive response, thank you for the summary of the measures taken by the Ministry of Education and Science before the second wave of the Coronavirus epidemic. The duration of the remote teaching formula, as we know, depends on the epidemic situation in our country. We all expect this, and we all hope that we will be able to stop this wave of infection as soon as possible, and we hope that the students will return to school as soon as possible, because the direct contact with the teacher is irreplaceable. Thank you again, Minister. I am particularly pleased with the Minister's announcement that further action will be taken in the event that the period of remote learning is to be extended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u88	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to respond? Please, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the actions taken by the Minister do not concern, of course, only equipment and direct support directed both to local governments and schools, as well as to teachers and students, but also relate to a number of actions, as I said, which also include methodological support. As I said, this is particularly important in the case of classes I-III. So, when these activities were suspended, a guide was created: distance learning in classes I-III, in order to specifically support this difficult educational phase in the case of remote learning. Of course, there are also other activities that are carried out in the Ministry, which concern preparation for external examinations, for the new, exceptional formula of the eighth grade exam, this year the school exam as announced. These new examination requirements are being developed, the work is completed, i.e. the Ministry took action very quickly in this area. In mid-December, the results of this work will be visible in the form of a regulation that will be signed and, at the same time, annexes will be issued to the examiners by the Central Examination Board, so that students, parents, teachers are aware of the requirements of the examination, but also about the examination formula itself, the scope of questions or the structure of the examination sheet, so that there is no doubt in this regard. This will also be followed by training which will start the Education Development Centre, then it will cover cascade activities, i.e. training for teachers run by methodological centres. It is about preparing full information, which will be common to both students, teachers and parents, so that these work can be carried out calmly. At the same time, of course, we are trying in some way, if possible, to follow the information of the Minister of Health and to look at the situation after the end of the break. At the same time, action is being taken to make the period of spring break as attractive as possible for students under the pandemic conditions in which we find ourselves. We are also considering options that will be possible after 17 January. We pay particular attention to what it will look like in classes I-III and in the case of students who are in the oldest classes. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u90	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider the information on the academic freedom package, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. A representative of the applicant may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall also be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Mr Zbigniew Girzyński, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I went to the plenary room for the debate, I met one of the Members of the opposition, with whom we have known each other and have been cooperating in agreement and substance for years. He asked me to defend the minister. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today is an opportunity - I think that for everyone - not only to defend the Minister or criticize him, but to debate, to lean together, very honestly, substantively on an important issue that is important and important to me as a Member, but also to a man who is a university lecturer every day. This is the foundation, the essence of science, not only of science in the Polish dimension, but of science treated universally. I mean freedom of expression, of opinion, especially when it comes to worldview, ethical and philosophical issues. This is so important and important that the very essence of higher education and the very word "university" of science as such are particularly important, important and point to some universalism of science as such. Many times in recent years - also in the previous term - the position of the authorities, especially the rectors of individual universities, has been strongly strengthened by the law. These are both public and private universities. Today, the rector has incomparably greater powers than he had a few, several years ago. On the one hand, it offers an opportunity for dynamic management of academic institutions, on the other hand, it creates a certain danger that the rector, with his own prejudices towards a particular lecturer or his own views - other than this lecturer - may enter into disputes with him of a non-essential, non-professional nature. In recent years, we have had several examples when disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against scholars of various universities because of their expression, often outside of lecture halls, which is worth emphasising political, religious, ethical views to which, like everyone else, they have the right, because we live in a country that values freedom of expression and freedom of expression and opinion. However, as far as these people are concerned, there have been investigations against them. What is even more worrying is that the current structure of the rules makes it possible for the rectors to initiate such proceedings without informing the person concerned that they are being conducted. Moreover, at the stage of the investigation, they may suspend such a person in the activities of an academic. So they can de facto apply some kind of preventive punishment far beyond all that is provided for in the Labour Code and the Law on Higher Education. This has been a concern to many communities, including academics, from which signals were sent to the Ministry to address this issue. We would like to obtain information from the Ministry, how the Ministry perceives this problem, what proposals it proposes in this respect, so that, being a researcher in science in Poland, one can be sure that no matter what religious, ethical, whether or not you have it, you will not be in your professional work for this reason either stigmatized or - that is absolutely excluded - punished for expressing your views. Especially when it is done at all outside the teaching system. After all, everyone outside of work has the right to express different opinions. There are representatives of the scientific world in each of the parliamentary clubs. The session is conducted by a highly venerable Mr. Prof. Richard Terlecki, in the benches of the Left is Mrs. Prof. Joanna Senyszyn, Mr.Dariusz Rosati sits on the benches of the Civic Coalition. As we can see, we have different political views. Passions are natural and obvious. We'll argue about it, but let's not let that happen. That's what Rydzyk said. Temptation. Let us make sure that we create such legal solutions, which will be freedom of belief (the bell), conscience, views provide for everyone, including those who teach at Polish universities. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u92	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Wojciech Murdzk. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as these questions are concerned, those issues which have been raised even in this submission by Mr Girzyński, this is a proposal for amendments to the Law on Higher Education and Science. It is a proposal that was literally newly communicated by presenting a package called the academic freedom package at a press conference on 9 December. It is important that, indeed, this response in the opinion of the Minister and his colleagues is the answer to perhaps a few cases that have occurred somewhere for many years. But these are cases that are extremely important in the life and functioning of universities. These cases are, as I mentioned, virtually individual, but they go back many years. In fact, it would be possible to list all the ministers who have dealt with this on a different scale. On the other hand, it is often the case that we move from this level of university discussion to the level of public, media discussion, and at the end, as much has been said here, the situation described, to some extent the codified one reaches the level of ministry, and then we try to do something about it. We are aware that the situation after the entry into force of the Law amending the Law on Science and Higher Education of 2018 has also clearly strengthened the position of rectors and the autonomy of universities. And while such problems are well and consistently resolved at the level of a given university - and that's a good thing, because then the case probably doesn't leave the university walls - otherwise this is sometimes the subject of public discussion, which doesn't necessarily serve the university and the community, because it can lead to different internal divisions. Therefore, with the awareness that through these proposals we are highlighting the role and autonomy of the rectors, we are giving a tool that will allow us to work precisely in these undoubtedly sensitive cases. The Rector, through the changes introduced by the Act, will be able to rely on specific provisions so that it can actually be settled. If this does not happen and from the university level we enter outer space, then of course the problem can go to the Disciplinary Commission at the Minister. If the decision of this committee ends the subject, there will probably be a finale, but if not, then the appeal court can already as a completely external institution strengthen this decision. We also give this tool to scientific workers who, based on these regulations, will know what to expect, will be more confident of what they are trying to pass on. And that is without such immediate sanctions that could immediately involve a statement, a debate with the initiation of proceedings and a switch. It's about combining the initiation of conspiracy with possible sanctions. These are phenomena, as I mentioned, few, but very, very sensitive. And I think that these decisions, relatively simple, reflect [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before all, the spirit of the constitution will help the rectors, the university authorities, but will also work in favour of academic teachers to normalize these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u94	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Hreniak, first Member of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u95	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Strengthening the rights to free academic debate is an important task for today's Parliament. I therefore thank you for the legislative initiative, which strengthens the guarantee of unfettered academic discussion and thus freedom to present your views. I agree that we need to strengthen universities as a place of free discussion, unfettered by political correctness. It is extremely important to guarantee a transparent, objective legal framework as a guarantee of a free debate. And here the Disciplinary Commission at the Minister has an extremely important role to play. Therefore, my question is: How many members and how will the composition of this Disciplinary Board be chosen at the Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very concerned about this idea, also as an academic lecturer for more than 20 years, because it is first of all interference in the academic autonomy of universities, as well as scientific institutions, but it is also something that clearly illustrates the issue that Tacitus once referred to as: the most numerous are the laws. You just want to regulate academic freedom through further regulations, some disciplinary committees at the moment. What does that really mean? I mean, you want to create a space at universities for worship, superstition, superstition, backwards so you can spread ideas that have nothing to do with science. This is what you think is freedom of science. I would like to remind you that since the time of the "Authentica habita" - Frederick Barbarossa of the 12th century - scientists enjoy full autonomy and this autonomy is the basis for the development of science and what we today can enjoy as a civilization. But what you are proposing is a return, looking as a cultural historian, before the Copenhagen coup, i.e. It's back before the card. Bellarmino, who tortured Giordan Brun for eight years and then prepared an investigation into Galileo. I mean, you don't like science. You need world views backwards, you need to preach superstition, you need to open the doors of the university to people who simply have little in common with science, and they're going to preach bubbleluki to a crowd of students. It's just unacceptable. From the point of view of the development of civilization, the whole university world - I am talking about universities all over the world - will laugh at Poland, that they return to the pre-Copernician times, because they allow to speak foolishness (the bell) at universities in the supposed name of freedom of speech. Think carefully about what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u98	Mr Marcin Kulasek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the reunion of the Polish clubs, Minister Czarnek announced a plan to introduce legal changes that would guarantee academic freedom for right-wing scientists. I quote the Minister: The basic thing that is visible today is the freedom of science. She's not here. The direction of development, especially humanities or social sciences, has gone wrong where we wish, and we must turn around. In this respect, the rules are designed and analysed, which will consist of a package that will be a freedom package, a package that will exempt academic teachers with conservative, Christian, national views from disciplinary responsibility and even from explaining their views. Minister Czarnka's statements suggest that academic freedom is only meant for scientists with conservative, Christian, national views. Hence my question: Will the disciplinary responsibility for the views be released from the staff of scientists with different views than those mentioned? Higher education should be an area of free communication and freedom of scientific research. This freedom should apply to all researchers and students. Can you guarantee that? If academic freedom is to be a true freedom, it must include not only people with conservative views, but also feminists, liberals and Marxists. During the Women's Strike, Minister Czarnek did not have much understanding for academic freedom. On the contrary, he suggested that universities where rector hours were announced during the strike could lose funds for investment and research. Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The 5th Constitution declares the autonomy of these universities. Minister Czarnek's statement on the allocation of funds for investment and research on the basis of non-essential criteria is an indication of a violation of this provision. In a categoric manner, I object as the chairman of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Science and Higher Education to the announcements of political repression against Polish universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u100	Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are talking here about a law that has a very nice name, but apart from that name and packaging, unfortunately there is no freedom there. I have the impression that the ministry will now act as the Law and Justice have been used to us for a long time, i.e. the minister will say one thing and the other will be done. Once university autonomy meant it was a university, the university senate decided who, what students they were taking. And it was already a very bad decision to change the admission mode of students from the one in which the entrance exams were, to the one in which the final exam is, i.e. the Matura. Matura, in which Minister Czarnek recently stated that he would now be at such a level that an averagely smart old junior high student would probably be able to pass it just so that this year's seniors could manage it. Unfortunately, it's going the wrong way. And here, when we talk about freedom of speech, it should also be undeniable at the university and there should be no problems with it. Meanwhile, what's proposed here is something that seems... It reminds me of so-called. The three of the Gorgetics, who walked around schools and scared the hell out of teachers and directors. Now there will be a supermission that will examine the conformity of the lecturer, the compatibility of the student and his views with a possible line. The university is to be a place for free exchange of views, even if these views are extreme. I had lecturers who boasted that they were Communists, and I had lecturers who were extremely free market - at those universities where I studied. I've never had a problem with that, and neither should the government ever have a problem with it. Minister Czarnek in one of the interviews said he was a freeman. So I'm asking you where this freedom is. Only in the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u102	Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should live in a free, democratic state, a state of law. Never should such a bill take place. It's the constitution that makes it very clear that... Who are these people? ...public authorities in the Republic of Poland remain impartial in matters of religious, worldview and philosophical beliefs, ensuring freedom to express them in public life. This applies to all citizens, all institutions in Poland. And today we have this situation - fortunately these are not very frequent cases - that very clearly at some universities this principle of freedom of expression, research, free academic debate is being violated. In recent years, there have been many such cases, such as disciplinary proceedings and the suspension of Prof. Nalaskowski or disciplinary proceedings against Prof. Ewa Budzyńska. And you have to react to situations like this. This bill gives the rector an instrument to assess the situation, and guarantees for all academics - guarantees of freedom of expression and freedom of scientific debate, also guarantees freedom for student associations and organisations. The idea is for our universities to serve the development of science, the investigation to the truth, the shaping of civic attitudes, because it is at universities that the attitudes of young Poles, which are transferred into their adult lives, are shaped. And there is no way in any area to narrow down the public debate on those views that Mr Bell referred to, saying that pseudoscience and backwards are going to take place at universities. This is your political correctness, your restraint of freedom... Mrs... Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. ...and your pointing out the direction in which Polish science and universities are to develop. This is unacceptable, as you propose. Thank you. [[Applause]] 20 seconds...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u104	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Just as Orwell's Ministry of Truth in 1984 was falsifying reality, just as the academic freedom package is really used to limit this autonomy and freedom. We are aware that Mr. Czarnek's intentions are best reflected in the threats he made to the university after the Women's Strike. We remember how he threatened to take away the funds for research, how he threatened other repressions against the universities that introduced the rector's day as part of their autonomy. We also remember one more thing that shows what Mr. Czarnek's approach to university autonomy is. Art. The 50th Higher Education Act makes it clear that authorities can enter the university, in this case the police, only in a situation of direct life or natural disaster. None of these elements appeared at the moment when the police entered the Warsaw University of Technology, violating its autonomy. Minister Czarnek talks a lot about freedom, talks a lot about autonomy, but what he really wants to do is gag schools. I want to review which studies are good, which are bad, what topics are important, what are bad. He's about to go down Orban's road and ban gender studies because he's gonna think they're against the philosophy of Law and Justice. The most important thing is... The autonomy of the university is a value from which Poland has always been famous. Even in the times of the Polish People's Republic, universities had a lot of scientific autonomy. What you're gonna do right now is you're gonna throw away all this work. This committee of yours that's supposed to take care of people you think are hurt by universities is nothing more than an attempt to take away the autonomy and freedom of universities. Therefore, words deceive reality again. It's not freedom. It's gags. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u106	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When Minister Czarnek took his position, he announced the work on these regulations and informed, quote, that: The Freedom Package will exempt academic teachers of conservative, Christian, national views from disciplinary responsibility. According to the reporters, today, disciplinary proceedings concern 20 university staff who have committed homophobic, anti-Semitic, or openly contrary to science. Dear Minister Czarnek, I'm sorry to remind you, sir, but it was your committee of ethics who reprimanded you for saying homophobic coloring. Isn't it so that you want to protect your own at all costs by taking advantage of the power you have in this position? Does this work result from your determination to help your allies? Minister, some academics are asking if this is the most important issue in a pandemic era, which should now be addressed by the Ministry of Science. He also asks you if you happen to be mistaken for freedom of any kind, because at the university, the lecturer is to achieve the results of education, its objectives and programme content in the spirit of freedom of speech. I would add that the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland and the Council of Science and Higher Education are opposed to such regulations. I would therefore like to ask: Who are these regulations to serve, and who is behind them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u108	Mr Marek Polak, Club of Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think that work on amending the Law on Higher Education and Science, i.e. on the so-called. the freedom package, it is nothing more than the creation of laws that strengthen the protection of equal treatment and the freedom to present their position, their point of view and the world view, as the provisions of the basic law clearly state. But according to an open letter, the rectors of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland express great concern for this reason, claiming, among others, that there is no need to create new regulations for defending academic values and freedoms. Therefore, I would like to ask what the academic community is afraid of, since this is a work on a law guaranteeing free learning for all, regardless of the world view: from right-wing, conservative to left-liberal. I would also like to ask if it is true that there are now more than 20 investigations and disciplinary proceedings against scientists about conservative views, and there are no proceedings against representatives of other views. What does that say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u110	Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, Mr. Vice Minister, because the Minister didn't honor us today, even though he opened another front of the fight against independence, with the autonomy of the university, which is astonishing, because it would seem that the more important challenges are facing the minister at the moment. But as you can see, the minister is interested only in causing noise again and putting on muzzles, not really looking at the problems of Polish science and higher education. The Minister proposes a package of academic freedom. This package has as much in common with academic freedom as the Party of Law and Justice with law and justice, which is unfortunately nothing, because it is really trying to violate the foundation of the functioning of universities, supported by the Great Charter of European Universities and the Erfurt Declaration, which state that one of the principles of freedom and good science development is the autonomy of universities, autonomy which allows them to constitute internal regulations. The second thing seems fundamental today is the separation of what is true, what is science and knowledge, from what is feyk, view, opinion or pseudoscience. And as the university's task is to stand on the side of truth and science, so the university's task is not - and, hopefully, it will never, no matter what happened - promote pseudoscience, pseudoscience or queer. A few months ago, a debate took place when Minister Gowin tried to compel universities to admit anti-vaccines and flatteners. Luckily, this idea has gone into oblivion, as well as Minister Gowin of the Ministry of Science, but it turns out that this string to establish muzzle science remains. Blackmailing money, blackmailing and forcing a certain world view through letters [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nor are publications conducive to freedom of science. Let's give the universities autonomy. It worked out, and it's gonna work out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u112	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Vice Minister! Art. 54 of the Constitution states that everyone is given the freedom to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information. Everyone, and so also academics. The Constitution is therefore a fundamental but sufficient package of freedom. All you have to do is not break it, and by exercising your freedom, it does not violate the freedom of others. So why would the Ministry want to break down an open door? The idea of the Ministry is curiosable and raises my questions about its source, because I remind the High House that not anyone else, and just the current Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek, professor of the Catholic University of Lublin, for his dehumanizing statements about LGBT individuals was to be held to disciplinary responsibility. He was supposed to be, but this time he was protected by the parliamentary immunity that the university called for. It is as if the Member prosecuted for theft first justified this theft by philosophical reasons, after which he brought to the Sejm a bill on legalization of the theft for religious or philosophical reasons. Well, of course, it's more freedom, but only for a thief. At the expense of honest scientists. I would also like to ask the Minister to clarify the need for a disciplinary commission to be set up at the Ministry and to remove the powers of independent universities to assess their employees. Does the Ministry of Education and Science want to stretch a protective umbrella over lecturers who in the teaching process will claim, for example, that the earth is flat, vaccination causes autism, in hospitals there are extras, and a group of people, let's say, Catholics, is not equal to normal people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u114	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u115	Dear Marshal, High Seym! In the critical voices that appear against the academic freedom package, we hear various concerns about initiating explanatory procedures for academic teachers in the context of the worldview. We know of such procedures being initiated by university authorities against those who expressed their beliefs for life or religious beliefs, especially Christian ones. We know an example of Professor Aleksander Nalaskowski from the UMK in Toruń suspended by the rector of the university in the duties of an academic teacher after writing a column to the weekly Network, we know an example of Professor Ewa Budzyńska describing the family in Christianity, on which at the University of Wrocław it was decided to impose a disciplinary penalty. Minister! Are there any known cases of opening explanations to academic teachers expressing their beliefs about gender ideology? The opposition here is nervous about the project, threatening to restrict the autonomy of the university. We hear from Members of the opposition that we are trying to limit this autonomy or introduce censorship. Minister, will the academic freedom package preserve the autonomy of Polish universities? And such a remark to your Members on the left side of the room: Please do not shout so nervously, because if we are talking about autonomy, we are talking about all views, we are talking about the freedom to express them, and you have your own definition of autonomy, which you have just shown in your speeches from the Seym Speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u116	Thank you. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sleep. Dariusz Gawin, an outstanding intellectual and essayist, proved in one of his excellent essays that there was no agreement between democracy and the university because the university is not democratic. And he was right. Because, as Mr Girzyński said here, who compared the parliamentary hall with his natural conflict with the university, this is an absolute mistake. The university has an anti-democracy in it, which means that the university community, I repeat, self-government, independent of the state and other authorities of the university community. eliminates opinions that he considers unscientific, harmful or stupid. This is actually the essence of the University of Bologna and Oxford. In the meantime, the Minister wants the opinion of the Anti-Conception to be an abortion to be protected by the Minister of Worldview. In fact, in the final we will have an open door for barbarism, ignorance, stupidity, which will be interpreted as worldview and philosophy. In the end, I would like to point out that there is an old liberal truth that, as the government takes on freedom of science, it is the same as taking on any other self-government freedom. He says freedom, that means he's gonna pick it up. He says, "True, that means he's gonna lie." And he says we want to help, which means he wants to destroy. Just as you have supported the Polish justice system, which is already something completely different from the European justice system. That's why I have a question for the Minister at the end: Doesn't it seem to the Minister that he resembles awkward guys coming to the restaurant and saying, "And we're gonna protect you now?" This resemblance is striking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u118	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Vice Minister! As I understand the intentions of Minister Czarnek and his idea of the freedom package, freedom will consist in the fact that everyone and everyone will have the right to say anything, even ridiculous. And, for example, if someone's worldview, religious or philosophical belief determines that someone's action, in order not to see the crime of pedophilia, is equivalent to the support of pedophilia, then it is possible, I understand, at the university, to tell students that not only PiS and the United Right in its entirety, but also Minister Czarnek supports hiding children's rapists with his whole life? Is that what freedom is all about? In such a release, the academic freedom package will protect its own and will be a whip on the insubordinate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u120	Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a very important proposal from the Ministry regarding respect for freedom of education, freedom of speech, research and freedom of academic debate. I stress, for everyone without exception. Unfortunately, as the Minister mentioned in his speech, there are, fortunately, few cases of lack of guaranteeing this freedom and freedom at universities. It should be stressed that the proposed solutions refer directly to the provisions of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of Minister! The proposed amendment is also related to disciplinary proceedings. Therefore, I have a question. Please explain whether the academic freedom package does not allow the prosecution of perpetrators of mobbing and harassment in disciplinary proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u122	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do you know where this quote comes from? An assessment of the probability that the death of passengers on the TU-154 aircraft took place in a different location than the wreckage near Smolensk, and the wreckage itself and any information provided by the Russian party are merely staged. Shame. Yes, this is one of the research tasks of scientific problems in the department: mathematics and computer science from the 1st Smolensk Conference. Curiosity? Of course. And why do I remind you of that? Because speaking stupidly, even though it may be considered freedom of speech, should not be present at universities. It is said that the package meets the expectations of some academic communities, paying attention to individual cases, but nevertheless this restrictive freedom. What environments and individual cases are we talking about? Is this about the statements of a professor from the University of Silesia who was accused of making statements based on her own, imposed on students a world view of value? Freedom of speech is one of the most important values, and academic debate should be conducted in an atmosphere of respect for different rights and unfettered expression of views. An integral part of this freedom is also the right to preach controversial views, unless they are illegal and do not violate the dignity of the human person. How can we protect against discrimination when this is presented as an expression of the world view? What about disfellowshipping hate speech? The next question concerns disciplinary proceedings. What will be the impact of the university on these proceedings? Will it only be for the ministry? Because if so, there is a concern that, depending on the political lines of the Ministry's management, the case-law of these proceedings will be politically dependent. You can't be trusted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you're talking about freedom, that means you're gonna limit that freedom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u124	Mrs Monika Pawłowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u125	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you a question about the so-called. Minister Czarnek's freedom package. Why would something like this happen? Why are you shooting another bat for the academic community? The Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland states that there is no need to do so, because it is enough to stop interfering in the life of universities, and students want you to stop threatening to take their universities' funds and not interfere in teaching. What does the Ministry not understand when it comes to the concept of freedom? You can do more dozens of conferences, but if the Minister of Education and Science is you who still have students, students will have where they have, and some people will not have any rights according to him, then the academic community will still not respect you or take you seriously. Your regulations will cause further waves of rebellion. As the Minister of Translation explains, it is about better protecting scientists about conservative and Christian views, because, according to the Minister of Science, universities are now dominated by people with left-liberal views. Read: Teachers like Minister Czarnek will be able to speak the Minister's language without respect for any rights and respect. And that's where I quote. The minister spoke earlier about marriages of same sex: something like this does not exist in nature at all, it is like a dry puddle, marriage is just a relationship between a man and a woman. He also said that he would always be opposed to the promotion of perverts and perversions. That's what he said about homosexuals. He said he wouldn't submit, and no high school rectors' conference would stop him from saying that. On the other hand, he talked about women and the birth of children: a career in the first place, and then maybe a child, leads to serious consequences. Women... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, can I have another sentence? No. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. The consequence - a woman's translation that she doesn't have to do what God created her to do. This package is an authorisation to violate human rights, a mandate to disrespect and trample on the freedom and autonomy of universities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u126	Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, you may be here tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, changing the name of Minister Czarnek by all the cases. But we have an important bill here today. As for the fact that this bill is needed, I have no doubt. This discussion here in this courtroom has already shown it today. Minister, I am interested in a different matter, a subject, it seems important - although detailed, it is substantive. Why do you propose in the Act that university rectors should not have the right to suspend academic teachers in the course of the investigation? Thank you. Mask. Behind the mask...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u128	Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In three points to three people who are sitting in this room, but the message, I think, will be clear to everyone. I'm addressing Zbyszek Girzyński because we know each other, and I say it on purpose, kind of like a dorm to a dorm. You put the cart in front of the horse, and you know very well that this is a nonsense solution, and it's no use to anyone. When you make a bill in one year that gives so much power to the rectors, why do you go to college and want to pan out there? Let the rectors handle it. Don't open that door. And I say it in the name of the future. Do not open this door if you take anything else seriously in Poland, because at opening this door where you give the keys to universities to ministers, politicians, etc., you will drive yourself at the end. And remember, Zbyszek, this day is gonna touch you what you're promoting today. Because I didn't hear... [[Game in the O.R.]] Now I say, don't disturb, some culture. But really... Because you didn't say a word when the police went to the university. That's not true. Okay, then come out here... You're lying now. No, I don't... I said, I publicly protested. Mr. Marshal... But now you're having a discussion with an MP... I'll be... If you're talking to me, I'm talking to you. Then come here and straighten it out. But give me your opinion... Exactly. ...and fills his time, and he's not discussing with the envoys in the courtroom right now. Come here... Listen to what I'm saying. Don't lie to me. Zbyszek, distinguish between lies and ignorance. It's basic at the dorm. The Member does not understand what I am saying to him. So apologize to me for lying, and I'd be happy to hear your explanation about going to the university. Apologize for insulting me. I didn't offend you. Distinct the lie... Mr President, do you understand what I'm saying? Mr. Marshal... Please give your opinion, not discuss it with the envoy in the courtroom. But I can't, you see. You started it. This isn't a committee, this isn't a cockroach, this is a seym. Mr. Marshal, can I speak now or not? You still have 10 seconds. That's what freedom is all about. Good. That's freedom. To Minister Murdzk - you represent a lot of common sense. If there are really good intentions, let the Members who know about it meet here (the bell), and let us agree on what we really need to do. And to you, Marshal Terletki, to mention when we went to you for lectures - Mr. Marshal, you yourself know that the reform two years ago reduces the importance of Polish language in research... Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club. ...you know what historians are writing about in connection with your group, you see what happens to social sciences. That's what needs to be done, not inventing artificial subjects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u130	Mr President, you have exceeded your time. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u131	Dear Minister, building the ministry of truth, producing only the right truth for the trolls, protecting us from criticism by graciously giving us the ruling great brother and the right party! You have destroyed primary and secondary education, which in international statistics quilt down. Now you're going to college. After all, no one has any delusions that you are talking about freedom to preach unscientific ideas. Would it be possible, instead of vaccinology, to claim that we are not going to vaccinate ourselves because we are not? Why do we need medicine if we can trust the sick of Mary or God's mercy? Already, instead of the scientific category, we accept the category of conscience clause. Conscience is supposed to be more important to doctors than university medicine. These are the unscientific views that you want to preach to ensure safety. Don't challenge your conscience with science. Only the CUL and the Papal University in Krakow are guaranteed in the concordat funding from the state budget. Granting other universities and ecclesiastical departments with public money can only be considered by the authorities. In the last few years, we have spent billions of zlotys on Catholic universities - 14 rather than two. You are carrying out a program announced almost 30 years ago by Catholic politics. It is not important whether there will be capitalism, freedom of speech or prosperity in Poland. The most important thing is for Poland to be Catholic. You added as Law and Justice: backwards. Darkness covers the ground and Polish universities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u132	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this question about opposition: What is academic freedom for you? What is the definition of academic freedom in your reasoning? Are politicians of different groups... [[Game in the O.R.]] The minister doesn't call the professor on the rug. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to respond. Please don't disturb me. Do politicians of different groups have a chance to have a public debate on this subject? Because you really are restricting this freedom, our freedom to public debate on the topics we are talking about here. I would like to address my question to the Minister regarding the role of rector. Does this new law on which we are proceeding impose new responsibilities and new tasks on the rectors? As well as the question: How widely is this new law to be consulted? Will she go through the next stages and broad consultation so that we can approach this issue honestly? Is it gonna be like always? Because as you can see, the opposition is still afraid of a real public debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u134	Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will make decisions with regard to universities where the so-called. Rector hours, even encouraging students to participate in demonstrations - you announced Minister Przemysław Czarnek. The university's mission is to develop science and seek the truth, at least since the Humboldt brothers. The investigation into the truth implies dispute and tolerance for different views. Investigating the truth implies accepting that there may not be just one true truth. Exactly. Such a dispute cannot be dealt with under conditions of terror and financial sanctions. The university professors behaved decently, according to the mission of their universities. And the minister says, "My truth is better than yours." My truth is stronger because your truth will be blocked by punishment, financial repression. Your freedom is better than ours. Timothy Snyder, one of the well-known American historians, recommends that we listen to dangerous words because they announce the collapse of a democratic rule of law. Your words are dangerous. You need obedient professors who don't have the chance to teach students decency because they're not decent. I'm an assistant at the University of Silesia in Katowice. Something amazing. At the same university where Professor Budzyńska's office interrogates students, the DA's office interrogates a disciplinary officer. To the scientific truth. Free university is as important as free elections, free courts and free media. Without a free university, there's no freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u136	Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek claims that the academic freedom package will support the pluralism of views at universities. But is science in Poland supposed to concern the worldview and opinion, or is it still scientific theory? And the pluralism of ideas will mean what in practice? Are we going to have to listen to the nonsense that contraception is an abortion, as one sociology professor preached? Will we be forced to listen silently to insults such as those lecturers from the University of Rzeszów, made against protesting women who called them dull and truckers after having an abortion of the brain? Will such academic freedom be strengthened? Is the Freedom Package designed to strengthen the development and freedom of representatives of the world of science, but can it release responsibility for spoken words? Let me remind you that there was also disciplinary action against Minister Czarnek. He was to answer to the committee for the words spoken on the air of the regime television: Let's protect us from the ideology of LGBT and stop listening to these idiots about human rights or equality. These people are not equal to normal people. And this is said by Minister Czarnek, Minister of Education and Science. The Minister wants to put an end to religious and worldview proceedings. Probably such a waiver, thanks to the provisions you wish to introduce, would then cover his own case if it were not for the fact that he had been protected by the parliamentary immunity in advance. How does the Ministry intend to implement the guarantee of freedom and pluralism? Will this guarantee impunity for xenophobia, homophobia, hate speech and fake news from the cathedral? Is this another instrument for interfering with the autonomy of universities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u138	Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I received such correspondence dated on October 26 and 27 conducted with employees, students of the University of Wrocław by the rector of Przemysław Wiszewski. I will not read everything to you, but we have such excerpts here: I know that many of you, both workers, PhD students and students, are actively involved in protests despite the epidemic threat - concern, I am glad that you care. But we continue to read: If there is any problem with participation in demonstrations, remember that you can ask to be contacted by the rector authorities. We will provide you with all possible assistance, including legal support. Soon we'll give you a guide on what to do in case of police arrests. Scandal! As announced earlier, we have prepared and announced two tutorials: how to behave in the event of police detention, or maybe it will happen to you, and a list of lawyers at your disposal - this is, of course, a list of lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that the same attitude can expect, for example. Professor Ewa Budzyńska. She's on the other side, but she'll also be given instructions on how to proceed, as in connection with these accusations that [[Applause]] are directed at her address, she's supposed to behave, and a list of lawyers, a list of people, university employees who are willing to help her. My question is simple because, of course, you're right. Academic freedom, freedom of academic debate, freedom of science. Of course, university and science are absolutely the most important thing. But is what I quoted from the correspondence of the rector of the University of Wroclaw still a science? And does that apply to science? Is that just politics? Ladies and gentlemen! It's one thing. You talked a lot about academic freedom, so I wanted to share this information with you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the question I'm interested in, the matter we're discussing, is a matter of plagiarism proceedings. How will this work under the new rules? How will they simply be implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, Rector!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u140	Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regarding the case of Prof. Budzyńska from the University of Silesia, Professor Budzyńska had a very high level of protection: Ordo Iuris and the police, who had been interrogating students for hours, because it was the students who did not agree to pass on information that hit other religions in their classes, information that is not scientific information that discriminates against other people, people with different views, other orientations. It was the students who rebelled and reported, as you say, to the rector who responded to this situation, and it was the students who were later being repressed. How? That's not true! They were repressed for being on the side of the truth. They were interrogated at the police station for a few hours, a prosecutor's case was opened, which, of course, after many... That's repression? ...I don't know if weeks or months have been abandoned. If someone wants to take the side of science in situations where they encounter untruth and what you call it, a right-wing view, then he is in a situation of repression. But I wanted to ask Minister Czarnek, whom I have not yet seen in the Sejm, even though I am vice-president of the Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth, he did not show up at the committee meetings, he is not here today, but yesterday on TV he presented the freedom package at the press conference, and today there is no courage (the bell) to stand before us and talk, I wanted to ask the Minister if he consulted this package with the Conference of Rectors of the Academy of Polish Schools. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club. You're welcome. On November 20th, the conference took place with an invitation to the Minister... Thank you, Member. ... talking about the fact that such regulations are unnecessary, that they are to have a discussion inside the university. Has such a discussion been held? [[Applause]] This is a very reasonable step. Let the rectors read the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! You're not here, Minister! High Izbo! Mr Czarnek in his proposed freedom package shows a lack of courage, proposes half-measures, and there is also some kind of distortion of left-equality and conceptual genderism. The healthy core of the nation, which has entrusted its future to the United Right, awaits courageous steps, firm steps. One such step would be to implement a national programme for the evaporation of the scientific community. The inspiration for this bold programme proposed to the Minister is written to me 71 years ago by Eric Arthur Blair, known more widely as George Orwell, a novel. This evaporation would effectively remove from the memory of scientists and teachers all kinds of traces of insubordinate thinking. George Orwell points out in his novel "1984'the year 2050 as the one in which all words that could express subversive views are to be removed from the dictionary. As you can see, political preachers draw from Orwell. I also recommend such courage to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u143	Mr Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland believes - so we must read - that the concern for freedom of expression of worldview, philosophical or religious beliefs is an interference in the autonomy of universities. Does the Minister agree with that opinion? The project provides for responsibilities for the rector, such obligations as to ensure that the rector upholds freedom of teaching, scientific discussion and scientific research. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u145	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Six months ago, Minister Czarnek, not yet a minister, and being a scientist at the Catholic University of Lublin and a Member, said on public television about non-heteronormative persons: Let's stop listening to idiots about some human rights, about some equality. These people are not equal to normal people. For these words, the rector of the Catholic University of Lublin referred the case to the disciplinary officer of this university and called for Mr Czarnek to be removed from the walls of that university. The case isn't settled until today. It's been suspended. The so-called one. The freedom package, which assumes that the academic teacher to whom disciplinary proceedings are pending, has the right to submit a notification to the Disciplinary Board in front of Minister Czarnek, means that Minister Czarnek will be able to make a notification on his own behalf. In addition, this freedom package assumes that all the disciplinary proceedings that have been made so far will be terminated, i.e. all the 20 proceedings that my colleague, Mr Szopiński from the Left, has spoken about will be terminated. So this whole package is supposed to be used by Minister Czarnek, his colleagues and his colleagues to put aside disciplinary matters against themselves, himself. Secondly, I wanted to draw attention, especially to Mrs Borowiak and other Members of the PiS, who do not seem to understand that the university is an area of scientific debate, not a worldview or religious debate. The scientific theory differs from the worldview or religion, that it requires justification in the results of experiments, measurements, experiments, explanations that are subject to control based on data. Worldview or religion doesn't require that. So this freedom that we are talking about is freedom to hide for the worldview or religion, or freedom to spread nonsense, nonsense, prejudices without support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in hard scientific data, freedom to preach homophobic or misogynistic views expressed by Minister Czarnek. Well, well, what an expert in science. Even worse... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u147	Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If anyone had doubts about the need for an academic freedom package, I think that these doubts are no longer present after the opposition Members' speeches. I was particularly saddened by Mr Grupiński, who said that by introducing a package of academic freedom, we want to protect the right to preach superstition or foolishness. Bullshit. I would like to ask the Member who should judge whether the academic teacher who preaches any views on religion, worldview or philosophical views is already saying foolishness or speaks the sacred, revealed scientific truth? Who should judge that? Because, of course, most of the time, it happens that those academic teachers who express some Christian views are being put before disciplinary committees. What is the Christian view of hitting another person? I have an example about Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań, where Fr. Professor Paweł Bortkiewicz has been put before the disciplinary commission many times. And what did they do... Mr Snapshot, don't disturb me. I would also like to ask Mr Grupiński whether the theological departments can work at universities. I suppose, according to you and the other speakers of the opposition, they shouldn't work because it's superstition, right? I have not heard Mr Grupiński speak in defence of freedom of expression in the case of Fr. Professor Bortkiewicz. And that's what you're hypocritical about, because I don't think you understand that this package of academic freedom works both ways. You can imagine such a university where (the bell) before the disciplinary commission will be placed a teacher who will preach left-wing or liberal views and then will benefit from the opportunities that this package of freedom gives. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. And you should remember that, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u149	Mrs Zofia Czernow... Mr Grzegorz Napieralski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I've already said in committee that sometimes it's better to keep quiet than to say bad things than to talk bullshit, and yet you do it all the time. But I hope that the Minister of Education, Science knows well that there is such a record in Poland, in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, a record which speaks about the so-called. The lie of Auschwitz. There's an article in this law, art. 55, which says that denying or questioning Nazi crimes is a crime. And as the Minister knows, there are authors who really deny this horrible crime. These are people who have scientific titles, and are still preaching such heresy, so insulting, actually hitting us, on our nation and referring to the freedom of science. Except it has nothing to do with freedom, because freedom of science patronizes the search for the truth, not the justification for the lie. Your new rules, Minister, are in conflict with the provisions of the IPN Act. Anyone will be able to deny, for example. crimes in the Polish nation from the university cathedral, citing your principles. Unfortunately, I don't think you're really aware of what kind of demon you're letting into the public debate, into our lives. You think you're fighting some imaginary hostile attitudes - gender, LGBT, I don't know what else is on your mind, and you're really letting demons into anti-Semitism, Fascism, anti-Polonism. Demons of lies instead of truth. The ethos of science with its freedom and sovereignty are founded on searching for and finding the truth based on verifiable methods. Science is not an opinion, it is a strict practice of thinking and analyzing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It may lead to controversial findings, but it is not a controversial view. Another 30 seconds, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. 30, I'm sure it's not. The view is not subject to intellectual verification, science is. Therefore, among others. We're fighting the Oświęcim lie, not because it offends... Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. ...but also because it denies the knowledge gathered by professional historians. Thank you, sir. He denies our efforts to know and understand the truth. Thank you very much, sir. It opens... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u151	Thank you, sir. You've exceeded your time in an unacceptable way. Time!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Czarnek! After completing the course of knowledge about society in primary school, you should know what the sources of law are in Poland. The basic and highest-ranking source of law is the constitution. Art. 70 constitutions guarantee the autonomy and freedom of universities. That's it, and that's enough to keep the universities free. If you want to set up an additional committee to ensure university freedom, that means you have a problem with university freedom. It means you have a problem with science at all. Because this committee is here to fight the science you're afraid of, e.g. You're fighting an in vitro method, which is a scientific method, and you want the university not to criticize the nonsense that is being said, for example. In the medical department by anti-vaccines, because that's exactly what it's for. This committee is so that your business partner Tadeusz Rydzyk can come to the law department of some university and say: pedophilia is a temptation, not a crime. And don't let anything happen to him about it. Minister, since you are setting up such a committee, I would like to ask you how you implement the constitution, autonomy and freedom of the university, punishing disciplinaryly students and universities for participating in strikes. And what you've done, Minister - I'm also talking about art. 70 constitutions - after the police invaded the Warsaw University of Technology, or a free university? What exactly were your actions after this intrusion? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u153	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As I hear that a man who just wanted to pursue students and academic teachers for preaching his views on protests, views that are not in line with the conduct of the government and the Party of Law and Justice, wants to introduce a package of academic freedom, I honestly wonder what you want to preach at these universities. Perhaps the slogans of pure blood and white Europe, whose pursuit did not come lightly to you and which have not yet been settled, even though they are not in line with the basic provisions of our constitution? Or slogans about the fact that people with sexual minorities are not equal to normal people and that universities are free from LGBT zones? Or do you wish to preach the slogan that women do not have access and the right to improve their qualifications, because their place is at home, waiting for a husband who, after cheating, has the right to return and receive support from his wife? Ladies and gentlemen! Basic rights and civil liberties are enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And it is enough that the environment of Law and Justice, as well as Mr Czarnek, will respect this constitution with their own person, guaranteeing citizens freedom and equality regardless of political views, regardless of membership of particular social groups, to sexual minorities and regardless of the sex they represent. Freedom, equality, tolerance, Minister, these are the basics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Freedom rights enshrined in the Constitution and please observe them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u155	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I'd like to refer to one speech. Well, someone said that somehow there was a person who used such a phrase that contraception was an abortion. And you stand up for that person, you say it has something to do with, I don't know, Christianity, Catholicism, but it has nothing to do with Christianity. This is some kind of private variation of a person at college, and you can't stand behind it because you're hurting Christianity, making Catholics look like idiots. And that's just ridiculous of you. Stop doing that. The Rector - we have just heard from your Member - the Rector wants to help students, the fight. Is it really a problem for you that the rector wants to help students? That's what the scientific community is for. You don't understand the basic issues of freedom and college life. Go to college, ask what it's like, and then come with the projects. A disciplinary committee will be set up to guarantee freedom at universities - it is difficult to find a more perverse and twisted justification, but it also shows real goals. The point is to suffocate the independence of the university and force the academic community to tolerate foolishness, such as those I was just talking about, to force them to tolerate hatred and to recognize pseudoscience gibberish as real science. The best proof of university freedom is that people like Minister Czarnek receive academic titles. I understand why he's not here. He would be a living witness to the hypocrisy of this project. But there's something even worse about it. This is another element of the fight against the quality of Polish education, Polish science. That's the kind of project you kill that quality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore - I ask you very much - if the government really cares about the quality of science, then withdraw from this project. It will be your good decision for Polish science. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u157	I now ask that the representative of the applicants from Mr Zbigniew Girzyński speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of my fellow Members has decided to address me personally. I wish he hadn't left because I wanted to answer him myself. We'll pass it on. First of all, it is true that we have been by name for many years, because we know each other for many years, but I will speak as a historian, and when it comes to the history of Polish parliamentarianism, I have followed his history over 100 years from regaining independence and I think it's pretty good. I have never met a custom when it comes to people who are often close to me, who are called by name and who are right in the courtroom. It's something unimaginable that never happened and shouldn't have happened. Just as you do not enter this room in short shorts, the use of common forms of courtesy should also be preserved. That's the first thing. Second thing. If someone has decided to turn to someone and accuse him of something - where he was, why he was silent, why he didn't react - it is worth checking whether this man is being harmed by accident. Well, I'm gonna have to quote myself to answer that question. This is about my statement to the editor Robert Mazurek from the RMF FM on December 1st in the morning conversation at this station. I say not only as a politician, but also as a professor at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, that the violation of university autonomy should never take place. All who are responsible for this should suffer severe consequences. This concerned events related to the Warsaw University of Technology. In my further statement, I spoke of the strictest possible consequences, if necessary, and this came out in the investigation of the resignation of the Chief Police Commissioner. Therefore, I am the last person in this room who can be accused of not defending the autonomy of the university, even if in the heat of the wrong decision people who are politically accountable to ministers in my government do so. Third thing. This debate, perhaps like no other debate, has made it clear how much this law needs, how much we need solutions that are some kind of safety valve. The idea is to respond to arbitrary decisions that may result in rematching people with whom we disagree, with whom we do not like. Unfortunately, such a thing can happen. If you are referring to the Constitution, it is good, but if the Constitution were to solve everything, we would not need the Civil Code, the Penal Code and a whole range of solutions in Polish law, because the Constitution would solve everything. Detailed solutions are always needed to clarify and clarify things. One very important thing. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, quoting Professor Dariusz Gawin, killed him until I was scared that something may have happened in the last few days, which escaped my attention. Luckily, I wanted to make a public announcement, calm down those who might have heard that the professor was alive and doing his best. So unfortunately, you were as prepared for this debate as Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, did not even check the basic facts. With my huge sympathy for Mr Napieralski: Mr, there was one case of negationism in Poland, the lie of Oświęcim, one at the university. In fact, this person has been dead for years and lost her job at the time. One. But we're talking about something completely different. This provision or those provisions are provisions concerning disciplinary proceedings which in no way repeal the provisions of the Penal Code or other laws concerning this particular legal solution in this case, so please be calm. This is definitely not the kind of thing that's going to happen in this area. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of speech is a value. When you invoke it - and it is good that you often invoke it - be consistent in the other direction. This is not a recipe, as it has often been accused, which is intended to serve a specific conservative ideology. No, he's supposed to defend everyone, because just as the rector can happen, who has leftist views, which a right-wing lecturer might not like for one reason or another, so it can also work the other way. And there is a mechanism that makes there a safety valve in such a situation, that if the procedure is initiated and not initiated by the Minister, there may be a reaction from the appropriate minister to defend freedom of expression for scholars as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u159	Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Mr Wojciech Murdzk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of questions, emotional questions. On the other hand, many questions basically referred to certain intuitions, to the announcements concerning this regulation, not to the project itself, which was recently presented practically yesterday. I can conclude from the statements that individuals have read the provisions of this project, while many of the statements concerned the evaluation of the announcements. I will ignore all those statements that were an attempt to assess the Minister, because every thread could be treated separately, but I would like us to focus on the draft submitted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with a bit of a situation - perhaps not a precedent - exceptional, because the presentation of this project took place before the inter-ministerial agreements, before the whole legislative process, i.e. before planning it in the work of the government, a permanent committee, before the adoption of the final version by the Council of Ministers. This theme has been resounding and needs to be said and put forward. We are in a comfortable situation, because we have a lot of time to talk, and I think a lot of doubts will be explained and we will get answers to questions. One of the issues that was going through was the thesis about the creation of some super committee to judge. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a process that requires even certain deadlines, but I would like to remind you that there are disciplinary committees at universities, which are committees supporting the rector, and that is all that can get the finals at the university, which gives us the opportunity to do so. There is a Disciplinary Board at the General Council of Science and Higher Education, and the committee at the Minister is not an idea related to this project. The Commission at the Minister's office, let me remind you, has been in existence since 2014. Therefore, it is not even imputable to these previous governments, but to the previous governments it is necessary to assign, therefore it is not an idea of some supercensor with unknown competences. We are simply showing that, so to speak, a process, and we are not setting up some supernova body, although we must remember that these committees have their term of office, there will be a personal change with the change of term, as with all the cadence bodies. This project will certainly be consulted and with conferences of the rectors of all types of universities, and with the Scientific Policy Committee. I think that the Parliament of Polish Students will also be involved. I think that the PhD students will want to speak, but the discussion is just beginning, as I say, on a matter that is very clear about the functioning of universities. And it's a request to look at it in such a way that we're still going to talk about it. Let me remind you that it is absolutely not the task of this project to interrupt the normal course of events related to plagiarisms, mobbing, with all other things, this project does not apply. All these processes will be and should be conducted in a mode that is appropriate to the phenomenon. I would like to stress that we are not talking about a market, we are talking about universities and the project concerns the academic community, that is (The bell), what is said, what is created at the university, companies specific people with scientific titles, participates in this academic community, students participate. We are not talking about regulation of some kind of expression outside of the academic community. Therefore, the thesis about charlatanism, about some things that have nothing to do with science, involves asking about the status of Polish science, Polish scientists, but it is necessary to proceed carefully so that sometimes we do not get involved in the game, whether on the one hand or on the other hand, or not representing any party at all. These tools, which may still be developed during the debate, during the parliamentary debate, in agreement with the higher education community, will be good solutions that will serve everyone on an equal footing and will provide an additional, stable tool for the rectors to benefit from the autonomy of universities in these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u161	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of items 15 and 16 of the agenda: I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Augustyn to provide the reasons for the bill in print No 689.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a rare situation, although I hope that it will become more frequent, that we are pleased to debate a project that is the result of the work of the Committee on Petitions. This is a proposal that consists of two projects. The second draft will be discussed in a moment by the chief of the petition committee, Mr Sławomir Piechot, so I will leave to him the part that talks about the petition committee itself. I am very pleased that we have an instrument, we have a tool that in some ways allows citizens to fix the law, to show what is not working well, is ineffective, imprecise. As a result of this little effort, but with good results, we can improve the law so that it is precise that it really responds to the needs of citizens. I'll take care of one print, one part of the proposal. This is a bill that was sent to the Sejm after the decision of the petition committee. The petition was sent to the committee by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, who allowed his data to be made available. The petition was subject to a request to amend the article. 253 § 1, 2 and 5 of the Law of 14 June 1960 - Code of Administrative Procedure. The applicant proposed to do a small thing there, namely to replace the word "citizens' with the word "interested'. In the explanatory memorandum, the petitioner stresses that it concerns the possibility of submitting complaints and requests. According to Art. 63 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the right to lodge complaints or applications for everyone, i.e. not only citizens of Poland, but also foreigners. It is impossible to understand the reason why only citizens could submit applications or complaints, and that other people who are in our country have different kinds of businesses here, they live, they might no longer have that right. The introduction of these amendments will improve legal transparency and at the same time raise the level of legal protection for a separate administrative procedure, which is the complaint-application procedure. We are making some kind of simplification, consistency of the Code of Administrative Procedure with the Constitution, but also with the laws: the municipal government, the district government and the local government. So much, in principle, as regards the meritory of this procedure - one simple replacement of the word "citizens" with the word "interested." There is such a benefit that the law that will apply in our country will be a law that treats everyone equally, that the citizens of our country, and those who conduct various kinds of business, interests in our country, are somehow connected to our country. Everyone has the right to submit an application, everyone has the right to lodge a complaint. The citizen who has addressed the petition committee draws attention to the fact that such harmonisation of law should be introduced. This is, of course, one of the many threads that the petition committee is dealing with, but I think that such a procedure, that the citizen makes a proposal to the petition committee, the committee leans over it, considers, prepares a bill or uses the bill already drafted, simplifies, harmonises the law, such a procedure is absolutely necessary, acts in favour of the law, the citizens and everyone concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u163	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota to present the justification for the bill contained in print 178. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The petition system has been functioning in the Polish legal system since autumn 2015. In practice, the Sejm, as President Urszula Augustyn has already pointed out, offers practical opportunities to intervene, to involve citizens in order to improve the functioning of solutions that govern public affairs. As President Augustine has already pointed out, petitions are being submitted to the petition committee, the purpose of which is to amend the laws, because in this respect the Sejm has competence. That is why such petitions are directed to the Marshal of the Sejm. On behalf of the Committee on Petitions, I present a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure. The project is included in print No 178, which was addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm on 18 December 2019. Unfortunately, the project has waited quite long to be considered. I hope today's first reading will speed up the procession. The project was a result of a petition addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm. Its aim is to improve administrative procedures. The Act clarifies the time limit within which the appeal authority shall return the file to the body of first instance, without delay, but no earlier than after the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action before the administrative court. Code of administrative procedure does not currently address the matter relating to the return of the file to the body of first instance by the appeal body. In practice, some of the review bodies shall return the file to the body of first instance as soon as it has taken its decision whether or not it is in its essence to maintain the decision of the body of first instance in force or to repeal it. This sometimes leads to a situation where part of the file is at the disposal of the first instance and the remainder is at the disposal of the appeal body, as the files produced by the appeal body are not transferred to the first instance but remain in the possession of the appeal body. Where an administrative decision is challenged by a party to an administrative court, the appeal body must request the body of first instance to re-transmit the file of the case in question in order to be able to forward the complaint received, as provided for, together with the complete and orderly file of the case and to respond to the complaint within 30 days. That's what the article says. 54 § 2 Law of 30 August 2002 - Law on proceedings before administrative courts. Such proceedings by the review bodies shall entail additional and unnecessary costs in administrative proceedings. It's about the shipping costs, the materials used, the working time of the workers. For the complainant, this practice of the administrative authorities makes it difficult for the complainant to familiarise himself with the files of the case and thus to draw up an effective complaint. This is due to the fact that the offices of public administrations in different instances are often far from each other; in extreme cases this may even be a distance of several hundred kilometres. In order to look at the case files, the party must either travel to two different locations or submit two applications for its photocopy of documents from the case file. The time which the party has to draw up the complaint is therefore actually shortened, because at the time when the case file is transported from the seat of the appeal body to the body of first instance, the party has no access to it. The essence of the proposed solution is to introduce the principle that the appeal body shall return the file to the first instance without delay, but no sooner than the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action before the administrative court - so that authority will retain the file pending a possible complaint to the administrative court. A similar solution to that proposed in this project was introduced in the Act of 29 August 1997 - Tax Order. Art. 234a of that law, added as a result of the intervention of the Ombudsman by the Law of 30 June 2005 amending the Law - Tax Order and amending certain other laws, provides that the appeal body shall return the file to the Court of First Instance no earlier than after the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action before the administrative court. The same solution was also adopted in the Law of 17 November 1964. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - Code of Civil Procedure, where art. 389 provides that, after an unsuccessful expiry of the time-limit, the Court of First Instance shall return the file to the court of first instance and, therefore, after an unsuccessful expiry of the time-limit for appeal. The draft law was adopted in committee, which I would like to emphasise in particular, unanimously. The draft was agreed with all interested parties, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, prior to adoption in the committee. Under these arrangements, the committee routinely explained whether work was not carried out in the area covered by the petition, which would cover this issue, and in particular whether the government was preparing a draft law covering also the issues included in the proposed proposal. No objections were raised against the draft adopted by the Committee on Petitions. In addition, I would like to point out that the Committee on Petitions, when considering the petition, is bound by it and therefore the proposal relates only to the issue which is the subject of the petition. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u165	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the two draft laws presented here amending the Code of Administrative Procedure. These projects come, as has been said many times here, from the petition committee. To begin with, I would like to refer to the draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws from print No 689, as did the Member who presented the first draft. I would like to stress that this proposed amendment to the Administrative Code concerns Article. 253. Its current wording shows that state authorities, local authorities and other local authorities and social organisations have an obligation to receive citizens on complaints and requests. Basically, the change is about changing the word "citizens" to "interested." In the case of this draft law, there is a position, the opinion of the prosecutor general, the national prosecutor, in which the prosecutor claims that the project is essentially not of a substantive nature because, given the rules of systemic interpretation, the changes envisaged in the bill are de facto cosmetic. However, it needs to be refined editorially and in particular to correct certain errors. Therefore, with regard to the printing project 689, on behalf of my club, I propose that this project be directed to further work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. As I proceed with the analysis of the second project, contained in print No 178, I would like to stress that there is a position of the government towards this project. I wanted to draw attention to two aspects of this government position. As the Government points out in its position, the substance of the proposed solution is to introduce the principle that the Board of Appeal shall return the file to the Court of First Instance immediately, but no sooner than the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action before the administrative court. So, in some cases, this authority will have no purpose in holding the case file pending a possible complaint to the administrative court. And what is very important, as I would like to stress - such a revision of the rules could mean a violation of the principle of speed of administrative proceedings as set out in Article. 12 Code of Administrative Procedure, which is one of the most important principles that we have in k.p.a., according to which the act of returning the case file to the body of first instance by the authority of second instance should be carried out immediately after the final decision has been reached. It should also be noted that the legislative process should seek to reduce legal inflation as a set of standards designed to facilitate the functioning of society, as this reduces its effectiveness. This means that legislative interference should be limited to absolutely necessary cases. For this reason, the change merely to clarify the material and technical activities that have been properly implemented so far by introducing a further instructional deadline would lead to too much detail and a reduction in the quality and transparency of the rules. I would like to stress that, when I work in the Extraordinary Commission on the change of codification of the next term and having the pleasure to be here again on the floor in connection with the debate on the amendment of any code, I will repeat what I always say: this should be handled very carefully, especially with regard to any amendments to the code. These codes are the provisions that form the core of the law on which we later rely, creating (the bell), issuing other substantive laws. Therefore, for these reasons, on behalf of my parliamentary club, I request that the draft law amending the law be rejected at first reading - Code of Administrative Procedure from print No 178. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u167	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u168	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the petitioners very warmly for their intellectual effort to assess the existing law, the law applicable not only to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, but also to those who reside and live in our country permanently or temporarily, in order to adapt the provisions of this right to the changing needs of our world. I agree with my previous speaker that any code changes should be extremely balanced, analyzed and introduced when they are indeed important for transparency, for consistency and for the compatibility of legislation in the Republic of Poland. I will start with a less complicated thing, namely the draft Print Act No. 689, concerning amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. These other laws are the Act on self-government of all levels, i.e. municipal, district and voivodship local government. This is about the change proposed by our petitioner and presented to the High House by the Committee on Petitions, for which I thank you very much also to the President, and I hope that there will be more similar cases in the future. This change is, in fact, merely a change of one word used in several articles of the Code of Administrative Procedure and in the laws on territorial self-government. The aim is to record in these laws that not only citizens, but everyone, as the Constitution of the Republic of Poland points out, has the right to submit applications, to lodge complaints, to communicate personally with bodies of offices, both public and local, as well as to organisations of different levels. Since we have undergone a major political, economic and social change in our country, citizens of other countries who live here often study, learn or undertake professional work not only as employees but also as owners of micro, small or medium-sized enterprises have also come to Poland. They become part of this economic fabric, which in fact constitutes the substance of the creation of the gross national product, and also constitutes the substance of employment of the citizens of the Republic. Allowing them to have personal contact with the office or organization is absolutely essential for the introduction of such normal, human functioning of these citizens of other countries in our country, living and working here. I do not expect that in the Extraordinary Committee on Codification, which Mrs Bartus mentioned, we will have greater problems with reaching consensus on this issue and submitting the final version of the bill. On the other hand, on the second issue, contained in print No 178, concerning also amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure consisting in the introduction of a new article on the date of the return of the file by the authority of the second instance, I will allow myself completely to disagree with the opinion put forward by my previous speaker, which is the consequence of the position put forward by the Government of the Republic of Poland. As Mr Piechota mentioned, the Committee on Petitions asked for an opinion from all potential stakeholders and institutions from which positive opinions were received on this change, but going even further than the one proposed by the petitioner. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Piechota explained that the committee could only be closed in a proposal prepared by a petitioner. This additional element concerns the introduction of a similar solution also where there is an objection to the cassation decision. In view of this, given the provisions of the Tax Order, given the provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure, it seems to me that this consistency here would be very much desirable also in the case of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request that these two projects be referred to the Extraordinary Commission for changes in codification. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u169	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Amendment of the Act - The Code of Administrative Procedure primarily concerns a minor issue, as has already been said, the conversion of the word "citizens" into "interested." In Poland, according to the Constitution, everyone has the right to submit a request or a complaint. Ladies and gentlemen! In this area and in this area However, it is also necessary to remember about local governments, which will be at the level of local government, district government or local government of the voivodship served those interested. They can be very often people who will use foreign languages that are incomprehensible to government officials or local government officials. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of Polish local governments performing public tasks becomes increasingly difficult every year. The changes made to the PIT tax cause local authorities to lose their income: from a few to several tens of millions a year. This does not exempt individual municipalities from the implementation of planned and very necessary investments, the introduction of health programmes or the implementation of statutory changes. The last five years have been a lack of certainty for local authorities that their budgets will have income, including state compensation, in line with their responsibilities. This bill will also introduce certain obligations. Although the revenue of local government units increased between 2016 and 2019, unfortunately, it was not high enough to balance the increase in expenditure associated with, among others. with increased labour costs, energy prices, services and materials, and the scope of the tasks that these local authorities must carry out. Unfortunately, at the same time, in WW. the period, i.e. in the last 5 years, there has been a radical increase in disparities between e.g. part of the general education subsidy and expenditure on current education, in which only teachers' salaries, as rightly as possible, grew in each year faster than the education subsidy itself. After these few years, the expenditure of individual municipalities in total amounts to PLN 400 million. The lack of financial compensation for local government units and the obligations imposed on them are, of course, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and this law also refers to the Constitution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 167 of the Constitution, the income of local government units is defined in four points. Local government units shall be provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. The revenue of local government units is their own income and general subsidies and special subsidies from the State budget. Sources of revenue of local government units are specified in the Act. Changes in the tasks and competences of local self-government units follow with appropriate changes in the distribution of public revenue. I therefore call on the President of the Council of Ministers to take effective action, which will result in a system of compensation to supplement losses in the incomes of their own local governments. And don't forget all the changes we're making. They are absolutely right, they increase the range and speed up administrative procedures, but they will also generate costs for local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u171	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs. Catherine Ueberhan, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting our position on behalf of the left club on the draft law amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure. This submission was sent to the High House via the Committee on Petitions, which considered the proposed amendment to be justified. This may be a minor but substantial change clearly improves the applicant's situation in administrative proceedings and supports the implementation of the consumer principle of the citizen's right to court. It is symbolic that it came to us thanks to the initiative, petitions by the citizen, it is symbolic because it is our voters who remind us sometimes what our work here should depend on. However, the ruling majority, instead of creating and perfecting the law, although by the name of law and justice itself, unfortunately our law often breaks or even breaks and celebrates, and the words "rule of law" fear like the devil of holy water. As regards the submission, I would like to say that the objective of the project is obvious, the proposed provision is to improve the procedures for the administrative authorities to deal with complaints before the administrative courts for the decision of those authorities. This project regulates this element of the administrative procedure, which has so far been eluded by the legislator, since in this procedure it has not been regulated so far, despite the fact that (The Bell) a similar solution was already established many years ago, as a result of the intervention of the ombudsman, introduced by the Act - Tax Order, and the corresponding provisions also provide for a Code of Civil Procedure. The proposed rules improve the coherence, transparency and consistency of the existing rules... But which project are you talking about? ...the procedure itself for dealing with complaints about an administrative decision seems to improve. We're talking about printing 178. Do you want to keep the file for a while? Okay, now I'm not gonna get into this discussion. We can talk later, I'll explain what's going on. The proposed bill from our perspective and from the perspective of the petitioner harmonises the rules, improves the procedure and thus improves the exercise of the citizen's right to court, improves the situation of the complaining party to the administrative decision. Therefore, the Left Club will support the proposed bill to be sent to work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u173	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Coalition Poland our position on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. But I will also start by expressing my gratitude for both the petitioners and the petition committee, led by Mr Piechota, for the initiative which is - here we can regret - still a rare element of our parliamentary work, but very useful and, I think, with great prospects for the future, if we want to be a country that wants to put on the model of civil society, and we all think that it will. Today's draft law in print No 689 concerns the consistency of the article. 253 of the Article. 221 Code of Administrative Procedure and full compliance of these provisions with Article. 63 of the Constitution, establishing that every interested person - not only a Polish citizen - has the right to lodge complaints and requests to public authorities and social organisations. From the current wording of the article. 253 shows that state authorities, local authorities and other local authorities and bodies of social organisations are obliged to receive citizens on complaints and requests, thus depriving persons who are not Polish citizens of such rights. And so, as it has been said by the previous speakers, and several times, we have become recently, and there is nothing to ignore it, a country where everyday life is a non-Polish country, but well-integrated, living, working in our country, and it is a pity that we are just such a country that deprives them of or hinders their access to the administration. So this is a very good initiative. The second draft law on the amendment of the law discussed today - Code of Administrative Procedure, contained in print No 178, is a project aimed at improving the procedure for dealing with administrative bodies with complaints lodged to administrative courts for decisions of these bodies. Code of administrative procedure does not currently deal with the matter relating to the return of the file to the body of first instance by the appeal body. In practice, which is worth noting, a significant proportion of the review bodies shall return the file to the first instance authority as soon as it has taken its decision, whether or not it is in its essence to maintain the decision of the first instance authority in force or to repeal it. This leads to a situation where part of the file is at the disposal of the body of first instance and the remainder at the disposal of the appeal body, since the files produced by the appeal body are not transferred to the body of first instance but remain in the possession of the appeal body. Where an administrative decision is challenged by a party to an administrative court, the appeal body must request the first instance authority to refer the file back to the case in order to be able to forward the complaint received, together with the complete and orderly files of the case and to respond to the complaint within 30 days. Such proceedings shall create additional and unnecessary costs in administrative proceedings: consignments, materials used, working time of employees. For the complainant, this practice of the administrative authorities makes it difficult for the complainant to familiarise himself with the files of the case and thus to draw up an effective complaint. This is due to the fact that, as a rule, the offices of public administrations of different instances are far from each other. In extreme cases, it may even be a distance of several dozen or several hundred kilometers. In order to look at the case files, the party must either go on a journey (the bell) to two different places or submit two applications for its photocopy of documents from the case file. Mr. Marshal, I'd like a half-minute, please. The time which the party has to draw up the complaint is in fact shortened, because at a time when the file of the case is transported from the seat of the appeal body to the body of first instance, the party has no access to it. The Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland is in favour of both draft laws, which were submitted by the petition committee, going to further work, to work in an emergency committee dealing with changes in codifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u175	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Urbaniak from the Wheel of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions under review concern the extension of the circle of entities capable of acting before public administrations. The citizen is to replace the interested person. Why such a change? Well, in Poland there is a systematic change of population, more and more mass. Between 2010 and 2014, the number of work permits for foreigners oscillated around 40 thousand. per year. In 2015 - 65 thousand, in 2016 - 125 thousand, in 2017 - 235 thousand, in 2018 - 328 thousand and record in 2019 - 444 700. 80% of which These authorisations were not related to the continuation, they were only new authorisations. The vast majority of those who came here were people of Ukrainian nationality, about 1/4 came from other countries, different countries, mostly Eastern countries. We should not try to adapt the rules to the current situation, but we should ask ourselves how it happened that we have to proceed with such regulations at all. In fact, the answer can already be given by Minister Gowin, who said in 2013: In my opinion, a very brave decision is needed not only to open the Polish labour market to Ukrainians, but to open Poland to Ukrainians in general and to open the prospects for granting Polish citizenship. Polish citizenship should be a privilege. In this situation, you just grab it. Government's temptations go basically the same way, the government goes side by side with a radical left, which just does not respect this citizenship because it does not respect the national interest of Poland. And it is in the national interest for Poles to be born more, and we should debate how to increase the fertility of Poles here in order to preserve, maintain our national tradition, our ethnic cohesion or our culture. The Pole should be the host here, not running for bread somewhere abroad, which today is not once, not twice, and not five times. That's what a conservative government should do, but it doesn't. In the future, the national government will certainly take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the same circle, from the Confederation's circle. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u178	From these two prints we're working on, I'll refer to print number 689. I think it's one of those laws we didn't even know how much we didn't need them until we read them. It is strange that in such a difficult time our House has found time to deal with something so insignificant. Because at a time when most of the authorities still operate in emergency mode, they don't even let their employees in important cases, they just hang a bat in the windowsill, then the Sejm wonders if it's worth expanding the circle, the directory of the entities that this office will be obliged to inform now that the complaint and request service is already cancelled because of COVID. Well, I understand we're thinking ahead, maybe that's a good thing. In any event, the applicant considered that we also need to extend this catalogue to foreigners. Let us say that this is not about official matters, it is just such loose complaints and conclusions. There is nothing harmful about it, but it is simply an institution of marginal importance, which could be changed by some other amendment. If it is necessary to initiate debates on this subject, I have doubts. But if we have already decided that we are digging up this subject, then I am surprised that we have not, by the way, touched entirely on the neighbouring post-Peerel laws, which extend the obligation to adopt petitioners on complaints and applications also to social organisations, and not just to state offices. After all, it is, of course, a recipe that is largely dead. I can't imagine that in a normal private country, a voluntary association of people organizing themselves in some kind of association, who do not receive any remuneration from the state, will be forced by law to do activities that they do not wish to do; that, I don't know, a rosary circle, an association of hot dog enthusiasts, Justin Bieber fandoms or a swinger club will also have to open their doors and organize on-calls on complaints and applications for citizens and now also for foreigners. Voluntaryly existing social organisations should only have the responsibilities they choose for third parties. I am counting on the fact that, on the occasion of this rather curious law, we will fix this bizarre provision and our amendment in this respect will be adopted to remove these unfortunate social organisations from this obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u179	Thank you very much. It's time for questions. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. I invite Mrs Barbara Bartus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u180	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. This applies to printing No 689. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the constitution guarantees everyone the opportunity to lodge complaints and requests. In the Code of Administrative Procedure, Section VIII is devoted to this. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 221 Code of Administrative Procedure it is simply written that everyone has the right to lodge a complaint or an application. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 253, which is the subject of the proposal for an amendment, changes the word "citizens" to "interested." This is precisely the case with the adoption by the public offices or anyone interested. I have a question, Minister. Are there indications that this provision caused any difficulty that a foreigner was refused admission because of the registration of citizens? And on the other hand, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we write down the interested ones, if that means: not everyone, but the citizen or the person concerned, will it not cause problems that this Polish citizen will have to show his interest, just as the party has to show that he has an interest? Isn't it going to be that the person who's going to report to the office will have to show what her interest is, why she wants to meet with the mayor or anyone else in the office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Some Polish offices already have serious problems with timely processing of complaints, applications written in Polish. So should we not expect a mess that will arise when more requests and writings written not necessarily in Polish begin to flow to the offices? Is it the intention that the mass rejection of certain cases and letters addressed to the authorities should be through the creation of a system in which applicants will give up their own cases due to the waiting time? It seems that the proposed solutions can encourage and give the possibility of greater lobbying to international organisations by mass presence in our authorities by persons who are not in any way related to our country. Millions of applications for imposing customs incompatible with our culture on Poles in their country may begin to flow to Polish offices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There may be many writings which will be directed by representatives of x, y, countries on the work carried out in Poland. I think that these questions should be answered in the course of work in the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Good morning, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u184	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! The matter is very important and the petition is very important because it concerns all people who live in the Republic of Poland, but are not Polish citizens, they are not citizens of the Republic of Poland, but here they pay taxes, here their children go to schools, here they use urban transport, here, the ladies and gentlemen pay a medical insurance contribution, thanks to which the income of the National Health Fund also increases, and also these people, very often with the Polish Charter - and we spent over 250 thousand of them. Since 2008 - have the right to what? To submit applications and complaints to public authorities, above all that local authority, where they live. Warsaw is a multicultural city; Ukrainians, Belarusians, people of other nationalities live in Warsaw. Each of them, as well as a Pole in Brussels, London (The Bell), in Dublin has the right to lodge complaints and applications if his rights, if his freedoms are violated, and that is obvious. This petition is very much needed, this project is very much needed and it surprises me - I want to say it very clearly - all the voices that deny this idea. Please support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u185	Thank you very much. I invite you very much, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The great venerable Member of the Left here has asked about the affairs of local governments, and it is very right, because this, of course, goes beyond the matter of this particular law, but the government often interferes with the affairs of local governments, deprives the local authorities of their powers. But it's also going the other way. I can see with horror that local governments are criticizing state policy. At the moment, they are specifically criticising this House's policy, which is absolutely unacceptable. In a normal state, a government that does something like this gets reprimanded. If he does this for the second time, it is solved, he calls the commissioner and makes new elections, otherwise Poland will cease to be a country... It's not even cardboard anymore, it's just a piece of jigsaw puzzle. Thank you for your attention, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u187	Thank you very much. Another Member has come forward. It's me. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u188	Thank you, Marshal, for adding questions to this list. Originally, I had no intention of doing so, but the Member representing the largest parliamentary club in this House has provoked me with a bit of a negative... doubt about the meaning of this initiative. Therefore, using the presence of the Minister - because we have mentioned the number of foreigners who are in Poland - I would very much like to ask for information on how many complaints, speeches to administrative authorities have been recorded in the last 5 years by foreigners. It will be very easy to conclude what the availability of public administrations looks like for them. Within the framework of the existing law, I think it will be best to demonstrate (the bell) the need for changes requested by the projectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u189	Thank you very much. I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker to answer all questions. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the government's position on the draft in print No 689, it is appropriate here that the proposed changes are justified and worthy of support. The negative position was due to the form of the amendments which, in the assessment of the MSWiA, should not be carried out on a point basis, since they concern the Law of a particular nature, relate to the Code. The codes should have stability, sustainability, and possible changes should be made as rarely as possible and should be based on the actual and well-examined needs of legal trading. This particular role of the Codes is also reflected in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which provides for a separate and more complex procedure for their adoption and amendment. In the case of the draft contained in print No 178, the negative position refers both to the content of the project and to the form of the amendment. The content of the project was considered to be too detailed and reducing the quality and transparency of the rules, not sufficiently precise on certain exceptions, e.g. repealing the decision and referring it to review or opposition to the casatorial decision, as well as obstructing the conduct of cases relating to the reopening of administrative proceedings. Similarly to print project 689, it was considered inappropriate to introduce such minor amendments to the code rules. To answer your questions, I would like to say that the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration has not been affected by a complaint relating to the functioning of these rules. As regards, in general, the issue of complaints that Mr Paszyk has asked, I will answer you in writing because this data needs to be collected, it is quite broad knowledge. With regard to the issues that Mr Sosnierz has also spoken about today, this statement on the digitalisation of public administrations cannot be disagreed with. I'm convinced that in a time of pandemic, the way the authorities function... Of course, there are some extreme, pathological cases that you have mentioned, but in many offices digitization has developed greatly in connection with the daily functioning of these rules. I am also convinced that during the next months the rules relating to the Code of Administrative Procedure... As a rule, changes will move in this direction so that more and more things can be done by the citizen in the way we have been living in recent months, i.e. in an electronic way, also by digitising a number of office activities. In case of adoption by the Sejm, the above-mentioned Sejm. projects and referrals to the committee responsible shall be recommended to combine them into a single project. It seems also appropriate that other projects which are currently in the Sejm should be combined into a single project with changes in the Code of Administrative Procedure so as to be able to deal with these changes together. The government will, of course, cooperate with the committee in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u191	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Ursula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u192	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome. High Izbo! Life consists of little things and such a small change of one word, one word to another seems a little thing. But she has great consequences. And these are not minor problems, even though we heard such a sentence from one of the previous speakers just a moment ago. If the petition committee receives a project that has been written by a citizen who draws attention to something that is not working well, it is our duty to lean on it and examine it. Unfortunately, we do not have a patent for infallibility and it is clear that the law here, especially in recent years, is a law consisting of a huge number of mistakes, mistakes, omissions, oversights, etc., etc. I therefore believe that it is important that we listen to the citizens if they pay attention to us. That's right. So here we agree, all the more so because the change that we propose behind the petitioner is about the rules from 60 years ago, that's really a lot. Life went on, we had time to notice that something wasn't working well somewhere. On the other hand, the logic of not accepting requests and complaints that one of the Members asking here referred to is simply completely wrong, and I do not think it should be dealt with at all. Everyone - with respect for this word: everyone - has the right to submit complaints, applications, and to correct something. This is our privilege. One important remark to the Minister's statement. Well, Minister, we consult every petition whether we inform the government and the various ministries about the content of every petition. Therefore, please do not use the argument that these changes are pointy. Because as we inform you that such a change is proposed by the citizen, that such a change will be proposed by the petition committee, it is the responsibility of the government, the minister, to answer the question whether you see the need for this change or not, and possibly to undertake work that will be more comprehensive. Thank you very much for this proposal to unite and combine such projects so that they can be easier to work on within the committee. However, you can react more quickly as well. We sometimes show the government very precisely what doesn't work and where it doesn't work, because people who are affected by this law pay attention to it, so they say clearly that something is out of the question, vague, contradictory. And that's why there's a petition committee for us to show it to you, and that's why there's a government to do it at the same time. That's why you were chosen to offer such solutions. I think it is worth working on these projects, whether together or separately, although it is better together. It is worth talking about, and it would be good if you did not reject such projects at first reading, because your constituents are talking to you. They are citizens, it is Poles who show the petition committees places in the law where there are gaps, understatements or contradictions. It's worth taking advantage of. This is a very simple solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u193	Thank you very much. The second representative of the applicants, Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To begin with, I would like to stress very strongly that the idea of the whole petition mechanism is to use smart citizens' ideas. In my opinion, wise power should take advantage of a good citizen's idea. It is also necessary to stress that the committee under the law is bound by the scope of the petition - that is why this scope is so narrow, because it was the subject of a petition - but also that such decisions in the petition committee are taken unanimously and, after all, in the petition committee, representatives of the governing coalition have a majority. So it's not a random decision. This is a decision thought out and made after a long and thorough work. I have no doubt that the codes should be amended with the utmost caution, and such changes should not be made incidentally or fragmentedly. I therefore believe, as President Augustine has already said, that these proposals can be combined and incorporated into a larger package, which will be discussed in the codification committee. Such projects should not be rejected because - as indicated by this Madam Augustine - this is primarily due to respect for the petitioner of the citizen, but it is also worth looking at how thorough the process was conducted before this project was addressed to your Marshal of the Sejm. I will also stress that similar solutions already exist in Polish law. I have already referred to these provisions: Article. 234a Tax Ordnance, as well as Art. 389 Code of Civil Procedure. So this is not some strange idea that we don't know where it's coming from, but it's the idea of introducing into the Code of Administrative Procedure rules known and applied in other legal areas. The speed of the procedure requested by Mrs Bartus is, of course, very important, but speed must not mean haste, because it is precisely this quick reference to the body of first instance, if the person concerned lodges a complaint, that causes confusion and continuity of proceedings. It should be prudent not to lead to chronicity. Therefore, there is no reason to reject this project without careful consideration in the codification committee, because it is a rational solution, because it is rational to wait for this 30-day period, after which the documents can be sent back without collision to the body of first instance. That is why I would once again urge that this project be directed towards further work. It is precisely the appropriate place for this further work that is on the codification committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Mr. President, as you can hear me again... Can we get you on the phone with an envoy? Yes, I hear you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that these moments rarely happen. I would like to say to you that, in my duties as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, I am entrusted with cooperation with the petition committee. I wanted to thank Mr Sławomir Piechota, Sławek, for his cooperation. I would like to say that Mr. Infantry is really a brilliant chief of the petition committee and those words that he has sent to you and to us at the moment are worth a deep thought. Thank you very much, sir. Fame, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few more words to Minister Chezernaker. Because we're in the Seym and the discussion is the most important thing, Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u196	Literally a minute. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to refer to this... I said it when I first spoke, but it may not have been understood. To answer Mrs Bartus' question, I will say that such issues, complaints about those provisions that we are discussing today, have so far not been affected by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and the ministry's position is also due to this. That's one thing. And secondly, I think that of course we should appreciate all these issues that are going through the petition committee, particularly leaning on them, but I am convinced that before you, before the government, also before the High House - in my opinion for the next months, perhaps years, because these changes must be carefully analysed - before all of us work on this civilizational step in the functioning of the administrative procedure. These small, technical issues that we are talking about today, as part of the changes related to civilizational changes, what I was talking about, the digitalisation of offices, the digitalisation of the administrative procedure, everything that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said in his exposé, will still be the subject of work and the High House, and the Extraordinary Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u197	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, two decisions I'd like to make about two laws, so I'd like your attention, please. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws, contained in print No. 689, to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. It's a matter of the second law. In the discussion, a request was made for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 178. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 14.15. After the break, we'll move on to the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 to 10 p.m. 14 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. 420 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Coalition, with a formal proposal. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm here about a case that took place in the Parliament hall yesterday. I'd like to ask for a break and call the Senior Convention so we can talk about this. Mr Terletki spoke out of this speech yesterday outrageously to the Members of the House. I don't even want to bring up those words because they should never fall in this House. But I also wanted to draw attention to the words that were being said by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who spoke about the external party. These are the words which are no different from those spoken by Vladimir Putin to the opposition in Russia. I wouldn't want us ever to be in a situation like Russia. I'd like your marshal to react in situations like this. Mr Terletki's words and Mr Morawiecki's words are scandalous words that should never be heard in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u199	Mr President, yesterday I had the opportunity to sit among you. Believe me, I've heard far worse words on this side. You have requested a recess, sir. A request for a break has been filed. This is a formal conclusion. I'll put him to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 200 for, 229 against, 14 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on State Aid Procedure, print No 800. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law on the Organisation of Farming and Animal Distribution, print No 814. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - the profession of pharmacist, - amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, - to amend certain laws supporting the development of housing. The reports shall be printed in 817, 818, 827 and 813 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to remind you that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted requests to supplement the agenda with points: - Information from the Minister of National Education on the state of preparation of schools for the new school year 2020/2021, in particular as regards the implementation of statutory tasks during the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease caused by it, as well as the efficiency of the information systems providing remote teaching used by schools, - Information from the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on police interventions and detentions made on ul. Krakowskie Przedmieście and ul. Wolf in Warsaw on 7 and 8 August 2020, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the organisation of the outbreak of the Second World War on the Westerplatte Peninsula. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal for information from the Minister for National Education on the state of preparation of schools for the new school year 2020/2021. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 215 for, 229 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on police intervention. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 210 for, 237 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information from the President of the Council of Ministers to answer questions about the organisation of the outbreak of the Second World War on the Westerplatte peninsula. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 - for, 231 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. May I, Your Marshal, with a formal motion? There you go. I hope it's a formal motion, or I'll turn off the microphone. We are in the middle of voting, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u200	Of course, thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for a five-minute break during which I could present to Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński information about very... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] But your marshal, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u201	We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Pharmaceutical Trade Act (Prints No 790 and 817). Please come down. I understand there are different standards. I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present a report to the committee. May I make a formal request? Mr President, we have just voted on the request for a break. The Rules of Procedure expressly state that, for the second time, the same proposal is not put to the vote. Thank you, sir. I see. But it's for another reason. Your marshal makes it impossible for me to present it. I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present a report. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Senate's resolution on the pharmaceutical profession law, print No 790. This is a very important moment because it was the pharmacists who, as the only professional group of public trust, waited more than 30 years for the law on their own profession. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 30 November 2020 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. The Health Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 8 December 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the amendments of the Senate contained in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 10 and 11 and to accept paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13 and 14. In total, the amendments set out in points 1 and 2 and 7, 9, 13 and 14 should be voted on. High Izbo! The Senate, as well as the opposition, wanted to push one amendment very hard. And the word "consistently" in this law is the same as the phrase "and magazine" in the Law of the 1990s. Thank you. [[Applause]] It was supposed to be a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u203	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 The Senate proposes to add point 6. This amendment is combined with the 2nd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna... Sir, would you please sit down? Scream at you, sir. Mr Kulesza, please sit down. I only asked for five minutes. Sit down there, sir. I asked for five minutes. 452 Members voted. 244 - for, 208 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 35a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 228 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to add an article. 44a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 227 for, 210 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 82 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 12. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 2 for, 443 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 83 point 1 of the Senate proposes that in Article. 54 of the Act of 6 September 2001 - The pharmaceutical law repeal paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 12 - for, 435 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 7, 9, 13 and 14. The Senate is proposing editorial changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7, 9, 13 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Two for, against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 8th amendment to the article. 83 point 9 of the Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 237-- for, 211-- against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 83 point 13 of the Senate proposes an amendment to point 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 269 - for, 174 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 83 point 17 of the Senate proposes amendments to point 83 of the Senate. b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 228 - for, 174 - against, 47 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 83 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 18. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 5 for, 439 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. That concludes the Senate's position on the pharmaceutical profession law. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Prints Nos 791 and 827). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws contained in print No 791. The Health Committee at its meeting yesterday, 9 December, considered the seven amendments of the Senate and asked the Sejm to accept these amendments. At the same time, I would like to point out and add that amendments 7 and 1 should be voted together, as recommended by the Legislative Office, as well as amendments 3, 5 and 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u205	Thank you very much. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Law containing amendments to the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. In the first amendment to Article. The 95ea Senate proposes amendments to the paragraph. 1. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 1 for, against -443, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. The 95eb Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 221 - for, against - 228, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 95eb paragraph. 7 The Senate proposes amendments to point 2. Amendments 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 5 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 1 for, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 4th amendment to the article. 95ec The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 1 for, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate resolution on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing (prints Nos 792 and 813). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate adopted 45 amendments to the Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. These amendments were addressed by you to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy yesterday. The joint committees have examined the amendments and recommend adopting the overwhelming majority of these amendments, i.e. 41. These are usually editorial and legislative amendments. The Commissions were of the opinion that four amendments should be rejected. This is about Amendment 21, which refers to Article. 32a of the Act of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of housing promotion, since after the amendments made by the Act to which we consider amendments, the term "social housing initiative" is used, not "company." Its adoption would result in terminology inconsistencies. Amendment 29, in turn, refers to Article. 5 of the Act of 8 December 2006 on financial support for the creation of residential premises, apartments for rent, shelters, etc. The designer's intention was not to recover private investors' dwellings by modernising them, but to recover them from the municipal housing stock. Amendment 45 refers to amendments to the Law of 21 November 2008 on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovation. The point is that the possibility of obtaining a modernization bonus is where at least 10% the premises in a specific building will have participation agreements. The last of these amendments, Amendment 36., did not obtain a majority. It concerns the National Property Resources Act. The combined committees assumed that there were enough instruments in the Act to act for the National Property Resources and that there was no need to give it another instrument. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u207	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 9 Act - Construction Law The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 3b. We will consider this amendment, including amendments from 2 to 4, 6, from 8 to 19, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 33, 40 and 41. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 4, 6, from 8 to 19, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 33, 40 and 41, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Two for, against -442, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 5th amendment to the article. 32 of the Act - The construction law of the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 5 and giving a new mouth tone. 6. Amendments 7, 42, 44 and 45 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 5, 7, 42, 44 and 45 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ladies and gentlemen of the IT team say there was a bad numbering of this vote in the system, so let's stop. We're gonna have the same vote again, okay? Is it okay now? Can we do it now? Yes? Can we go now? Can we get started? Wait a minute. Is that okay? Yes, we can. Yeah, yeah. Okay, then, ladies and gentlemen, it's the same vote again. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 5, 7, 42, 44 and 45 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, but there's a new vote in the system. There are amendments 20, 27 and 31. It's a total mess. Now it's... Yes... Something's broken. Again. We have to stop, Marshal, and again. No, no, it's okay now. Something's broken. They're taken off the tablet. But she's different... There's another amendment on the tablets. But there's another amendment on the tablets. But they have something else on their tablets. What do they have on the tablets? That's right, because that's where the 20th, 27th and 31st amendments are. And again? Yes. You're right. Again, yes, because there's another numbering on the tablets. Yeah, okay. And a description. And a description. Good. There's another number, we have to go back. To all of you: third time the same thing, ladies and gentlemen, one more time. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 5, 7, 42, 44 and 45 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? ...ours is 154. You turned out to be 154... Your marshal, I think you need to... 154... Okay, look at Amendments 5 and 7. There was an error in the numbering of corrections. [[Your Marshal, but the numbers are different.]] Only the number's 154. Correction numbers, Marshal, they're different. Correction numbers. Someone made a mistake. The vote must be stopped and the vote restarted. Not to me, to your IT guys, tell me what's going on. There's 154 on the tablet. It's still bad. Mrs 154, this is a description of the amendments that we are voting on that was wrong. Right now, we're voting and you have amendments 5, 7, 42, 44 and 45 on your tablets, right? It's okay. It's okay, yeah. Yes. Thank you. 443 Members voted. No one was for, 442 against, one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 20th amendment to the article. 30 The Act on Certain Forms of Support for Housing The Senate proposes that paragraph be repealed. 4a and the addition of paragraph 1. 4b. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 27 and 31. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20, 27 and 31 will want to press the button. Who's against it? It's not working. It's not working. I can see it's not working. Oh, now it's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working. 443 Members voted. No one was against 433, 10 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 21st Amendment to the Act on Certain Forms of Support for Housing, the Senate proposes to give a new wording to the article. 32a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 226 - for, 212 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment to the article. The 7th Housing Supplements Act of the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 11 - for, 439 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 25th Amendment to the Housing Supplements Act, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 8a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 1 for, against -436, 11 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 29th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on financial support for the creation of apartments for rent, shelters, shelters for homeless, heating rooms and temporary rooms The Senate proposes to add point 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 225 - for, 214 - against, 11 - abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 13 Act on financial support for the creation of apartments for rent, shelters, shelters for homeless, heating rooms and temporary rooms The Senate proposes changes in paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, against -441, 11 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 34th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 435, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 35th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (2) of the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation of the Senate proposes to delete lit. b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 226 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 36th amendment to the article. The 7th Act on the National Property Resources of the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 37th amendment to the article. 33 of the Act on National Property Resources, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 38. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 37 and 38 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, against - 452, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 39th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 21a in the Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was against 452, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 43rd amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 48th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted, 2 in favour, 448 in favour, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on State Aid Procedure (Prints Nos 793 and 800). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law on the proceedings in cases concerning State aid, print Nos 793 and 800. The Senate submitted two legislative-ordering amendments to the Parliamentary Act. After considering these amendments, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends that the High House adopt them in a joint vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u209	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Both amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 Amending Law containing amendments to the Law on State Aid Procedure. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 24a paragraph. 7 The Senate proposes to delete the word "money." We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 2. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, against - 448, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on State aid proceedings. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Organisation of Farming and Animal Distribution (Prints Nos 794 and 814). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Law on the Organisation of Farming and Animal Distribution, print No 794. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 30 November 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development met at its meeting on 8 December 2020. After considering 10 amendments, the committee recommends that all amendments be adopted. It was also pointed out that Amendment 1 could be voted on together with amendments 2, 4, 5, 9 and 10, as well as Amendment 6, together with Amendment 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u211	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 10. We will consider this amendment in conjunction with amendments 2, 4, 5, 9 and 10. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 446, 1 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment to the article. 17 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was against 452, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 38 The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph. 7 and the addition of paragraph 7. 7a. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendments 6 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 7th amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) Point 1 (2) of the Senate proposes to delete point 2. b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law on the Organisation of Farming and Farming Breeding. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office (prints Nos 795 and 818). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office from print Nos 818 and 795. The Commission considered the Senate resolution on 8 December this year. and recommends that the High House adopt the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u213	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 The Senate proposes adding a reference. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Two for, 449 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 1 for, against -452, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 760-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance an additional report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, print No 720. Four amendments to this proposal were tabled in the second reading here in the plenary chamber. The Finance Commission yesterday considered all these amendments and recommended that the High House adopt amendments 1, 3 and 4. - reject and vote on the 3rd and 4th. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u215	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 760. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the excise duty Act. In the first amendment to Article. 100 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 409 - for, 44 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 163a applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 205 - for, 249 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 4a. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 440 - for, against - 12, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 760, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 445 for, 5 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 703. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 703, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 445 for, 6 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy. The additional committee report shall be in print No 635-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u216	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Joint Committees: the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present an additional report to the Joint Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy, Parliamentary Prints No. 240 and 630. In the second reading of the draft law, one amendment was tabled concerning more flexible clearance for outgoing directors from these companies. The joint committees, after hearing the applicant's amendment and the government party, and after discussion, recommend that the High House reject this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u217	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 635. The committees present in the additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. The amendment was tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on State Enterprises. In its amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of the amended paragraph. Article 1 39. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 233 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 635, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 449 - for, 3 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy. We refer to item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law in the form of a print submission No 680. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 680, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Oh, Kowalski, from Brussels, they called you. Janusz, don't run away. Stay with us. 450 Members voted. 440 - for, 1 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the declaration of the provisional agreement on trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria signed in Sofja on 29 April 1925. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law in the form of a print submission No 688. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 688 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 452 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on the declaration of the provisional agreement in commercial and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofja on 29 April 1925. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the urgent draft law amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, stay and exit from this territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act 810. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 810 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 382 - for, no one was against, 70 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from that territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions Supporting the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 820. The Commission is presenting a minority proposal that we will be voting on first. In the minority proposal to Article. 1 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 214 - for, 227 - against, 13 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 820 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 436 - for, 3 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Specific Solutions to Support the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, sent this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 178 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 234 - for, 211 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 19 hrs. 16 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation of medicinal products for the increased incidence of COVID-19 and measures taken to reduce the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. I ask the Minister of Health, Adam Niedzielski, to present the information. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I would like to present information based on facts, information about the course of the pandemic, but also what the tools and instruments of fighting the pandemic that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki has applied, especially in the period since September this year. Discussions about pandemics very often, unfortunately, mix facts with emotions. There are fake news, especially fake news, which are sold by pseudoexperts. These pseudo-experts, of course, fill the Internet space. Unfortunately, this leads to disinformation, it leads to building fears, building fears, anxiety and building fear attitudes. As Minister of Health, I want to focus on passing on facts that I would like to separate and separate from emotions, because emotions are unfortunately distorting this picture. Therefore, let us discuss the facts, the reality as it is. First, like the whole world, Poland also touched the second wave of epidemics, whose summit, as you know perfectly well, fell at the beginning of November. But the pandemic really started accelerating in mid-October, and then the process of rapid growth, rapid daily increases in the number of diseases began. From week to week we had a very high, almost doubling rate of disease. This accumulation, this escalation took place in early November. Then the pandemic started slowing down - slowing down and at the level of dynamics, and at the level of the number of diseases that we monitored very closely, looking at how the number of diseases looks from week to week. This trend, which has emerged since the beginning of November, led to the fact that at the end of November we already had a negative rate of disease dynamics. This was a major change, which was above all a relief for the health system. The course of the epidemic was very distinctive. If we looked at the charts, it actually looked like a wave. But this wave can have different shapes, depending on what means are involved in the fight, because this wave can be flattened, this wave can last for a very long time, this wave can have a low peak, it can have a high peak. We did everything we could to make sure that the number of diseases was as limited as possible. First of all, we prepared for this wave by managing the number of beds and ventilators available. This is the most important issue that allows patients - especially patients in a condition that requires hospitalisation - to be put in hospital. We've been trying all along to make sure that the hospitalization rate is less than the bed base for patients with COVID. We called it a safety buffer because we wanted there to always be a free space, a free number of beds for COVID treatment in relation to the number of hospitalizations. This process, of course, was associated or associated with the development of the pandemic. From the end of October to the end of November, we doubled the number of beds for COVID treatment. In mid-October or late-October, we had about 20,000. The beds we were just about to use for the COVID system. Then there was a wave of pandemics, and that number of diseases grew. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The accumulation, as I said, was at the beginning of November. We have come to the conclusion that the total number of beds for COVID disease at this maximum point was 40,000. That's 40 grand. was a buffer in the form of nearly 15 thousand. free beds - of course these beds are arranged regionally - but this meant safety for patients. Of course, there were situations when the ambulance had to drive from hospital to hospital, but we also tried very quickly to respond to these situations by introducing special IT solutions, involving the army of territorial protection to ensure that the information that goes to the ambulance dispatchers was a real information that they did not need to verify on the spot, only one that would allow the patient to be transported efficiently to the hospital. Of course, the same applies to the case of ventilators. This is where we've been keeping an eye on the security buffer all along. In the case of beds, we are already in such a situation that due to the decreasing number of infections we have a slightly smaller infrastructure dedicated to COVID, because this infrastructure needs to be managed very flexibly. We need to manage flexibly because we have other diseases and they are also a very serious health problem for Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, we also carried out actions that would improve and stop these places or situations in the system that pointed to a narrow throat. We've organized an entire oxygen distribution system so that the oxygen goes to the patients so that there's no risk of oxygen loss for those patients who need it intensively. Here we worked together with the Ministry of State Assets and managed to lead to the situation that local stocks or local warehouses of voivodship oxygen began to regularly keep pace with the demand that was reported by hospitals. In addition to critical oxygen medicine or medicine used in therapy, Remdesivir is used. As you know, the WHO has issued a statement of doubt regarding the effectiveness of this medicine. We consulted with our infectors, who explained that there is a narrow time window when this medicine is effective, and it is art that the patient in this window should be hospitalized where it can be supplied with this medicine. The same applies to plasma. Initially, Remdesivir's deliveries to Poland were in the order of several thousand ampoules per month. We managed to redraft the contracts so that we increased these deliveries that in November and December we reached the level of deliveries to Poland reaching nearly 50,000. ampoules a month, so that the situation here is also secured. What is very important and what has also helped us to make sure that this wave doesn't last that long is sharpening. This is about the tightenings and the safety brake that we pressed at the end of November, introducing the most annoying tightenings that we are currently dealing with. This has also slowed down the increase in disease, because closing schools, switching to remote teaching, reducing trade, reducing travel - all this has contributed to the fact that we have fewer diseases and we can now have a more calm view of the future. Ladies and gentlemen! These are, of course, very basic, most important actions, but we have two important events, two important phenomena, which we also need to talk about. First of all, the situation is actually better than three, four weeks ago, but that doesn't mean that we're fully safe. Unfortunately, the spectrum of the third wave is still hanging over the whole world, not only over Poland, and this spectrum in some places in the world is materializing. It materializes in Korea, Japan, where the third wave occurred. Therefore, as a government, we will urge that decisions to loosen the restrictions, how we will spend the next time, be prudent decisions, decisions that will not expose us to repeat experiences, such as the Czechs, who have loosened from day to day of sharpening and with the leader of the fight against pandemics have unfortunately become the leader in the number of diseases per 100,000. people in Europe. That's why all the steps we're going to take here will be prudent. And they have to be prudent because there's a light in the tunnel. This light is, of course, vaccinations, which the Polish government contracted almost 60... I'm sorry. So that I do not mistake the number: the Polish government contracted nearly 62 million vaccinations, which secures all the needs for the vaccination of adult Poles. These vaccinations will, of course, gradually affect Poland. It is so that the process of inoculating Poles will be a time-consuming process, which will certainly patronize, if one can say, 2021. Let us hope that both our behaviour in the near future and the systematic implementation of vaccination will lead us not to collide with the third wave of pandemic, although we are also prepared for this scenario. Most of the temporary hospitals that have been built recently are actually set up and made ready. We don't start them, but we don't close them either. They're supposed to be our security guard, our fourth line of defense, when it comes to the risk of a third wave. Ladies and gentlemen! So much for entry. Of course, I'm open to questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We'll connect remotely. Do we have a call yet? [[A Member's statement is displayed on the screenshots.]] [[Yes.]] [[You're welcome.]] [[Am I being heard?]] [[Yes, sir, and even seen.]] [[Then I bow down.]] [[Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This brief debate is, in my opinion, very necessary. It's a good thing the Minister is presenting some information personally. It was not a tradition in the past that, at such points, especially at the end of the meeting of the Sejm, the Minister should personally present information in any area.]] [[This shows the seriousness of the approach to pandemic cases. This shows the department's involvement in the fight against the coronavirus. This also shows the scale of the challenges we face and the scale of action.]] [[I will repeat what I said in many of my previous speeches - whether in the Sejm or in committee meetings or in the media. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, as rarely as it is, we need a common concerted action by coalitions and opposition. There's no need to be smarter, there's no need to look for political profit. Unfortunately, such situations often occur. Examples can be given, for example, of the setting up of field hospitals, those additional medical facilities to combat COVID. When these hospitals were created, then the main charge was why during the holidays, when these diseases were 200, 300, 500, why they were not prepared for the second wave, why these hospitals were not created at that time - although some logistical actions had already been taken, but it was difficult to create these field hospitals at that stage. And the proof that this was the right way is what happened later, because, of course, there were still reminders on the way: when this hospital at the National Stadium was launched, and when it was launched, there were charges: why there were so few patients there, why it was used so little. I will not repeat the arguments presented by representatives of the health department, why this is the case, not another order of action, why patients should first be in multi-profile hospitals, where they can be provided with comprehensive care, and here those patients who can be placed at the National Hospital and who sometimes do not need a very large number of diseases. But this situation and such an atmosphere were unfortunately created, unfortunately it was functioning, while in fact we should all be thinking about what we can do, how we can work together.]] [[The meetings of the Health Committee are rather a good example of the fact that it can be discussed in a factual and substantive manner. We have discussed, ladies and gentlemen, several times this year only on issues related to COVID. Recently we have met and also at the initiative of the Ministry we have talked about carrying out vaccinations. Vaccines will soon be in Poland and will soon be in Poland. And this is the future, this better perspective - better than waiting for the third wave, which unfortunately very possibly will happen to us.]] [[So, ladies and gentlemen, in order for us not to be harmed by this third wave, on the one hand we must keep our distance, wear masks, disinfect our hands, do not go to these meetings we do not have to go to, in one word, watch out for ourselves and our loved ones, friends, and on the other hand - convince ourselves that it is really worth the vaccination, and once these vaccinations are started, it is indeed immediately, as soon as possible, for these vaccinations to come forward. A great challenge ahead of us, because at the moment the desire to inoculate is declared, one can say, in relation to other countries only half of the population, only half of Poles, although compared to previous influenza vaccinations we can say that this is as much as half. So we have a breakthrough, but not enough breakthrough.]] [[I thank the government for its actions for all of us (the bell) on the pandemic. Of course, not everything has always worked out, not everything is perfect, but you cannot deny competence and action, which is absolutely rational, at least when it comes to the excellent majority of decisions taken. Let us support the government and act together.]] [[Thank you very much, sir.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Latos mentioned temporary hospitals. The best summary of today's situation regarding the epidemic in Poland is the temporary hospital at the National Stadium. This is the most expensive hospital in history and at the same time a hospital without patients. If someone's looking for an example of how you've dealt with the epidemic, that's the hospital. Recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki has said that the numbers are not lying, and that is why I would like to focus on the numbers today, to address the PiS Members and to present a few figures that should give you some thought, especially as you so often refer to your constituents, you refer to voters in your regions. Please display the first slide. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of death. That's what you showed yesterday. The issue of death, which has not yet been resolved. Only in November we have 30,000. more deaths than in 2019 or 2018. Minister, I'm asking you to give me a precise answer. Only 10,000. Deaths are deaths related to COVID, 20,000. Deaths are inexplicable deaths that the government is currently unable to answer. Is this a breakdown of the system? Are these all the stories that the ambulances didn't come to our loved ones? Is this a matter of lack of oncology therapy? Is that a question? Just a breakdown of the entire health care system? $20,000. Unexplained deaths are about the same as 100 plane crashes. Members of the PiS are here with us. It is as if within a month one Polish city - Krosno, the district of Marek Kuchciński, or, for example, disappeared. part of Kolobrzeg, the district of Mr Paweł Chiefnernaker. It is as if to delete any city from the map of Poland. This is your responsibility today. These are not deaths that result directly from the epidemic. These are deaths, which result from the fact that you neglected to prepare Poland until the outbreak, you failed to cope with it and led these people to death. It's just the truth. In 2020 30% died. more people over 90 years of age than in 2019 I want to do it again. A third more of our grandmothers and grandparents died all year long, and you say you won the virus. After all, we hear this whispering of reality by the Prime Minister every once in a while. Although the pandemic affects every Polish woman and every Pole, these are regions that you have especially forgotten about. In October 2020, 83% died. more people in Podkarpackie Voivodship than in October 2019 These are the victims of this government, these are the people who didn't have to die, these are the people who died because the health system wasn't prepared. And these are all the numbers you're presenting in the official statistics. These are numbers given by the Central Statistical Office, numbers given by the Ministry of Health. Let's take a look at this map. These are the people you said were your constituents, the people you said you'd take special care of them. In all southern voivodships, Podkarpackie voivodship, Małopolska voivodship or finally Świętokrzyskie voivodship, you forgot people the most. There, the increase in mortality is often close to 100%. These are data that you can't explain to the COVID, so either you don't give precise information, or you just don't have information about it, and people die at home, die in hospitals, and nobody can explain it in any way, certainly not the Polish government. Podkarpackie Voivodship, as I said - increase in mortality by 83%, Małopolskie Voivodship - increase in mortality by 67%, Świętokrzyskie Voivodship - increase in mortality by 63%. I think that's where Zbigniew Ziobro had the highest support. Mortality among people over 60 years of age increased by 42% in October. This, apparently, President Andrzej Duda often referred to people after 60 years of age. You guys just forgot about these people. Today these people are left to themselves. For $1,000. Inhabitants perform 0.88 tests. In Hungary, almost five tests are carried out for each 1,000. residents. So if someone wanted Budapest in Warsaw, let them take an example of things that are worth taking an example. And no matter how many times you say you've won the virus, at the end of the year, the number of victims of Coronavirus in Poland will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Over 60,000. Poles. Sixty thousand. Poles. And this saddest number from the end of World War II we will remind you to the end, because it is your responsibility, you are responsible for it, and you will be accounted for for for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u221	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If it's so good, at least in the state media, why is it really so bad? One answer to this question, of course, cannot be answered, but I will try to point out the most important reasons for this difficult situation. Firstly, the epidemic and later pandemic on such a scale have not been the case in the modern world. At the same time, it must be made clear that SARS-CoV-2 is not Ebola, whose mortality exceeds 50% , and in some cases 90%. COVID fatality shall not exceed 3%. The spread of viruses can be effectively reduced, but this requires quick and wise decision-making. Unfortunately, in very many cases, one can say that in too many cases, in our country we have not dealt with either. The latest reports of Italian doctors say that SARS-CoV-2 virus reached their country as early as November last year. Initially, doctors found that a four - year - old boy in Milan was suffering from measles, but a thorough examination confirmed that the child was infected with a coronavirus. In January 2020, the Polish government received a memo from the Intelligence Agency that the threat from China is serious and needs to be prepared for the crisis. Unfortunately, the power remained silent, ignored that signal. The content of the memo was not even the subject of the Sejm Committee on Special Services. During this time, the committee dealt with various kinds of issues in the service. The government's information about the actions taken and the state's preparations for the epidemic threat in Poland and Europe only appeared in the Sejm on 2 March. It is worth mentioning that on January 25th, 37 days before the said government information, together with a group of Members of the Left, I reported an interpellation No. 1675 on the risk of the spread of the outbreak of Coronavirus in Poland. This is just one of many examples of how late and unprofessional the actions of power were. A power that universally usurps its monopoly on knowledge and infallibility. Very often power fell and appeals continue to fall in style, one must unite in the fight against the epidemic, or all hands on deck. The Left Club, as I myself, together with the other members of the Health Committee, have repeatedly declared our help and willingness, the need for real, real cooperation on reducing the size and consequences of the pandemic. So far, none of us, I repeat: no one, has been invited to such cross-party cooperation in the name of the health and life of citizens and citizens. Call: all hands on deck, in your performance, means that those who have responded positively to this password are automatically thrown overboard. I say it with great bitterness. Now let's get this straight. Patients infected with COVID brought to voivodship and urban hospitals, as well as district hospitals, are not greeted as in the national lazaret. Many times patients in the white and red stadium welcomed the government television cameras, and even the Prime Minister himself. In these real, real hospitals, patients welcome white and red colors, but these are not the colors of the stadium. These are the colors of ambulances standing in line, ambulances in which patients spent even a few hours. October 9th in the driveway at the hospital on ul. In Wroclaw there were nine ambulances, white and red ambulances. The waiting time was five hours. Has anything gotten better? Not really. An accident from my district two days ago. An ambulance with a COVID patient was going from Lęborka to Prabut in search of a spare space for him. One way. It's 180 kilometers. The same day transport from Kartuz to Chojnice - another 100 km. Has anyone ever wondered if anyone even realized that in order to survive and survive such transportation, one has to be healthy? You have to have sats above 95%, not 70%. How rich a country we must be to waste the willingness and sacrifice of people and turn off the ambulance, for example. 8 hours? And another example from November. Bialystok University Clinical Hospital. Job offer [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the position of a medical emergency worker - 2600 PLN gross. This is county Poland, Minister, so far and so different from the National Hospital. The fact that the health system in our country still functions as such is because of people's self-sacrifice, sacrifice and ethos. They deserve the greatest respect and recognition. From this place in the name of the Left, I thank them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we listen to the Prime Minister's information from the Minister of Health about the most important: the situation of the health system, the prevention of the coronavirus. And look at the support the Minister has on the side of Law and Justice. One Mrs Bartus. Thank you for being here. [[Applause]] Because we have an online meeting, sir. Please inform your colleagues that today is an important meeting. I remember yesterday when you were defending your leader. Everyone had time. But when we defend Poles, there is no one. Nobody has time. That is the approach of law and justice. [[Applause]] Minister! I am sorry because this support is only symbolic, but it is also visible in your work. You have no backup. The basic motto in medicine is: prevention is better than cure. This is a motto that concerns not only medicine but also life, the economy, and the functioning of the state, especially at such a difficult time as a global pandemic. But in order to counteract it, you have to act, and that wasn't on your side. You have not prepared Poland for the second wave of epidemics, you have re-balled the holiday and you are aware of these mistakes. This is evidenced by the cancellation of the former Minister, and behind him practically all the Vice-Ministers and Chief Inspector... Sanitary. ...sanitary. I remember... Today, Mr President of the Health Committee said that the new Minister is taking matters seriously. That's what it looks like. His predecessors, on the other hand, did not take it seriously. Enough of that, they minimized the problem, they behaved nonchalantly. The chief health inspector I mentioned spoke in such a way that it is not even appropriate for me to repeat it today. And now that the new minister's got to work, it turns out that the government didn't really have a pattern, it didn't have any strategy. This is demonstrated by the collapse of the supply system, the distribution of medical gases, primarily oxygen, as well as the issue of access to the network by various competing suppliers. The Minister was just talking about it, but we know that this case has caused a huge crisis. How many people didn't have access to medical gases, mostly oxygen? We know all about this. Why didn't anybody in the government think about it on vacation, but didn't he predict that with a massive increase in the number of these medical gases? This lack of an action plan has affected not only patients, but also the entire social life and the Polish economy. Your pattern of action was best described by the editor of Reszka, describing, for example, a temporary hospital at the National Stadium. He wrote about a doctor who came to Warsaw to earn good money, didn't really have anything to do and the government settled him in a 5-star hotel. But now let's get down to business. Let the Minister be clear today and explain who will get these famous additions, these bonuses. Will you get a saloon supplement that's been working hard in the ward since March, keeping it clean, having a lot of work to do? He won't. Do you get an addition like this from a nurse who hasn't been assigned to work by the voivodship, but works as hard as the other one that's been directed? How about a doctor who works at a county hospital in the hospital emergency department? Or maybe technical workers who provide, among others. These medical gases, they carry oxygen tanks, maybe they'll get them. How about they get DPS employees? Or do they get people who are medical guardians? They're people who take care of a sick patient from admission to the hospital, and sometimes until the end, until his death. And they are the witnesses of this death. The medical guardian is the only person who accompanies a sick person in the last days of his life because his family cannot be in hospital at this time. Please answer if these people will get their support. But we're a constructive opposition, which is why we're proposing a lot of things, the solutions you've been using. Among other things, when we said that it was unnecessary to charge a tax on employees who have vaccinations for free from their employer - you changed it quickly. When we said that the TSO had to join those uniformed services that had to be 100% the salary when they are in isolation or quarantine - you have joined the TSO. So we're suggesting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want you to change other things, too. We have presented them many times from this speaker and at press conferences. Mr. Minister, if he's following the situation and the words of the opposition, he knows what I'm talking about. If I had more time, I would like to introduce all the ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u226	In May, here in this room, you have already spoken with a triumphant tone about the epidemic in the past. There aren't any of the people who said that today. It was Prime Minister Morawiecki. The current Minister Czarnek boasted that the epidemic was actually over. At the time, I asked why... He was... he was in your direction, wasn't he? I can't hear what you're saying, unfortunately. I then asked, on what basis such a triumphant tone. If we're announcing the end of the pandemic, then... What happened? I was showing graphs from other countries, where obviously we've been dealing with the decline of this first wave, you can say that. In comparison, the graph for Poland was actually flat, with a small depth for elections - because as you know, the virus went back a bit for elections under mysterious circumstances. Perhaps, then, this is a recipe: to organise elections more often. But there was no first or second wave. We had a persistent high level of infection, a high rate of infection. As it once rose, it stood at this level until it shot into space in the fall. I remember how we compared ourselves with Sweden in the spring, speaking with a triumphant tone, which the Swedish strategy led to, how many infections there were and how many people died there. However, Sweden currently has less than 31 000 inhabitants per million. infected and Poland - just over 29 thousand. In the statistics of deaths, Sweden - 726, Poland - 572, persistent Sweden is chasing. I think we're gonna chase Sweden out by the end of the year or at least catch up with that statistics. Sweden did not close the economy, Sweden did not choke its businesses, or it did so to a much smaller extent than Poland, so we will achieve exactly the same result, but at a gigantic cost, as we warned earlier. Why didn't you then listen to the advice of the specialists who said to go on this Swedish road, that creating collective immunity would just work? As far as statistics are concerned, we have actually caught up with Italy in terms of the number of infections. As far as the number of deaths is concerned, we are still behind the Italians, which shows that this epidemic is much less contagious with us, and yet you are not dealing with it. But Italy is bigger. If we had the same rate of death as in Italy, it's really hard for me to imagine how our health care would survive. In the statistics of deaths we have already chased Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Denmark, which we have compared with before. You have to make money to fight the virus first. It's not free, it's all expensive. At the same time, we are not only launching giant, often unnecessary programs, like a national show, and buying record-breaking expensive tests, more expensive than in Germany, but at the same time we are choking on an economy that we do not allow to earn so that we can fight this pandemic for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. I understand he's well now. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u228	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Dobromir Sosnierz said, unfortunately, the specialists who said that this scenario was going to happen were not listened to. At this point, of course, this is happening. You've closed down the economy, you've selectively closed down certain sectors of the economy. The translations to this very often had so absurd that you could laugh at it. You closed the gyms because, as one of your ministers said, there are low ceilings. You closed the restaurants because, like the other minister said, there are people out there. As we asked about the appropriateness of wearing masks, showing information from WHO that these masks in public space are completely pointless, the head of the GIS at the meeting said: Ladies and gentlemen, these masks should be primarily a symbol for the people to know that there is a pandemic going on. As we have suggested, perhaps it would be worth reading the Great Barrington Declaration, it is one of the ministers present at the meeting with Prime Minister Morawiecki and with our Members, he said to one of our Members, I quote: you are still young, so you may not care, but think of your grandparents. Such an infantile, primitive response in such a serious discussion about the whole society was something that should simply exclude this man from the discussion at that time. You don't have a good solution. You've ruined the economy. At this point, you're saving it with some ridiculous shields that don't actually respond to the real needs of those people whose companies have been shut down. Unfortunately, it looks very bad. And I'll tell the rest when I get another minute with the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u229	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u230	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have traditionally asked about people in a homeless crisis. How will they be vaccinated? On the Ministry's website, the national vaccination program website, we read that a doctor will be eligible for vaccination, which means we have the same situation as in the case of tests. People, mostly uninsured, in a homelessness crisis they are unable to receive benefits, which should be universal and according to the declaration of the Ombudsman of the Ministry of Health - free of charge because they must pass through this stage of medical qualification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u231	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Pandemic has become an important test to check the state of preparation of the state institutions in the crisis. This reality has also shown how dramatic the situation of medical agents, hospitals, clinics, clinics and other health care units is. The Ombudsman constantly receives complaints that there are no vacancies in hospitals, the lack of medical equipment, staff and uniform procedures, and medical staff are part of this system of social solidarity and without restoring them a fair, decent remuneration, this system will never change. For years, low wages have forced many hours of work to cover staff costs. If medics, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, paramedics worked eight hours a day, the health system would have collapsed and choked long ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask for information, concrete information, when you will finally take such action to improve the health system and to ensure that the salaries of medical staff are finally worthy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I do not know how much the Minister would like to tell you that health care in Poland is good. This is not so good and this does not only apply to the elements of this system, but from Western Pomerania to Podkarpaca we are in a critical situation, and especially in district hospitals. There in non-COVID units there are unheard of situations. Patients are denied admission. They say we wait until there's a vaccine. Someone who's diagnosed with cancer has to wait a few months. Other people are removed from hospitals to hospitals. I therefore ask a specific question on behalf of the inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Minister, please answer in writing, what assistance has the Ministry of Health been sent to county hospitals in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u235	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the burden of fighting the epidemic lies with public health hospitals, hospitals that are mostly seriously indebted or balanced on the brink of financial collapse. At the moment, they need financial security. It is about the means to fight not only the epidemic, but also to fight for the health and life of patients and patients suffering from other, very serious diseases. Therefore, I will ask for answers, preferably in writing: When will the government provide financial security to indebted hospitals so that they can focus on effective treatment of patients? What steps will this be, and how long will it take? What specific measures are envisaged for hospitals in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship? I am particularly interested in district hospitals in Ostród, New City of Lubawskie, Działdowo, Iława, Bartoszyce, Braniewo, Lidzbark Warmiński and Elbląg. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u237	Thank you, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was in some propaganda cabaret, and I'm angry because I was cheated. I came here to help people, while I live in a 5-star hotel, one of the most expensive in Warsaw and I sit in an empty hospital. Earnings are high, operating costs are huge. Of course, it's the voice of that doctor at the National Hospital who came: I'm ashamed that I'm involved. So, a comparison. Lifeguard's earnings for a month in Bielsko-Biała - 2 thousand. gross PLN, earnings at the National Hospital for 84 hours - 12 600 PLN. Availability of the bed on the National - 822 zł, availability of a station with ventilation - 3700 zł. Please compare how much it costs to treat one patient in a hospital at the National Stadium and in a hospital in Koszalin. Second question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which group of vaccinations will the teachers and vendors be in? Third question. Tell me if older people are 60 or 65 years old. Because there's some conflicting information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u239	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The doctrine of the governments of the SLD, the Civic Platform and the PSL in patching the budget hole was privatisation. It was from privatization of Polish companies that this hole was buried. How's the Griffin shipyard? How's the Griffin shipyard? Despite social opposition, I participated in such actions, among others. Polish Lotus against privatisation of State Forests. That's bullshit. Today, these companies are very much supporting the fight against the coronavirus. Minister! I wanted to ask: What influences, what amounts of the Treasury companies have just transferred to fight the coronavirus, and what are planned in this regard? And here too, Minister, on behalf of the inhabitants of the southern part of the Łódź voivodship, the Paczycza district, Wieruszowskiego, I would like to thank you very warmly, because today good news has come to Wieluń. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many, the blood donation station will receive a separator for the collection of the plasma of the healers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we know, vaccines aren't modern enough to import themselves and organize vaccinations, which is why I have a few questions. How can you not? Szumowski is... Is the government already in the process of preparing the entire implantation process, from ordering a specific preparation to inserting a needle? And I'm not talking about general numbers, general ideas, specifically: Do we know where the vaccines will be stored? Have the initial vaccination facilities and personnel been designated? What about the responsibilities that these people are now fulfilling? Do we know who will be vaccinated first? How will these people be selected and notified? Are the persons responsible for preparing the various stages? How are these tasks now being carried out? In short, will we be ready when the vaccine appears, or will it be a show again [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the style of the largest airplane in the world, which the Prime Minister himself will unload in front of the whole of Poland, and then the government will start wondering what to do next? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u243	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Coronavirus pandemic exposed all the pathologies of the health system. Before the pandemic, our health system was under an IV, and today it's under a ventilator. Dramatic shortcomings try to patch up the citizens themselves by organizing dropouts, collections. That was the case, for example. at the Lower Silesian hospital in Milicz. My question concerns nurses and nursing. The Minister said that a third wave of pandemics is approaching or may be approaching, and we are prepared to do so. I would like to ask how we are prepared for the third wave of pandemic in the context of nursing care. In Poland we have 233 thousand. Nurses. The average age was 52 years. Dramatically, the number of nurses in hospitals is decreasing. I would like to ask what your pandemic experience in this professional group has taught you. Is there a plan, a strategy or even any thought (the bell) about a strategy in the context of access of Poles to nursing care? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u245	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To cure a patient, you need the patient's trust in a doctor. In order to overcome the pandemic, we need citizens' confidence in the government. And that trust has been disappointed. At the beginning of the pandemic we heard that she would not come to Poland, then we heard that she would not be dangerous, then we heard that there was no need to test. Then the forests were closed, which was incomprehensible to Poles. Then again, we were told to wear masks restrictively, and we didn't have enough tests. Then in May it turned out that the pandemic had gone and we were to feel safe. Poles didn't know whether to be careful or not, they lost confidence. Then came the fall, which gathered a very painful harvest, so many thousands died during this pandemic. On top of that, the lines in the hospitals, the ambulances going back and forth, unable to leave the patient in the hospital because there was no room. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles don't understand it because they heard everything was fine. And it's not okay. How do you want to convince Poles to immunize Coronavirus when this work is coordinated by a politician? Politicians are the least trusted in our country. How do you want to convince Poles to want to vaccinate themselves? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u247	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u248	Minister! I want to crash two entities: National Hospital and County Hospital. The first one costs 21.5. Million a month. Every month the board of this hospital costs Polish taxpayers 629 thousand. zł. It's a hospital that pays over $3,000 for its willingness to accept a patient. PLN, while in other hospitals this amount amounts to approx. 200 PLN. And the second entity, i.e. the county hospital, e.g. The county hospital in Kłodzek County is rescued by local government, residents, people who collect money and organize physical aid. Minister! In order to maintain the functionality of the hospital just in Kłodzek, the Kłodzki County Council recently transferred 2900 thousand at the session. zł. This money took from other investments, but it took it to save the functionality of this hospital and to allow people, residents of a large, large district to access it. The financing of hospitals is [[♪ The bell ♪]] the duty of the State. It's a constitutional obligation that the government doesn't do. I want to ask you how much more, how much longer will you spend public money on the one hand, and how much longer you use local governments to save health care and access to the health services of residents on the other hand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u249	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. Minister... Mrs... Take a look at it. Maybe it'll come in handy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that we will certainly ask for the rejection of this information, because we believe that what has been happening since the beginning of the COVID issue is compromising this government. I remember springtime, I remember those words of satisfaction, it's a belief that we're in control of everything. And then I remember November, where we have 90%. more deaths than in November of the previous year. We have our own Lombardy, we have our own Wuhan, we have our own situation in which no one could control the fact that the coronavirus in the second wave, which is really the first wave, will rule over the Polish society. For me, however, what will happen in the future is crucial. Indeed, our hope is vaccination, so it is worth encouraging everyone to immunize. But I don't understand why we're probably the only country I've read about, where uniforms are in front of social workers. I'm not talking about those who work in the DPS. I can't understand the priorities this government has. If we want to let the kids go to school, we have to vaccinate them. teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why are uniforms so important? Only in authoritarian states are uniforms in front of everyone else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u251	Thank you, Member. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The only Mrs. PiS Messenger! High Izbo! A few months ago, I said that Poles and Poles were afraid of pandemics, but they were even more afraid of pandemics under the rule of Law and Justice. Unfortunately, I was right. Scams, scams, fake news and anti-vaccine propaganda of hay by leading PiS politicians, including the president, information about ice in panties, idiotic bans and lack of real support from health professionals, show that you have brought chaos greater than a pandemic. I understand, Minister, that you are here to clean all this up after Mr. Szumowski. Hence the specific questions, Minister. Well, if you're cleaning up, what are your plans to strengthen health workers to make better money, make them feel safer to have more? Because today we know that these additional benefits for the chosen are not very effective, they are not helping new workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the other thing. You've forgotten everything else. Minister, I ask you to answer in writing how many people have had cardiac and oncology surgeries delayed, how many people have been left unaccounted for by the fact that you have closed hospitals in a chaotic way, this necessary help, which often saves lives, has not been received. I ask for a specific answer, for specific information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u253	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u254	Thank you very much, Marshal. I am very pleased, Minister, that you are and I can tell you what is happening in the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, because I think you just don't know it. I'm abstracting politics. I'm just gonna focus on merology. Well, in Świętokrzyskie voivodship, the hospital in Skarżysk-Kamienna became a hospital of COVID only for 3 weeks. Although we warned the Świętokrzyskie voivodeship that this is an irrational and bad decision for residents, because there are many districts around which will be deprived of access to treatment in a multi-profile hospital, the voivode did not listen. After three weeks, he said he was right. That's not all. The temporary hospital in Kielce, as you know, has been opened loudly. There were beds, cardio monitors or ventilators. After less than a week, neither these beds nor this equipment are left, they are moved next door. Maybe someday they'll come back, maybe they won't. But the problem is something else. Well, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were heart clinics in Starachowice. They've been wiped out. Today, the local government wants the clinic to be able to treat cardiovascular diseases again in the buildings. Please allow the local government to treat patients from the northern part of the voivodship, so that the number of deaths due to heart disease and circulatory failure is simply lower. And that's what I'm asking you to follow up on what's going on with access to these kinds of benefits. I'm asking you to, and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u255	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In your speech, you asked us to only discuss the facts. So I would like to tell you about such a few facts from Lublin today. Fact one, November 2nd. There is an accident on the route from Vladava to Chełm. The accident is the collision of a passenger car with a motorcycle. Two seriously injured motorcyclists first are being taken by ambulance to a hospital in Włodawa. They can't be accepted for lack of seats. Then they are taken by ambulance to a hospital in Chelm. They can't be accepted for lack of seats. What are the consequences? They both die in an ambulance. Fact number two, beginning of November. The hospital in Kraśnik states that there is a lack of oxygen, 15 patients with COVID must be taken from this hospital to the hospital in Łęczna and Lublin. Third fact, mid-November. A queue in front of one of the hospitals in Lublin for 20 hours. Paramedics say they prefer to help people with COVID at home (the bell) rather than take them to the card because they will have to wait several or 20 hours in this ambulance. That's the facts of Lublin, Minister. Thank you very much. One more sentence, Marshal. Therefore, I have a proposal that the point we are talking about should not be: the Prime Minister's information on the state of preparation of medicinal products for an increased number of COVID diseases, but takes the wording: the Prime Minister's information on the non-preparation of medicinal products. Okay, but that's non-essential. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u257	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's supposed to be about facts. The first fact is that Mr Łukasz Szumowski has not been seen since 26 August. This is how they end up, ladies and gentlemen, ministers who resign without explanation. Minister, you know this because we met with Mr Ionski and talked about certain irregularities and our concern. But everything looks like you've been in charge of this resort since August 26th, so I'm asking you what you did from August 26th to October 30th to secure the interest of the Treasury to recover the amount of PLN 70 million. Because this is the manko that you have in the health department budget, this is the money that was supposed to be returned to the ventilators, and it wasn't returned. Has the ventilator contract been evaluated by the Attorney General? What has been done since the signing of the agreement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, since the end of June, in order to secure the interest of the Treasury? Where are the resources, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u259	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are wondering if there will be a third wave, and we have experience from the present time. Some are bitter, probably difficult for you, but also for those who want Poles to get good medical help. I'd like to ask you a question about the information on the vaccines. You're saying there's gonna be a lot of ease for those who get vaccinated. And what about those who have had a disease and have natural immunity due to infection, have they developed antibodies? They ask that, they work in different professions, and they're of different ages. Secondly, the issue of county hospitals, which were obliged to convert part of their branches into COVID branches. At the moment, the question arises. First of all, it was uneven, so to speak, using this base. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In many hospitals it was used entirely, in others - partly. And, of course, hospitals now have this problem that some of the staff are starting to run away and would like to go back to some functions. This is justified in terms of medical services, which in terms of e.g. gynecology or surgery in county hospitals could be performed because the number of people who are being hospitalized has decreased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u261	Thank you, sir. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u262	Dear Marshal! Minister! A few conclusions. Firstly, holidays should be organised for 8 weeks, not for 2 - here we will argue - because of the safety of children and young people. If everyone leaves at the same time, it'll be cumulation. It's just dangerous for health. There's a request not to leave. This also saves the economy in your district, Madam, to the Court of Justice, where this Sunday there will be a great protest of people who are about to have nothing to live for. The second thing is vaccination. They should also take place in pharmacies. Pharmacies should be involved in the vaccination process and restrictions should be lifted immediately for all who are vaccinated. It's intended to promote vaccination. The whole government should be vaccinated in the first place - all ministers headed by the Prime Minister. Maybe even Andrzej Duda's unbelief can convince him to inoculate himself. [[Applause]] That's the other thing. The third issue is the opening of private health services. This is necessary for all non-COVID patients. The point is that it should not be paid out of the patient's pocket, only from the NFZ, because if, paying a contribution, we cannot get into the public health service (the bell) then we should have an open private, paid from the state budget, from the NFZ. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First thing. I have a question for the Minister. Yesterday, a request from Rawa Mazowiecka regarding the hospital was omitted from the list of proposals for the government's local investment programme. It's about expanding the pavilion into an O.R. This is a very important matter, expected for years. Minister, I ask you very much to intervene in this matter. I know you can work on that. The people of this county count on it very much. The second point concerns the scheme of incentives for vaccination against COVID-19. For now, the ones you presented yesterday at the committee and in the strategy paper are really very poor. The question is, are you going to expand this fan? We as Coalition Poland believe that the person who will vaccinate against COVID-19 should be among others. exempted from various limits, sharpens (Bingle), e.g. with the need to wear a mask. Minister, is that possible? At what stage? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Over 1 million 100 thousand. people have COVID, we have over 21 thousand. Deaths. In November, over 30,000 died. More Poles. Look what's going on in this room. One person from the PiS is interested in this debate. This is a scandal and this is a symbol of how you approach it, how you take responsibility for protecting the health of Poles. This is outrageous, what you're saying. The Minister said that the numbers didn't lie, so I'm going to quote a few figures in terms of the number of deaths in my territory, November to November. Shamots - in 2019 - 34 deaths, in 2020 - 89, my family Pniewy - last November six people died, this year 14, Nowy Tomyśl - 33 last year, including - 61, Oborniki - in 2019 - 23 persons, in 2020 - 71. It really is, Minister, a disaster. My question is cancer prevention. Cancer won't wait. Given what is happening and what (the bell) are the delays, I must say that this harvest will be reaping for the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start with what sounded like here a moment ago, but it was also mentioned earlier that I'm the only member of the PiS who's in the O.R. Well, the only one. Ladies and gentlemen, you are addressing your marshal. Isn't your marshal PiS? Is the Member who sits here... But someone has to sit... Ha, ha, ha! Isn't he from the PiS? Ladies and gentlemen, have you forgotten that we have a remote session? Congratulations. He asked me to articulate this to Mr Kapinos of Mielec. We're in a remote session. How about Mr Szumowski? In case you have not noticed, Mr Szumowski is also participating in the proceedings remotely. Is it? Is it important for you today in this important debate to see how many people are sitting in the Chamber, whether it is important to see how the fate of all Poles goes on... What's your limit? Yes. ...about their health and the economy of our country? What's your limit? After all, we know that the pandemic hit not only health, but also the economy and not only Poland, but also our neighbours (The Bell) and actually the whole world. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Members have asked me to tell them that they are taking part in the deliberations, that they are listening to the debate, but what is there to listen to? Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, you go out and say there weren't enough diseases, too many diseases. We are all responsible for the health safety of Poles. Your marshal, time. Member. Ladies and gentlemen! Are we supposed to be in the debate or not? Marshal, this is a scandal. I have a question... Member, but go to the end. I've been extending it for everyone. ...in terms of vaccines, Minister... We're the ones who want to go to the podium again. Your Marshal, 47 seconds. You're being unfair. You don't have to be nice. You're being unfair. I'm asking for a wider information campaign because there are concerns, and such behavior... Thank you very much, Member. The question is, thank you very much. On the other hand, it does not convince you to immunize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u269	Ladies and gentlemen! Madame, don't threaten me with a finger because I'm trying to be nice and elegant. Marshal, you don't have to be nice, you have to be fair. Madam President, we will not talk in this way. I've spent more time on each of the MPs. I've never turned off anybody's microphone. Remember that and be fair. Thank you very much. Member, I am done here. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Zosch, two minutes. Member, was that elegant? Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the tourism industry, which is in complete collapse. Entrepreneurs are prepared for the winter season. Meanwhile, the industry was completely shut down. My question, Minister: What are the chances of securing and guaranteeing this in terms of health, the safety of tourists, as well as the citizens, that you will agree to reduce these restrictions a little bit, to lift the restrictions, otherwise it will be a total, huge bankruptcy? I'll just say the Czechs have completely opened the season. Yes, there are limitations. And I'm not appealing to put up with all the restrictions. Do we want all tourists to go to the Czech Republic (the bell), or do we want to deprive our entrepreneurs of their income and deprive tourists of their leisure opportunities? After all, many of them are already sick. Yes, sir. I ask you to answer that today because entrepreneurs and residents are waiting for what answer I will give them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u271	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. One more word before I cast my vote to the Member who threatened to do so. Open the Polish mountains. Let me remind you, please check how much time Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz has received, which asked a very substantive question, and therefore in no way has this scope been restricted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, sir. This lady's name is Monika Wielichowska. You should know, Marshal. You know what, learn culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u272	Minister, how much sanatorium infrastructure has been used, how much are you planning to use it for? It is well prepared, there are people, there are facilities, there are various services possible, there is even a part of the medical facilities, and above all we would support business. We could move on permanently, because there is such development when it comes to new places in sanatoriums through private investments, that we could take over part of this infrastructure from local authorities, which is, even permanently. I understand it was July, August and September. But do you do additional training, staff preparation? I know that the services prepared for medical services will not be fully developed, but it is possible to help. There are students willing to go in different directions, related. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A number of people, if they had a chance to work, would have taken courses like this. And finally there is the problem of people from abroad who work. It is thanks to them that construction and various industries function, and GDP is created. How much will you secure support for this group of people because they are good for the Polish economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question is very simple: What is the point of building these temporary hospitals, which, in fact, if they are located in rooms not adapted to hospital, medical functions, serve only as very expensive and very expensive isolates? In Wrocław, the conference rooms of one of the private companies were selected for such a temporary hospital. The cost is estimated at around 40 million. Meanwhile, two hospital buildings, former hospital buildings - the former hospital Marciniaka on the street. Traugutta and the railway hospital stand empty, undeveloped. Wouldn't it be better to manage, refresh those buildings that have full tooling, complete infrastructure to perform the functions of COVID hospitals, rather than build another costly isolate in partnership with the private [[♪ The bell ♪]] An entrepreneur? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I'm an employee of a voivodship observation and infectious hospital, a hospital where two infectious clinics operate. So I'm in direct contact with the front people who are on a daily basis with the coronavirus. Do you know what they asked me to do? They asked me to ask you, when I met the minister, if you knew that besides doctors and nurses in a hospital like this, they're still salvageable, they're lab diaphragm, they're sterilization workers and they're cooks. They get about a minimum wage in our country. Is the Minister thinking of those who make up this hospital's system? Without their work it would not be possible (the bell) to make efforts by doctors and nurses to save human health and life. I appeal to the Minister to lean very firmly on what I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u278	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the situation with the coronavirus in the country is not simple, but I would like to ask the Minister what are these spectacular actions that you have been running since spring. First, welcome fluid, including organoleptic evaluation of liquid in Orlena, then masks transported by antone, now organizing temporary hospitals in stadiums, while there are empty hospitals: Southern hospital in Warsaw, hospital in Katowice, hospital in Łódź, hospitals in Białystok, Institute of Labor Medicine and Environmental Health in Sosnowiec. These hospitals should be used for this, and you're doing the show again. Is there not enough drama? Do you have to increase the drama? I think that's what you're trying to scare the Poles with. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u279	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u280	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! School. Unfortunately, the school is experiencing a very difficult time. Those who were last year had a problem because teachers were on strike and the second semester actually, you could say, in a large part did not happen. Now, this year, since March, we've had closed schools and preparations for remote learning. It came out a little bit, a little bit didn't. Now we're getting a little used to this remote science, although of course we don't like it, nobody likes it. Some teachers, of course, work in a very dedicated way and do everything they can to get their students out of it, but we can agree that it is still a pretend school. Unfortunately, however, it is decided that the school is to be closed all the time. We've already lost our first semester. When are you going to decide to open these schools? I don't want to hear that we're planning, we're wondering, we'll see, we'll check. I would like you to say that there is a scenario of getting out of this crisis for Polish education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u281	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By decision of the Pomeranian voivodeship, the county hospital in Puck was transformed into the so-called. COVID hospital. By participating in one of the television programmes, I responded to Mrs Olga Semeniuk's appeal, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, to join the work on combating the effects of the epidemic. Several times I asked the Minister to supply cleaning supplies, toilet paper, medical primers to the county hospital in Puck. I passed the Minister's phone number to the old man. It's been a month. No response, no contact. Therefore, our colleagues and I purchased cleanliness for this hospital, but it was only enough for two days. I have no intention of appealing once again to the Minister and her conscience. On behalf of the staff, because it is not my own, and the patients of the hospital I am asking the Minister, believing that this time the appeal for help for the hospital in Puck will not go into vacuum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u283	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, to answer these questions. How much time do I have, Marshal? Five minutes, but the subject is so important, I won't be restrictive here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u284	I don't think I can fit in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen! I listened to all of these comments with great attention and appreciation. All the time I want to declare that my openness to cooperation is open to every conversation, for every discussion, also for meetings, for an exchange of arguments - because unfortunately we all see that the discussion about COVID is political from the very beginning. Of course I try to separate this policy because COVID has no political color, COVID affects everyone. Perhaps more often and with greater consequences are affected by people who suffer from multiple diseases or who are of advanced age. But just a cross-section of your questions and comments, the opinion shows what a challenge, what a comprehensive issue is the fight against a pandemic. This applies not only to the place where COVID is treated, most often to the hospital. This concerns very different dimensions of the functioning of the state, because these are simply connected vessels. The economy with the medical care system has to live in balance, because one condition determines the other. I think that this pandemic also teaches us a lot about how much it is worth investing in the health of Poles, because it is very closely connected with the economy. These are really connected vessels, this is actually one organism. However, in this political debate on pandemics, I would like us to treat one issue in a non-political way. These are, of course, deaths. Deaths are the greatest concern not only for the Minister of Health, but also, of course, for doctors, for all staff. This is the issue that is at the moment the most important, that is the priority of priorities. Let us not interpret these deaths politically, let us not interpret them in such a way as to burden them with political timbre, because these are tragedies of people, these are tragedies of families, these are tragedies, which, in fact, have affected many, many families in Poland, looking at the number of deaths. As regards the number of deaths, indeed the pandemic contributed not only directly but also indirectly to the increase in the number of deaths in Poland. Firstly, this greater number of deaths in Poland compared to previous years actually in about 20-30% is related to COVID. But it's growing, that is, we have more COVID deaths in this greater number of deaths compared to previous years. Secondly, COVID also causes this increased number of deaths indirectly. We have analysed this problem very carefully, because, as I said, it is a priority for us. It turns out that at least 10% more , another 20% these deaths are indirectly related to COVID, i.e. indirectly in such a way that in people who have COVID, in the case of multi-morbidity and in the case of advanced age, unfortunately we notice deaths after about 30 days and more after COVID has been ill. It means it's not COVID's death, but COVID certainly contributed significantly to the fact that people who suffer from other diseases, then simply get worse. We must also say to ourselves openly that some of these deaths are related to the limitation of access to health care, because we had to allocate some of the resources, some of the hospital beds, to hospitalize those patients who are in the heaviest COVID states. Here there is no possibility of expanding the bed base infinity, here you need to manage limited resources. Therefore - answering one of the questions - so important is flexibility (the bell), which is above all that if we see now that this number of hospitalizations is decreasing, we must immediately reduce the availability of beds in the system for fighting COVID. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, paradoxically, temporary hospitals are a very good solution from the point of view of the healthcare system, because they can take over part of the care of the less ill, of those who are coming out of serious condition, without burdening on the standard hospital infrastructure that we can use or dedicate simply to the treatment of standard diseases that we also have to deal with. The main killer in Poland is still cardiological diseases, and oncology is still the dominant, second, in terms of the number of deaths, the killer in Poland. That's why we need to reduce this number of beds so quickly, and that's why there are situations where for three weeks some hospital has become a COVID. From my point of view, this is a reflection of good hospital infrastructure management, because as soon as possible, these beds were intended for the treatment of these main killers in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Since deaths are the most important challenge that we focus on, we have, of course, undertaken research and action in addition to analysis. Firstly, I would like to tell you that, for about two weeks, the guidelines for medical emergency teams have been amended to take patients with sats below 94%. So far this number of refusals - because we have also analysed this issue - has been alarmingly large. Since the beginning of the process, we have seen that these are the numbers that have reached thousands of volumes, so we have introduced new guidelines that explicitly order a patient with sats below 94%, and we have the first results. I would also like to provide you with graphs in writing, which show how the number of refusals and transport curves or patients transported to the hospital is spreading after these guidelines. Because according to specialists, according to the Medical Council of the Prime Minister, the main cause of the increasing number of deaths in the field of COVID is the late transport of the patient to the hospital. In order to do this, we have been interested in the operation of medical rescue teams, examining exactly what the individual steps are like, waiting times, which is a problem in patient transport. Therefore, in addition to these guidelines, a special IT system was created, which on the basis of booking places showed the occupation of beds in individual hospitals. This was a new solution that we introduced two months ago or 1.5 months ago, but since the quality of the information introduced into these systems raised doubts, I decided, in agreement with the Minister of Defence, to send out troops of territorial protection, to provide objective information to this system, but of course also to relieve hospital workers from administrative, bureaucratic work. The second answer is that the patient should be hospitalized at the right time, this is the mass program we've launched. I think that this will be one of the reasons to please us as you, because it will be a mass program, unprecedented on a European scale - this is home medical care using pulsoximeters, means devices that monitor saturation, or oxygenation of blood. These are the devices that, using smartphones and special applications, transmit data to the monitoring center, are to inform the doctors and consultants sitting there that something bad is happening that we are dealing with a crisis situation. Looking at the statistics of this programme, I would like to tell you that within a few weeks of its operation we have managed to bring about such a situation that we now have nearly 30,000 of them covered by the programme. patients. It's almost 30,000. patients, to each of them has been sent a pulsoximeter, each of them will be activated and the information will be sent to the monitoring center. Unfortunately, we also had a situation that in more than 30 cases - but this is what this program was supposed to serve - there were sent medical rescue crews just to patients covered by this program. This is an innovative solution, which I hope will allow you to take care of the patient in a modern way and catch the moment when the patient requires hospital intervention, when the medical emergency team should take this patient away. The second topic, which has been discussed in your opinions, but also questions, concerns the valuation of temporary hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, let's compare apples to apples, not apples to pears. The temporary hospital and its valuation, which has been prepared by the specialized institution that we have to do this, the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, is a hospital which is financed only from daily rates, which are precisely in the evaluation of this institution. You can't compare it to the valuation of a sick person who is, so to speak, paid at the hospital. the district, just like the state you reported because the county hospital, apart from the patient rate, receives the entire long list of revenues from the National Health Fund, starting mostly with a lump sum, i.e. a fixed payment, plus a standby fee, for compensation of various types, where the fee fee for service comes as the marginal value of what the hospital receives in sum from the NFZ. The temporary hospital has no income, it has only a rate per patient, so this rate must compensate for all categories of costs which the county hospital has compensated in the form of a lump sum, which, after all, covers all salaries, or in the form of other charges for readiness, which are paid on the COVID network. So that if we were to compare these costs and add all these cost components to the rate at the county hospital, we would have a comparable valuation, a comparable price. So let's compare apples with apples, not apples with pears. The third topic that has appeared in your inquiries concerns, as I see it, remuneration. This is especially about what has become the object of various manipulations, which is a supplement for medical staff. I'll try to make it as simple as possible. Well, we have two groups of medical personnel that we pay the allowances to. One is the staff that is guided by the voivode, and then we have a statutory regulation which is the basis for paying this supplement, and each person directed by the voivode to work in connection with the COVID receives this supplement - each. Whether it's a doctor, whether it's a nurse, or it's a paramedic, each of them gets a supplement like this. The second basis for the payment of allowances is the instruction which I gave to the National Health Fund on 1 November so that people who are not directed by the voivode, who work in COVID hospitals, in COVID units, i.e. those that are indicated by the voivode to fight COVID - they are of course well known, because we have publicly available information about them - the supplement for the whole of November, which was the basis for its calculation, and of course the following months. This is based on this command, which was issued on November 1st. Here we have an authorized group of doctors, nurses, paramedics and laboratory diagnostics who work in hospital labs. Compared to the previous solution, we have expanded this group with rescuers and laboratory diagnostics. But, what is important, earlier this money was paid only to people who, I stress, were fighting COVID. Now they don't just have to work here - if they go to another ward, they don't lose that supplement, they're gonna get it. Because I knew that today, when I was preparing to meet you, I asked the National Health Fund for a summary of what the question of paying this supplement was like on the basis of a recommendation. We have information that we have close to $3,000. Doctors, 7,000. Nurses, nearly 2,000. Lifeguards, in the rest of the competitions, which are diagnes and others entitled, that's 990. Total amount of reported demand for funds... Demand is reported after a full month, i.e. a month needs to be worked, an invoice is issued, and the NFZ needs funding, so the payment for November will take place around mid-December, i.e. at the turn of this week and next week. The demand already reported for payment of these expenses is PLN 40 million per month for staff allowances. Ladies and gentlemen! Turning to the next issue, I would like our discussions on the pandemic to be based on the fact that, based on numbers, based on mutual respect, about not screaming, just a fair discussion. Why? Because it is only in this way that we are able to generate some of the political capital that Mrs Kidawa-Błońska was talking about. I don't see her. I think she left. Social capital, which will build trust, which is particularly important in the context of the vaccination that awaits us. Let us not really act like little children who will unfreeze their parents' ears, and let us not play some values that then affect public health in Poland. We are talking about health, not the world view - about health. Ladies and gentlemen, preparing for vaccination, we have all the logistics actually written down. I think we're in the avant-garde of countries... Oh, Jesus! In the vanguard. ...who are preparing... Listen! Ladies and gentlemen, please, if you are not interested, you can always go out into the clowns. I understand that the subject has been reported... I see it's still... ...the questions have been asked, the Minister answers these questions. If you are not interested, we can, of course, end this speech. But I don't think that's what we meant. That's what the Minister was talking about a moment ago. I can see that it is impossible to talk in such a cultural atmosphere. I'm afraid so. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as vaccination is concerned, we have contracted 62 million doses, I stress, vaccination doses. Since most of these vaccinations require a double dose, it completely protects the needs of the population of Poland. This means that every citizen of our country has a guaranteed right to vaccination and it is up to him to decide because we have decided that the vaccination decision will be voluntary. In order to promote this decision and this voluntaryity, as a country, we take on a greater commitment because we need to convince citizens. Convince, firstly, that vaccination is safe and, secondly, that the benefits of vaccination are benefits that are not only health-related, not only to the resilience of the population, but also to what was going on as a thread in your statements, to return to the normal functioning of the economy. That's why we're going to want, first of all, to offer reliable knowledge. This is about system solutions, services, actions, campaigns, solicitation not just because we want people to inoculate themselves, but to provide reliable knowledge of vaccinations. Besides, in the strategy that we have published, which is called: the national vaccination programme, you can really find a lot of specific knowledge about vaccinations that we have contracted, what types of vaccination technologies are being used. And these technologies are not new at all, because these are technologies on which companies, laboratories, have been working for 15 and 17 years, as Mr Rutka mentioned at the committee meeting, and thank you for taking such a substantive approach. As regards the issue of vaccination safety, no vaccination that fails to pass certification will, of course, pass admission to the European market, be promoted by us. As you know, there are various vaccines operating in the world, there is much talk about the Russian, Chinese vaccine, but these are unverified vaccines that have not undergone clinical trials, and they absolutely cannot be authorised in Poland because the safety of our citizens is the most important one. Only after certification, after marketing, after the decision of the European Commission - because it is really a voice allowing here - we are able to start vaccination in a few days. The next issue that's been going through here is testing and testing. This is another topic about which the confusion around him is either due to misunderstanding, or is simply conscious manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have decided on such a system of testing our citizens, which is aimed at testing symptomatic persons. Therefore, if the pandemic slows down, if we have fewer people with symptoms, if we have fewer diseases, then we also perform fewer tests. But as we noticed, this number of tests from the level of 80,000. It's starting to drop below 50,000, but in order to maintain this reliable level of testing in the population, we've introduced antigen tests. I would like to tell you that we have recently bought nearly 2 million tests, most of which have already been distributed around the country. We introduced these tests, first of all, in those places where it is necessary to decide quickly what path a patient needs to be led, so these tests were passed to the emergency rooms, to the S.R.s, in the next step we passed them to ambulances, and now it is time to send a large number of tests to the DPS to test both the staff and the people there. That's how we get $40,000 now. tests, not 20,000, because almost half of these tests are antigenic, and we're not just insisting on PCR tests anymore. But, of course, we're walking away from this policy just testing or focusing on symptomatic patients. Why? Because we're not at the top of the pandemic. At the top of the pandemic, we had to focus on symptomatic patients, and now we can test more, and that's why we're dropping our hit rate in these tests. Ladies and gentlemen, Sweden. Sweden is my favorite subject, because we make various references to it, and I fear that these references are not based on reliable knowledge. I recommend today's article in the Wyborcza Gazeta - so that there is no doubt - which speaks about what is happening in the Stockholm region. Well, there are no ventilators in the Stockholm region, and the person or doctor responsible for the health situation in this district has called for additional staff, additional ventilators, to invigorate the district or hospitals in the Stockholm district. We've avoided this situation. I can say that with all my responsibility. That security buffer I was talking about at the beginning... Of course there were situations you're talking about. I'm not gonna paint green grass. Of course they appeared, only that, firstly, we reacted to them, and secondly, they were situations that happened locally, because they resulted from the fact that, although we have a security buffer, unfortunately it is not proportionate in every region and it was simply regions where this number of places was temporarily insufficient, but there were quick reactions, decisions of the voivodeships. We really need to appreciate the work of the voivodships performed during the pandemic, because it was they who largely decided that these beds were available, even if the system did not work perfectly. Your Marshal, maybe no longer prolong the appearance... Yeah, I'd love to. ...because it got long anyway, and I wanted to thank the medical staff first of all, not only for work, but also for some kind of patience, for that in contact with the patient, despite these stories, for example. patients had problems with access, showed a lot of goodwill. And in spite of these times of negative voices, I am quite convinced that both basic health care, medical specialists and hospitalists have managed. It can't be said that the pandemic has dealt with politics. We dealt with the pandemic together. Thank you. [[Applause]] And the seniors?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u285	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Member, please. Mrs... Minister, thank you very much for your long, but extremely calm, and above all your substantive and honest speech. I apologize for the extension of time, but I think the Poles were waiting for this information, so I decided not to limit the Minister's temporary speech in any way here. Lockdown, ladies and gentlemen, discussion. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If no one comes forward, I consider the list of Members of the statement to be closed. The first statement will be made by Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club. I invite you, Member, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Coronavirus has forced us and many other countries to freeze part of the economy and social life. But this period will pass and there will be a thaw. What picture will we see when they let go of the frosts of sharpenings and bans? We would all like to enjoy the vibrant Polish cities, towns and villages again. We'd like to meet again at school, at work, at a restaurant, at a movie theater. We would like to re-breathe energy into our communities, regions and agglomerations, return to the issues that have been interrupted. But I'm afraid there will be a completely different view. The view of the poorer with a large part of public collective communication, which today is dying in silence. Local connections are being eliminated and suspended due to pandemic sharpenings that have been imposed on public transport despite the lack of confirmation of the high risk of transmission of the virus by this route. They are also suspended due to a reduction in traffic driven by general indications of movement restrictions, but the government has not ensured that frozen transport has a chance to rise again. PKS courses to Świeradow-Zdrój, Zielona Góra or Lwówek Śląski were suspended, where the railway had already been closed, but also in Kłodzek, Sieradz - here is an example of the timetable, where none of the buses left this station. The distributions and lines in Gorzów Wielkopolski or Przemyśl were stopped. They disappear from the schedule of railway connections in Kujawsko-Pomorskie, which affects Laskowice Pomorskie, Czerska, Torunia, Sierpca, Bydgoszcz or Chelmża, and these are just a few examples. The list of problems in the transport sector is long and part of this list was able to address in the form of interpellation to several ministries, after a meeting with the carriers at the Parliamentary Panel meeting. The fight against Transport Exclusion, which took place in mid-November. We have stood and are still facing the challenges that the 21st century brings. Our economy needs to pave the way for modernity, and this road leads through efficient, safe and environmentally sound public transport, whose dense network of regular connections will become the foundation of a new economy. A modern, fast and green train, a suburban train, a tram or a green bus must take us to the future. However, today the sector is experiencing a crisis because of its lack of commitment, which will take us back even more, so that we will be in a worse position than before the pandemic. If we do not take care of the public transport sector, the exclusion of transport will spread instead of shrinking (the bell), and after evading the sharpening, many regions will not wake up from forced wintering, because nothing will reach there: neither the train nor the PKS, and people left by their own government will have to return to normal on foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u287	Thank you, Madam Member. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I am very sorry, because you are fighting for women's rights, and when you made an important statement, she raised important issues, here I heard laughter, giggles, walking, talking. This is not respect for women, ladies and gentlemen. Another statement, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With great pain I accepted information about the death of Katarzyna Łaniewska. She was an outstanding film and theatre actress and an anti-communist and patriot. She has played in over 80 films and shows, among others.: The Hour of W, The Thief, The Fourteen-year-old, The Clan, The Smolensk, The Grain Program and Of course The Kogel-Mogel. The famous scene in which Katarzyna Łaniewska despairs over her daughter's marriage, lamenting: oh, my daughter, my daughter, you will not be a girl for a long time, she has entered into the cultural code of the modern generation. This scene is still quoted in many contexts today. This is extremely interesting, because the first part of Kogla-mogala was filmed 32 years ago, and yet this film is entertained by more audiences. Few people know that Katarzyna Łaniewska was also involved in dubbing. Her voice can be heard in the great love of Balzac, yet more bitter tetryki, but also in the Smurfs or the Dalmatians. Most important of all, the actress cooperated with Fr. I'm an ashes. She cheered a ghost, reciting during Mass. poems. She was strongly involved in the fight against communist power. She's the one who founded the Solidarity at the Athens Theatre. For this fight she was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Katarzyna Łaniewska regularly commemorated the victims of the Smoleńsk catastrophe, sympathized with the Polish Gazeta and published columnos in the weekly She was ours, Laws and Justice, a candidate for the Senate in 2011. However, the artistic talent is something beyond the political worldview, which is why I think that her death struck all Poles alike. Thank you for the wonderful roles. Thank you for your patriotism. Hello to her memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u289	Hello to her memory. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, This will be a statement addressed to you, but I am making this statement towards you with kindness. And I wouldn't even want you to listen to it if I knew your responsibilities. I'd like you to have other responsibilities so you can just listen to it. Minister! I would like to kindly signal to you that your predecessor, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, leaving the office in a hurry, forgot to give you the key to a desk where there are interpellations that the Minister did not answer. And I'm asking you to contact the Minister, open this desk, not out of curiosity. The point is to open this desk, because what you will find there may interest you in the further management of the Ministry of Health, and this is defined - sometimes - by the rules of Polish law. Yes: On 12 June, together with a group of messengers and Members of the Left, I sent the Minister an interpellation on the personal identification of persons responsible in the Ministry of Health for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of 1200 respirators for the amount of PLN 200 million from an airline company, training pilots, also known for the arms trade, i.e. companies from Lublin. In this interpellation we asked, who at the Ministry of Health verified the reliability and the actual ability to perform this order? Who, and on what basis, decided that the payment would come from above? Who signed the transfer order for 200 million PLN? Who checked the market prices for ventilators? And we asked for names of people in the department who signed up for it. Well, on July 7, i.e. more than six months ago, Deputy Minister Kraska informed the Marshal that the answer to these questions was extremely complicated, and asked for a extension of the deadline for replying, because the Minister was then at the stage of obtaining information from the organizational cells of the Ministry of Health. I assume the Deputy Minister has already acquired this information. Is this information embarrassing, or is it incriminating, that the prepared response to this interpellation, instead of the group of Members, was found at the bottom of the desk of the then minister? Dear Minister, As shown in concrete examples by Polish media, many arms dealers, skiers, many wives of skiers, many salesmen of oscyps and Chinese counterfeit producers made life interest on pandemics thanks to the light-handed money given to them (The Bell) from the Ministry of Health. I assume that the Minister is committed to explaining any irregularities and you have no interest in taking the sins of your predecessor. Thank you very much, sir. That is why I ask you to open this desk and make sure that the answer to this interpellation goes to the parliamentarians, and also to familiarize yourself with the answer to these questions, because this might be of interest to you in terms of further management of the resort. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u291	Yes, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! She made another statement, but regarding the date of December 13th. As a rule, on 13 December we remember as the date when martial law was introduced and numerous tragedies took place in our country, where, of course, the power of that time came against Polish society. But also on 13 December 1966 in Washington Stanisław Mikołajczyk, a national activist, trade union prime minister of the government in exile after the tragic death of General Sikorski, died. He was everywhere as a man, as a Pole, a citizen, a Great Pole, where his homeland called him. As an 18-year-old young man, he participates in the Wielkopolska Uprising and as a volunteer takes part in the Polish-Bolshevik War of 1920. Since 1920 it has been involved in the activities of the folk movement - first PSL, then in its historical changes, also in exile, during the period of war and after the post-war period. He was a Member of the Sejm in the 1930s, a co-founder of the Wielkopolska Village Youth Association, and he was the president of the Sejm. He was also president of the Wielkopolska Association of Agricultural Circles. He led peasant strikes in 1937, and then in 1938 in thanksgiving he went with a 10-thousand representation of peasants and peasants in Greater Poland to Jasna Gora to thank and ask, knowing what was coming over Poland. Stanisław Mikołajczyk was a soldier in September 1939 and after the September Battle he went to emigration - first to France, then to Great Britain. It is also included in the first National Council of the Republic of Poland as vice-president, then as a member of the government, he is Deputy Prime Minister, and, as I said, after the death of General Sikorski - Prime Minister of the Government in exile. He fights with great determination for the post-war shape of Polish borders, but feels deceived by the Allies when in 1944 in Moscow he learns about the alliance between the Allies from Tehran and the border on the Curzon line. This is a direct reason for his resignation from the Prime Minister of the Government in exile on 24 November 1944. After the Yalta conference he joins the Interim Government of National Unity as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture. Some view it as a betrayal of the ideals of the London government, and he says that these thousands or hundreds of thousands of young Poles who are in and out of the forests should be saved for the future of Poland. He is the President of the post-war Polish People's Party and a Member of the National Council. Stanisław Mikołajczyk... The post-war PSL (The Bell) was also heavily attacked by Communists. We've got arrests, we've got farm pickups, we've got removals in the administration, but political murders are also daily. He's emigrating from Poland... Marshal, just one more minute. Finish your work, sir. Oh, no, not a minute. In his book "Poland raped'he wrote that the direct reason was that immunity and arrest and judgment were prepared by the military court. An active politician on emigration, who wrote in this book "Poland raped a great message for the future: A Poland will be free and democratic. Who could have predicted in 1950 and 1951 that this would actually happen. And this is the great deposit of this great Pole, the Greater Pole and also a folk movement activist for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u293	Yes, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u294	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki! Today we would like to know what the state of negotiations with the Union is and what our government really wants. It's not enough to put a picture of a secret meeting with a mask in front of the president and think it's done. It's not. My constituents want to know the truth. May Prime Minister Morawiecki guide us through this maze of decisions made and unsubstantiated, openly and secretly, because everyone is already lost. What was agreed at a private summit between President PiS Kaczyński and President Fidesz Orbán? Polish people and Poles want to know if there will be money from the Union or if we will receive the aid fund. But if you veto, what do you say to students who are unable to participate in Erasmus+? Will you give visas to Kazakhstan in return or open internships in Hungarian laboratories? If they're like that at all. How much does the threat of this veto really cost us? What is the veto and will be its relations with other Member States? Finally, Prime Minister, coffee on the bench: Are you going to get Poland out of the European Union? Of course not. If so, have the courage to say it loudly and clearly, because we did not give you that right. And if this veto leads to an exit from the Union, what will reality look like, an energy transformation in Poland? For what will we build the infrastructure needed to develop green energy? Who's gonna give us the money? Orbán da Putin, they have signed contracts. Who's gonna give Kaczynski? And I'm not talking about members of the PiS because it's part of the state mafia... Hello, hello, hello. ...but what honest man in Europe will dare trust you and give you money? You're the mob. Today, every Pole and every Pole waking up in this country breathes smog. Where will you get money to fight for clean air if not from the Union? Are you going to introduce new taxes? But where are you gonna get those taxes if everyone's going to fail right now? If you bring Poland out of the Union, it will be a rapid outflow of investment and the retreat of investors from the Polish market. And farmers who won't be able to live on subsidies anymore? Who will they sell these agricultural crops to if the EU market is closed to us? You're gonna make an intervention buyout? For how many years? Within the EU budget there is €27 billion of aid for reconstruction after pandemic - aid, not credit. And you're gonna throw it away? And where are you gonna get the money to fight the COVID? Why don't the priests give it to you? But priests don't pay taxes and they have money from people too, so if people don't have money to pay, even priests will get lost. Churches will be ruined because there will be no Union funds to renovate them. And that is not for God's forgiveness, charlatans. For many days we have been living in the sphere of conjecture, tweets and unofficial information that Kaczyński is Gowin that and Ziobro is something else. I know that in such an atmosphere you feel like a fish in water, you love to plotting quietly, stealing, talking, messing up (the bell) and sticking around. But honest people would like to know where they stand... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] I think you're talking about yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u295	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I take it I should also call you Jachira, right? Goodbye. Another statement - Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Group for. St. John Paul's Heritages II. As Parliamentary Group on John Paul II's legacy is strongly opposed to criminal, outrageous and false accusations against Saint John Paul II. John Paul II. The left-wing and liberal environments with the help of a propaganda machine have been constantly undermining the authority of the Church and St. John Paul II. They have now launched a frontal attack on the greatest Polish family, our beloved father St. John Paul II, assigning him toleration or even participation in the cover-up of pedophilia among priests in the Catholic Church. The facts are quite different, but this attack is not about facts and truth - it is about bringing on the ruins of the Church and our national and Christian values another, a new order out of all values. We would like to remind you that it was Pope John Paul II who was the greatest defender of morality in all aspects of family, social, political life, also in the Church. The Pope was a great singer of freedom, but freedom, which is born of truth and then associated with obligations, freedom given and given. He taught us the civilization of love and life in the truth that liberates man and makes him fully free. He's the one who led us across the Red Sea to a free country. It's also for the Holy Father. we owe our freedom, which we fill daily with content. Therefore, I call on Poles and Poles, all people of good will: let us not be passive, let us stand courageously in defence of our national values and the Church. It was the Catholic Church that was the foundation of our statehood, and over the centuries it has been the foundation of our free and national aspirations. Even in the most difficult times of captivity and war, Catholic priests promoted Polishness, did not hesitate to sacrifice their lives. We should mention here, for example, Fr. Ignacy Skorupka, who died, leading young people to attack in the war with the Bolsheviks, or Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszka, martyr for truth and freedom, and many, many others of our heroic priests. Let us not let God's name be called St. John Paul II was insulted and insulted in our homeland. It is our duty to our ancestors today, our responsibility to future generations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 8 December, the Pomeranian voivode Dariusz Drelich announced a list of cities and villages that will receive government support under the second tour of the local investment fund. This time PLN 237 million was allocated to the Pomeranian Voivodship. Question: "What was the amount obtained by Gdynia, Sopot and Gdańsk?" Answer: Round 0 zł. First tranche. Construction of streets, thermomodernizations, health and flood prevention projects - all of these projects were rejected. It may seem that the government is once again giving away money according to political affiliation and party keys. It shows that the concerns of local government officials, who turned out to be a sign of protest on December 1st, proved right. Prime Minister! You're the one who's been saying that you have to end up with Polish A, B and C. But when it comes to concrete things, it is you who divides Poland and Poles. It is interesting, by the way, to which Polish Prime Minister qualified the Tri-City. As a resident of the Tricity I am not in Poland either A, B or C. The zero amount of funding is located in the Tricity in Poland Z. To the fact that the current power divides citizens into sorts, we've gotten used to it, but why is it affecting cities now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. I would ask you, sir, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In August this year I submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage on further disturbing events in Program 3 of Polish Radio connected among others. with the release of Director Kuba Strzyczkowski. In this interpellation I noticed the bad situation in Program 3 of Polish Radio. I wrote that it wasn't that long ago that Triple lovers lived a wave to walk away from the radio station of excellent journalists. Then after the affair with Kazik's song and the charges against Marek Niedźwiedzki from the Three people left. Many Polish musicians have also been cut off from the station. These events caused a wave of outrage at the huge number of fans of the Three. The situation was tried to save and heal the new director and long-term journalist of the Triple Kuba Strzyczkowski, who, after a short period of work, was also unfortunately fired. At the end, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Piotr Gliński to explain and answer the questions, where in all this confusion there is room for the hearers of the Three, because it is their radio, and what actions they intend to take to make the hearers of the Three as they once faithfully want to listen to the Three. I also pointed out that if someone says their opinion and it's not in the PiS's mind, it is immediately released. I also added that the rulers are abusing their power in this matter. In his reply at the end of November, Minister Gliński stated that the issuing of programmes and programmes, the shaping of employment issues, including managers' positions or cooperation with journalists, belong to the exclusive competence of the company's board of directors. As he added, the provisions do not provide for the possibility for a shareholder to intervene in the activities of the ordinary management board. The Minister also stressed that the National Media Council, which is independent of the Minister of Culture, was responsible for the appointment and dismissal of the Management Board. The Minister also added that he presented his position on recent events in the public domain as well as in the relevant communication on the website of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. He also pointed out that as Head of the Ministry, he was not equipped with legal instruments to influence the decision of the Management Board. Meanwhile, on December 1, Marcin Kozłowski, journalist of Gazeta. pl, published information that shortly after taking up the role of director of Kuba Strzyczkowski was invited to the National Media Council, where he presented his idea for Program 3. Krzysztof Czabański and the President of Polish Radio Agnieszka Kamińska took part in the meeting. Turns out he played the lead role. then none other than Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński. According to the information provided in August by Krzysztof Czabański (Dzwonek) portal Gazeta.pl, the meeting was initiated by Piotr Gliński, who also participated in this meeting. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister Gliński, it could be concluded from my reply that your responsibilities and competences do not foresee the possibility of interfering with what is happening in Program 3 of the Polish Radio. In that case, how does this apply to the information presented in the Gazeta portal? P-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l? From this information it is clear that, although you do not have instruments to influence the situation in the media, you abuse your authority. Is this what our country is supposed to be like? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u301	Thank you very much, sir. I'm happy to listen to Three. Another statement will be made by Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u302	Today, a debate has been held through our House, in which unfortunately I could not participate, but which I listened to with pain. The left side of different shades, from the Rozenks here to the platformers, launched a hurricane attack on the idea that the state universities would finally respect freedom of speech towards the lecturers. Yeah, it really happened here. We listened patiently to the tyranny of censorists outraged by the vision of eliminating rainbow inquisitions. The Left knows that he can only win by censorship and smothering opposing views, because false ideas prevail only when they effectively suppress criticism. The true virtue of the critic is not afraid. Unfortunately, the Left tries to terrorize science with the so-called. political correctness, he tries his most absurd claims, e.g. that homosexuality is the biologically correct direction of sexual desire, to be tuned into the feathers of science. And since this claim, of course, does not withstand confrontation with facts, it refers to emotions, tries to talk about some hatred, some phobia, some offended feelings. Unfortunately, it is the Left who suffers from the factophophobia, but unfortunately the Left is offended by reality, so the left-wing activists are trying to impose on everyone such an atmosphere in which it is simply not right to ask certain questions, to state certain facts. This left-hand side is an aggressor here and is trying to stop the debate by kicking people out of university if they try to oppose it. If anyone would like to show you, for example. In a study that homosexuality is simply unhealthy, it will be more likely to be eaten than it will allow him to finish his research in peace. Besides, we had this example in Silesia when a lecturer who tried to give such a lecture was expelled from his job. On the other hand, the 72-sex pseudoscience gibberish can count on the generous support of its research with taxpayers' money, which, of course, are not needed for anything. In the open market, no one would buy such research, so the Left forces us to buy it through state universities. But okay, scientists have the right to be wrong, the right to error is necessary for the advancement of science, and that's why we tolerate even at the universities of economic professors who claim that socialism works. And we know it doesn't work, the government checks it out every day, every day it turns out it doesn't work, but they're still resistant to the facts of the dorms. All right, let them be. It is worse that on the other hand there is no readiness for debate and the Left believes that it can decree in advance what is acceptable in science and what is not. And what powers did the Members of this House have in this regard today? What right did they have to review scientists and ask them to throw them out of their jobs, or did they support them being kicked out of work? Unfortunately, we also pay taxes to universities, us, people who have different views. Since you don't smell of our taxes when you take them generously to finance your gibberish as well, unfortunately you have to accept the fact that universities are not your private farm and that people who profess free market conservative values have the same right to express them. We do not agree with the idea that abortion is evil, that homosexuality is a disorder (the Bell) that women are different from men, that people are removed from the university. Unfortunately, students who demand the removal of such teachers should be removed from the university, because they clearly do not understand what academic freedom is all about, and from such students who believe that they have the right to close the mouth of the lecturer, nothing good will grow up, only other fanatics of the rainbow inquisition will grow. I remember Professor Małajny's lectures at the University of Silesia, which were actually just one big sequence, a festival of anti-Clericalism, completely unrelated to the subject of the lecture, completely unusable to the exam or to life. Prof. On many occasions, the little man spoke of Catholics in an offensive way, and we had to endure it patiently. In return, we expect the opposite views to be equally respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u303	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. I invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday morning, the results of recruitment to the Government Local Investment Fund, a fund to help, as announced, to all Polish local governments, who on the one hand are suffering from falling revenues, and on the other hand are burdened with huge costs of fighting the epidemic. PLN 313 million were allocated to the Lublin Voivodeship. On the other hand, local government officials, when they saw the results of this recruitment in Lublin, felt victimized. Most of them are absolutely devastated because it turns out that financial support was granted with a party and political key. Financial support did not get Lublin, did not get Puławy, Łuków, Kraśnik, Włodawa, Biłgoraj, Biała Podlaska etc., etc. Why? Because the presidents and mayors of these cities do not belong to the Law and Justice, nor do they sympathize with this party. On the other hand, I promise you that we will not leave it this way, and we will ask for clarification as regards both the criteria for the allocation of funds and the results of the recruitment itself. On Monday the Lublin Parliamentary Team was convened, which is exactly what your Lublin Voivode will be asking about in detail. I promise that no wronged self-government officer will be left alone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-10-sejm-22-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 22nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The 23rd Sejm meeting convened on 15 and 16 December 2020 and the 24th Sejm meeting convened on 17 and 18 December 2020 were served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 52]]
