ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u1	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland would like to submit a request for a break, and at a break - ask the marshal to convene the Seniors' Convention, so that we can expand the agenda for informing the President of the Council of Ministers about the situation of Polish soldiers on a training mission in Iraq, about their safety. In order for us to get to know the situation and interact with the government, we need to talk. The President doesn't want to call a National Security Council, he's locked up in his political community. Parliament is from talking and taking a common position. We want to cooperate with the government on the strategy for the security of Poles and Poles, Polish soldiers. [[Applause]] We believe it is necessary to withdraw Polish soldiers from Iraq because the training mission has lost its training character. She's no longer that character, so she can't be filled. If it was an armed mission, military mission, it was different, but it was supposed to be a training mission. That is why Polish soldiers must be withdrawn. There is a need for a debate in Parliament on this subject, and there is a need for all forces to work together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're ready for this. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr... Will you accept the opposition's offer of security cooperation? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u2	Thank you very much, sir. I just wanted to clarify that I am not going to announce a break or call the Convention because a moment ago the Convention took place and this proposal came not only from the representative of PSL-Kukiz15, but also from other groups. What I promised: first of all, I know that the Special Service Committee is gathering, which will discuss this matter, and secondly, I have committed myself to talking to the Prime Minister about whether he sees this possibility, because I do not know the calendar of the Prime Minister, whether he sees this possibility and form... But the Prime Minister is here, he can answer. Oh, there's the Prime Minister. I'm sorry. Excuse me. You can ask him. You're the Prime Minister. So we'll meet, we'll talk about what form the Prime Minister might possibly be able to provide that information. But for now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not announcing a break... But the Prime Minister at any moment... ...because it was discussed, and I made a commitment to it, and I will. Thank you very much. Next formal conclusion. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL-Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I would like to make a formal request for a recess, for a summons, for a marshal, for a meeting of the Seniors Convention... He was just here. He was just a minute ago. ...in the course of which I would ask you to extend the agenda of the Sejm's sitting to inform the Minister of Justice about the situation in the Polish judicial system. We are threatened by the chaos of justice in the Polish judiciary, your marshal, High Izbo. He's here. He's here. It gives a ruling of nearly 800 judges on which there are significant doubts as to their legal qualifications. They've already passed several thousand sentences, which can easily be challenged. Worse still, law and justice officials do not want to participate in any initiatives to remedy this situation. Yesterday, a round table on justice was held on the initiative of the Polish Coalition Club and Deputy Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr... It's a shame that no one from the Council of Ministers, no one from the PiS Club... Thank you very much, sir. Time. ...didn't find time to participate in this venture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u4	First of all, Mr President, this is a non-regulatory proposal. I'm sorry, sir, but I'm not putting him to the vote. Thank you very much. The next formal proposal will be presented to Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a request for a break to complete the agenda for information from the Minister for Climate Affairs on the climate crisis and the government's actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is burning in front of us. We are witnessing dramatic events in Australia. In the face of this tragedy, we must - we must - proceed to the debate about the climate crisis, because the facts are ruthless for us. For 4 years, Polish emissions have increased and their per capita growth is today the highest in the world, Prime Minister, is higher than in India or China. The Prime Minister is cutting us off from European climate policy and risking our budget, risking funds for a fair transition. Health, the future and life. The Ministry of Climate issues further concessions for coal extraction even in the most valuable natural areas of Poland, around Poleskie National Park, in areas protected by UNESCO. Such actions (The Bell) are the arson of Poland. We demand... [[Applause]] Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u6	Thank you, Member. Madame, this issue was also discussed at the Senior Convention meeting and this proposal goes to the Committee on the Environment. That was the decision. Thank you very much. Here you go, a formal proposal - Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u7	God bless you! God bless you! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 Rules of Procedure - request for a break in order to convene the Convention of Seniors, in order to introduce the day of voting on the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the withdrawal of Polish troops from the territory of Iraq. [[Applause]] The draft resolution is short, concise. I read: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the executive bodies of the state authority of the Republic of Poland, the President and the Government of the Republic of Poland to withdraw Polish troops from the territory of Iraq. Long live Putin! The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. A copy of the draft resolution. [[Applause]] Russian. Russian. You want to be at war. You want the Polish troops to play the role of the occupation troops. That's what you want. And we don't want to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u8	Thank you, sir. This case, the fact that you will make such a request, was signalled at the Senior Convention meeting. He'll go to the National Defence Committee. Thank you. Here you go, a formal proposal - Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have Prime Minister Morawiecki with us, and he will probably speak in a moment. But what the Polish Parliament needs is a debate with the Foreign Minister, the Minister for National Defence, an invitation to the President to define today's Polish policy towards the Middle East, not, as Mr Chaputowicz says, American politics - let us wait for President Trump's statement, we will see how the United States interprets this situation. It is about how Poland interprets its situation, its interests in this area. Yesterday, President Duda made the most short-sighted statement on foreign policy in recent years that Polish soldiers were not in direct danger. Evidently bullshit. Yesterday it was said that, regardless of the will of the Iraqi Parliament and the Iraqi State, we will be watching what the United States is doing about the presence of our troops in this country. This morning, Iran's supreme leader spoke of a small, bad country in Europe, where they conspired against Iran. This is the effect of your policy. This is a terrible policy for the security of Poland. [[Applause]] Russian.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u10	Thank you, sir. Of course, I will not put the proposal to the vote because he is the same as what we discussed before. It's not the same. Perhaps the formal proposal will be made by Mr Boris Budek of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! As you can see from these speeches, you need a clear, clear voice of the Prime Minister of the Republic. Prime Minister! This is not the time for races, for who will make any declarations, but time for a reliable, substantive debate about the safety of Poles and Poles. Prime Minister! This is not the time to hide behind the PR's back and wait for what others will do, it is the time to stand here, from the High Chamber, and tell what you have, what are the concrete ideas of Polish diplomacy on the issue of the crisis in the Middle East. Prime Minister! We're from one constituency. During the election campaign, you have repeatedly avoided talking, but today is the time when we should speak with one voice. That's why, Your Marshal, these aren't just formal applications. This is a request for your marshal to interrupt this meeting - Mr Mateusz Morawiecki (Dzinek) is Prime Minister - and for Prime Minister Morawiecki to inform the High House honestly... Thank you. Thank you, sir. ...about our security policy. There's no other option. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u12	Thank you very much, sir. This is another conclusion identical. My answer is the same as before. I'm gonna give you a voice in a minute... There are two more formal proposals, and that's it. But here to Mr Braun: for the resolution to have power, there must be 15 signatures. You have eight here, so I'm asking you to... Oh, dear. Oh... I'm asking you to fill in. Okay? I would very much like to ask Mr Maciej Necessary of the Left to speak in the form of a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u13	Prime Minister! Using you... Yeah, but where without a jacket? Prime Minister! I'd like to use your presence to declare full support of the Left to the Polish State to take action to avoid war in the Middle East. Before all of us, before the opposition, before the government, before our European partners, before our American partners, this is one of the most important tasks: to avoid war in the Middle East. To this end, we are making a formal request for a break and a call to the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda for information on the escalation of the conflict in the Middle East by the Prime Minister present here. It's already been done. We don't want a war. To avoid it, we need the cooperation of all our forces and all our international partners to alleviate the conflict in the Middle East. Please consider this formal proposal positively. This is a really crucial issue for the Polish state rhyme (The Bell), for our security, for the security of Polish soldiers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u14	Thank you, sir, we are still talking about the same thing. [[Applause]] Mrs Wanda Nowicka - the last formal proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u15	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Ha, ha, ha! I would like to ask you to formally request a break and convene the Seniors Convention in order to put on the agenda the information of the Minister of Culture concerning the Polish National Foundation and its unclear and very questionable settlements. The Foundation spent over 100 million on very undefined objectives. Some promotion of Poland abroad - it is not known what this money was spent on. Stealing money. Spot with Mel Gibson - you also don't know why and how it's going to help our promotion abroad. For a meeting with journalists - PLN 1 million. I remind you that the foundation is financed entirely by dozens of companies of the Treasury. The public has the right to know how and for what this money has been spent.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u16	Thank you, Member. Madame, this is not on the agenda, and you know it. This was not the case at the Convention meeting or at the Bureau meeting at all. Therefore, I now ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen! The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Enterprise Development and Support - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: The Future of Education - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Ice Hockey Development - hour 12.40, - Parliamentary Group for: Environment, Energy and Climate - hour 14, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 5:30. In addition, I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 10.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - Health-- hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 12, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17, - Culture and Media - hour 17, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u18	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners (print No 118). Prime Minister! The Prime Minister is asking for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] There's no CEO. Bravo, Matthew!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I will take this opportunity to address a few issues that are quite distant from me, because there are some very important topics. One. I'm gonna start with the one that's bothering everyone right now, which is what's going on in the Middle East. We're in constant contact with the President. This morning, of course, I spoke to the President, last night, and we're still monitoring the situation. The primary duty of a partner within the North Atlantic Alliance, as everyone knows, is to consult with all NATO members, all members of the North Atlantic Pact. This is it, this is exactly what happened at the last meeting, where all the allies discussed how to respond to this situation, which is, of course, dynamic. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Cabinet Council convened by your President, we discussed this very carefully. Indeed, there is a mutual exchange of blows in the Middle East. The situation is unstable. It has been unstable for a long time, and for several months after the attack on refinery installations in Saudi Arabia, then the shooting of ships in the Persian Gulf, the situation has obviously worsened with General Sulejmani's liquidation. In this case, in which the United States makes its own decisions, of course that is their decision. On the other hand, we have a duty to take care of Polish soldiers. We care about Polish soldiers. [[Applause]] Bravo! This shall be done in a manner consistent with the rules of procedure and procedures of the North Atlantic Pact. We're discussing with our partners the most appropriate response. And in the context of what might happen there, I would like to appeal to the opposition to cooperate with the government... How? ...because we're trying to de-escalation... The Cabinet Council. National Security Council... ...to maintain the conditions of peace, stability as they are, of course, in the Middle East, far from what we wish for. The situation of our soldiers in Iraq is under control today. The Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Home Affairs, with whom I am in constant contact, monitor this situation properly on-line. We have additional reports every hour that are coming down from Iraq. Decisions to be taken in this case must be responsible decisions. They cannot be decisions under the influence of events that took place yesterday, the day before yesterday, without consulting all the North Atlantic Pact partners. We are a serious partner who spends more than 2% GDP on arms expenditure, and not only do we want to maintain this status, but we want to make the most appropriate decisions, which will actually be made by Poland, in NATO, the most appropriate ones. [[Applause]] Bravo! Another forum at which these consultations take place is the European Union Forum. Here, too, I am in contact with our partners from the European Union and their position is very similar, not to say: the same as the Polish position as regards the proper response that should take place with regard to the situation in the Middle East. What position is that? Therefore, by presenting these few sentences of the report to the High House in the context of the situation in the Middle East, I would like to assure you that, both yesterday during the debate in the Cabinet Council convened by the President, and this morning during my conversation with the President and for just over two hours at a meeting at the National Security Bureau, with the participation of the President, with the participation of the Ministers for National Defence and Home Affairs, with my participation - we still hold our hand on the pulse and I assure the High House that we will make the most appropriate decision in these of course difficult circumstances in the Middle East. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will now move on to a completely different subject, a subject related to a very important key law, which as a government We have submitted to the High House. This is a very good, very happy day for me - I think it is a very good day for all Members of this House - because we are fulfilling the commitment that came not only during the election campaign, but earlier, about a year ago, the 13th pension obligation for the pension package: 13th pension and [[Applause]] This is also an obligation to ensure the multidimensional security of the citizens of the Republic. Firstly, this is very good news, because it is an expression of solidarity, an expression of solidarity between generations and solidarity, which makes the fate of nearly 10 million pensioners and pensioners better, will be improved. The raise wasn't supposed to be too electric. This is a decisive change with regard to all actions of the governments of the Third Republic. We're making this change. [[Applause]] Bravo! Secondly, it is the fulfilment of commitments, and credibility and trust are the basis of democracy, the basis for good policy. And we, in doing so, want to confirm, at the same time, and confirm our credibility. And thirdly, this proposal is a proposal without precedent, because it not only concerns the entire Polish country, it can be defined so calmly, but it concerns people especially close to us, our parents, our grandmothers, our grandparents. Therefore, I will ask the High House to comply with the request of Law and Justice, the United Right, and to adopt this law on the thirteenth pension. [[Applause]] And Kaczynski before? But you also need a few sentences to introduce why it was only the government of law and justice that could afford to introduce the programme "Emeritura+". Unfortunately, for all the years of the Third Republic, pensioners lived mostly for poor pensions. I say: in most cases, because in the case of Security Service officers (Mounting in the Chamber), unfortunately in the case of communist government officers, these pensions were sometimes 6,000. Evil and bigger. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Disgraceful! We change it, restore the true, proper order of things, restore elementary justice. [[Applause]] Bravo! It is therefore worth recalling the increase in the minimum pension during the reign of our predecessors. The minimum pension for 8 years of the Civic Platform's rule increased by 23.1%. [[Touchdown, applause]] Counselor Tusk has reached out. How did you advise the Prime Minister? He's lying. That's how she was. It's true. Really, I'm reminding you, which is inflation. And how is that for five years of government, including 2020 law and justice? That's 25.8%. Did you hear anything about deflation? Ladies and gentlemen, for 5 years of rule of law and justice, the increase in minimum pension is higher than in 8 years of rule of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] Bravo. But let us remind you of what it was like in the time of the liberal left. Well, in the days of the liberal left, in 2001 and 2005, the minimum pension increased - attention - by 32 PLN for 4 years. Exactly 32 PLN and 32 gr. It's easy to remember. [[Touchdown, applause]] Ha, ha, ha. Oh... So what, gentlemen? Socialists. So a year or so, rounding about 8 zlotys, the minimum pension grew during the reign of the neoliberal left. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Congratulations, congratulations. Bravo, left! What was it like, ladies and gentlemen, in the time of the liberal left when it comes to the real increase in pensions? For 4 years, attention, for 4 years the minimum pensions of the liberal left, the SLD, have really fallen during the years 2001 to 2005. Shame! Shame! So much for the credibility of the heirs who are here today, in the courtroom. I'll send the Wizards, the data. Today we present to the High House a programme that we call more than thirteen pensions. This is the "Emerity+' programme. Why do I call it that? First of all, it's a thirteen that we guarantee every year. Unlike what one of the prominent activists, the candidates for the European Parliament of this party, the opposition, said, it is not a scrap, it is not an election sausage. It is a permanent supplement, a permanent 13th pension for all pensioners and pensioners. This is something that will provide a more worthy life for all pensioners. [[Applause]] Extra. The second programme from our broad project "Emerity+" is to increase pensions by reducing the PIT tax. This is the first such great reduction in PIT for 13 years, since the previous rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] Bravo! That's about 6%. , one percentage point, or about 6%. Thanks to this, pensioners will also have a raise of approx. 240 PLN in the average year. This is another financial boost for pensioners too. Inflation - this is a real impulse. The third point of our programme is the quota value of at least PLN 70. 70 zł plus, valorization for those who have higher pensions, of course according to the Act, this is also an expense of about 9 billion zł. All this spending is a big, extra boost for these... You live on propaganda, nothing more. ...who built our present: for pensioners, for seniors who owe us justice. We share with them the fruits of growth. [[Applause]] This program of ours is of course built with additional projects. That's 75+. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a free drug program for seniors over 75 years of age. There are 1700 thousand seniors in Poland. About a million of them are using this program. This is on average - among those who use it - five packages of free medications per month, an additional PLN 350 per year, which we pass on to pensioners also under the broadly understood programme "Emeritura+'. These are also senior homes, for which we spend nearly three times as much money as our predecessors. Three times as much money as our predecessors. This is the true measure of interest in the fate of seniors, the fate of pensioners. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's retirees, seniors, pensioners are often people who were born during World War II, the cruelest times, after World War II, in the Stalinist years, in the years of the communist regime. They didn't build the Polish People's Republic, not the communist state. They were building Poland. They took care of Poland. We're grateful for that today. [[Applause]] It is thanks to their great efforts that we can enjoy unprecedented growth thanks to their hard work today. They contributed to it. Thus we, the Law and Justice, the United Right, understand solidarity between generations. That's how we understand sharing the fruits of growth that we're working out, which I'm about to talk about. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The projects referred to in recent meetings are also projects for people with disabilities. Here, in the wake of the misunderstandings, or perhaps the conscious misrepresentation of the statements of a few weeks ago, which fell from this speaker on the part of the opposition, I would like to make a few very clear points, based on simple figures of budget. Time, time! Because, as a result of a huge change in policies towards people with disabilities, we spend significantly more money helping these weakest members of our society. But what are you talking about? The Middle East. To base this on real numbers: at the time of the Civic Platform's rule, it was 15.5 billion. Comparing apples with apples: in 2020 it will be PLN 27.5 billion, or PLN 12 billion more. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few more years and for several years the rule of law and justice, the United Right, we will spend so much on people with disabilities, such funds as the Third Republic has earned for 25 years. [[Applause]] This is the measure of our care for people with disabilities. Do you want specific examples? Care provision raised from 1200 PLN to 1830 PLN. Rules of procedure... Social pension raised from PLN 740 to PLN 1200 in 2020, i.e. by more than 60% over 5 years. [[Applause]] And I'm not talking about the fact that in the last year we have implemented a groundbreaking 500+ program, a supplement of 500 PLN for people with disabilities who are unable to function on their own. [[Applause]] Criterion, criterion. This was not at all the case with the Citizen Platform and PSL governments. This is the measure of how we treat solidarity, social justice, the measure of our economic efficiency and our tax effectiveness. Yes, High Izbo, this is the measure Also our tax efficiency, because you can ask at this point... Time's up. And that's where I'm going on the third topic. I only mentioned a few completely separate points that I would like to raise during my speech. Are we gonna have time added? It's a balanced budget thing. Lie! This is something that was a great dream of all mainstream economists and the dream of the governments of the Third Republic. That's a lie. You'd be ashamed. It is my great pleasure to present to the High House a balanced budget. [[Applause]] Bravo! May I? Yes, you can. It's worth asking... Is there such a thing as regulations? It is also worth asking how this is possible, since we spend - and here attention - on the thirteenth pension about 12 billion PLN gross... This isn't a pension. ...to value amounts and standard values - approx. PLN 9 billion. That's 21 billion. In addition, in the budget of the FUS and in the state budget, we spend about PLN 4.5/5 billion on additional support for people with disabilities. That's 26 billion zlotys. These extra expenses, High Izbo, are possible thanks to the tax sealing program... Disgraceful! ...thanks to the excellent sealing of VAT and CIT. Minister of Finance with Banas... This is a great success for the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] Bravo! Banasia. I would like to congratulate you all very much... Banasi. ... The High House, especially the Law and Justice, the United Right... I'm gonna... ...but also the Ministry of Finance, the National Tax Administration, which you have been trying to reduce morale for several months. Banasi. Banasi. Dear Employees of the National Tax Administration! The future of the state budget is in your hands. You're doing a great job. Thank you all. [[Applause]] Bravo! Time's up. This unprecedented budget is a secure budget, because for us, ladies and gentlemen, security, financial security, internal security and external security go hand in hand. He left the courtroom... Order there! Social security, social peace must also be based on solidarity principles. These are the economic principles that we implement, which we implement. In the case of this budget, or actually previous budgets, also, as you know perfectly well, about 70-75% revenue comes from three main sources: VAT, CIT, PIT. As for your opposition to the vote, how falsified the votes concerning tax increases, it is worth asking, in which, High Izbo, from these three main tax sources of the budget there were any increases. VAT. PIT - unprecedented reduction, from 18% to 17%, increasing revenue costs; [[Applause]] PIT tax for young people, up to 26 years old, reduced to zero - therefore among others. We stopped the emigration of young people from Poland... That's not true. ...CIT tax for small and medium-sized companies reduced from 19 to 9% [[Applause]] so that Polish companies can grow as much as possible here in Poland. Bravo! Finally, VAT through our actions on the matrices of this tax is also reduced in very many positions. This is the real measure of government budget management and the main tax positions of the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Bravo! High Izbo! It's a duty, you know, to say that a moral state is to take care of... It's not to lie. You have nothing to do with morality. ...on older generations (Gwar in the hall, bell), care for the weaker, care for seniors, care for people with disabilities. We've developed economic growth, which is higher... The Poles worked out, not you. We Poles have worked out. ...from average growth in the European Union and in the euro area around three times. [[Applause]] It's also a measure... Five million. ...the effectiveness of our economic policy. This is a question of the quality of economic governance... What about the wife's property statement? ... fiscal policy, regulatory policy. This is a question of maintaining macroeconomic stability, which today is praised by the European Commission. [[Applause]] And how did your wife work that out? Did it belong? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, it is with great pleasure that I present these two... The claim of property is yours. ...great projects that crown the first four years of the rule of law and justice, the United Right. I present them to show that the high quality of economic governance, the recolonization of... Banana! ...tax seals, high economic growth in the third quarter, given by the European Commission, from quarter to quarter of 1,3%, highest in the European Union... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...they remain in correlation, in direct relation to our social policy, with our credibility, because we want and we want those who care about our past, who care about our education, who care about Poland in the most difficult communist times, who built Poland, sometimes against the Communists, against the liberal left, against the left, today also benefit from the fruits of growth. And that's why we are presenting today a budget that contains elements that provide a better life for seniors. And as long as the Government of Law and Justice enjoys social trust - I want to guarantee this to my fellow countrymen - there will be a 13th pension, there will be an "Emerity+' programme, there will be [[Applause]] High economic growth, one of the highest... And the apartments will be there. Electricity price increases. It's gonna be okay. ...in the European Union, because we are prepared and for more difficult times, which you have known for several years. And you call for slowing down - here I look at the opposition - already for some time your economists, you can say a little joke, they pray for this slowing down. The slowdown has already come and we still have the highest or highest economic growth among OECD countries and the European Union. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Skalds sang that we were running out of years in the spring. I would like our seniors, our pensioners, to feel happier in such a symbolic way in the spring with this project of Law and Justice, as if they had lost their years. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Especially when they go shopping, they're happier. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Before we begin the discussion - thank you, Prime Minister, for speaking - Mr Kosiniak-Kamish with a formal proposal. You're welcome. One minute, sir. I'll withdraw from the pension increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! We thank you for this speech, the first part of it, but for it to make sense, it must be followed by a debate. Dialogue is supposed to be a dialogue, not a monologue of the power camp. [[Applause]] Bravo! I'm glad you're consulting with your allies, but start talking to your opposition in the country, with your countrymen. Talk to us. We want cooperation, we want a common position, we want the security of Polish soldiers in Iraq, we want the safety of Poles and Poles - here in Poland, but start talking. [[Applause]] Back the government up. Support the government's action. You can't shut up in your bubble, you can't shut up in your environment. You're gonna go to the National Security Bureau and you're gonna talk to the same group as yesterday. What will result from this? Listen to us, we do not want to act against you, we want to act in the interest of the security of Poland. Then back the government up. The President is not fulfilling his duties, he does not want to use the constitution which gives him the right to convene a National Security Council, so be the head of a real political camp that wants to talk to Poles. [[Applause]] I ask for this in the name of security (the bell) of Poles and Poles, Polish soldiers in Iraq. [[Applause]] Back the government up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u22	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hennig-Kloska with a formal proposal. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to file a formal request for a recess in accordance with the article. 184. I'd like your marshal to restore the Prime Minister to order... Hey, hey, hey. ...and she said that the speaker wasn't used to lie to the citizens in a perverse way, misleading them. That's embarrassing. That's embarrassing. Prime Minister, you know very well that there is no sustainable budget for 2020. Only what you did... Madam, Madam, I am sorry, Mrs... ...you pushed the deficit into the funds. Some of the MPs are hitting the desks. Madam, Madam, listen to me. Madame, I am so sorry. There'll be club appearances in a minute. This is not a formal conclusion. This is a formal conclusion! You're welcome... It's in accordance with the rules. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, you weren't involved in the discussion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The Prime Minister has every right to speak. You're talking nonsense. You will be able to perform, Member. Okay? Does the Prime Minister have a right to lie? Time's up. I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this speaker is not used to mislead citizens. There is no sustainable budget. [[Some Members are hitting the desks, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u24	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. We come, I remind you, to the discussion on the item of order: First reading of the government draft law on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners, print No 118. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the first vote. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the project is really important, I ask you to silence the conversations, possibly to go to the clowns. Okay? I would very much like to ask you to take the floor in your club speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on additional annual financial benefits for pensioners and pensioners contained in Seym printing 118. High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice fully implements the electoral promises made in the 2015 and 2019 electoral campaigns. We promised the Poles fair and fair governments, we promised that the fruits of economic growth would benefit all social groups. We have promised to take care of the state budget, to settle with the VAT mobs, and we have the results. Banana, Banana. The state budget increased by more than PLN 100 billion. Successfully, every year, as part of the emerging opportunities we take care of Poles, we take care of Polish families. Thanks to our policy, we have the best indicators in the European Union in terms of funding for family policies. It's a program. 500+, program 300+. We turned to young people, we exempted all employees from income tax by 26 years of age, we reduced the costs of income and income tax by 1%. At that time, which is behind us, we have pursued, and we will continue to strive to support seniors, pensioners and pensioners. In view of the fact that a large group of pensioners have very low benefits, we have tried to ensure that their purchasing power does not weaken over the three years. In 2016 we paid one-off allowances in the amount of PLN 50 to 400. In 2019 the lowest valorization was not less than 70 PLN. The annual valorization included all groups of pensioners and pensioners. The increase in the lowest pension by 2019 is 25% - We raised the lowest pension by a quarter. Other benefits for this social group were mentioned by the Prime Minister. This policy will continue. An additional pension for seniors complements this support. It was paid out for the first time in 2019 and thus becomes a permanent service paid annually. It will be paid in the amount of the lowest pension. The expected lowest pension for 1 March 2020 is PLN 1200. This supplementary pension is not a social benefit, as is the case with social assistance, where benefits depend on income per person in the family. This pension, this benefit, is a universal one, not a storm, therefore the basic principles of the social security system, the rules of the defined contribution. This is a solution against the background of other proposals, Members of the opposition, very solidarity, but also very justice. All those who benefit from the benefits of the Social Insurance Institution, other policyholders' funds, have introduced contributions to this scheme. Those who have made large contributions also have the right to an additional pension benefit. This solution will apply to pensions in general, uniform and agricultural systems, bridge benefits and pre-retirement benefits and war disability pensions. It is very important for low-benefit pensioners that the amount of the additional annual cash benefit will not affect the entitlement of applicants for social assistance, benefits, allowances, including housing allowances, or rehabilitation allowance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nor will we make deductions or executions out of it. I'm almost done, Marshal. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the Government's draft law on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners, contained in print No 118. I encourage all colleagues from the other parliamentary clubs to pass this bill over political divisions. Retirement, pensioners, our seniors deserve our permission. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u26	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to the High House Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2049 as many as 1/3 Poles will be retired. The number of employees will then be much lower than those who have not yet started and those who have already completed it. These are challenges that the government doesn't do anything about. You decide on ad hoc solutions to bring you very ad hoc electoral results. How is the responsible opposition, the Civic Coalition different from you? The fact that we, such as the 13th pension, are putting into the broader context of the reconstruction of the pension system. We say: Poles need an additional pension, but together with ensuring their safety, so that they feel that the payment of the basic pension is not at risk and that they are not sentenced to starvation benefits. You've reduced your retirement age, but without the so-called. airbags. In 30 years, a woman's pension can only be 25%. salary. And finally, what is the 13th pension? We wanted to write it down every year in the budget. You protested, you rejected our project. Why? Well, because you're afraid, actually you know that this is the last, maybe the penultimate year of paying 13s at your budget capacity. How much is 13th pension worth today when electricity is more expensive, when all energy suppliers are given permission to increase prices for individual consumers? I thought you said prices wouldn't go up. You know perfectly well that this year there will be record prices for poultry or pork. When American swine fever reached central Poland, your minister wanted to build a barrier on the border. This can also happen with these pensions as with American swine fever. African. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, you're doing populist politics, leaving the real issues of seniors behind. Imagine a senior who doesn't come out of a house who doesn't have a family and is independent. You're only trying to please him with his 13th pension? We have left you a draft law on helping people who are independent, so that to those who are most in need, we can direct a welfare check of up to 1,000. PLN per month. You rejected the project, you actually threw it in the trash right away. Not much, there was to be a new system of case law. Even there were specific dates when this system was supposed to see the light of day. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki appointed the end of June 2018 as the final date. Unfortunately, we have not been informed at what stage is this new system of case law and help for those who are really very needy, incredibly independent. And in the end, I think what hurts most is your wickedness. Unfortunately, I'm not afraid to use that word. How could you use the Solidarity Fund to support people with disabilities, actually take money, indebt this fund, and pay 13 out of this fund? After all, this is actually a violation of the spending rule. There's no money in this fund. The proceeds to this fund are less than PLN 4 billion, and its costs at the end of the year will be over PLN 20 billion. [[Applause]] This is actually a deficit that you have prepared for all Poles. You don't have money to pay 13 pensions. You're just borrowing this money from the Demographic Reserve Fund. This will be paid by future generations of Poles, children and grandchildren of today's seniors. It's sad, but you can't think about the pension system strategically. Eight years. You're not doing anything to make the benefits actually higher. You don't do anything to stop the crazy price. You don't help independent seniors, and you take the disabled to fulfill your election promises. This is unfortunately your 13th pension project in the pill. Of course, we will support this project because it is also part of our big project of the whole pension reform and great support for seniors, but this is only part of it. I'm sorry that this is the only part of you that can afford. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's too bad. Don't back it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u28	Thank you, Member. But we don't raise the retirement age. Mr Maciej Kopiec, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Redistribution is an economic term, not a subject of political marketing. A well-functioning state can redistribute money that is hard-earned by citizens and citizens, providing a decent life for pensioners and pensioners. Each solution must be analysed from the point of view of effectiveness and real improvement of quality of life, not just your election result, expensive Law and Justice. You create only an illusion of the welfare state, whose horizon is the period from election to election, and the real situation of Polish pensions is according to the Social Insurance Institution an equal slope. The minimum pension in Poland this year will be PLN 1200 gross, after a raise o, bagatela, 70 PLN compared to last year, or PLN 1026 per hand. In the meantime, the minimum social income for a single-person pensioner was PLN 1197 in 2019, i.e. more than PLN 150 more. Minimum pensioners therefore live below the poverty line. This is how the Polish state repays to people who worked hard to make sure that there was any money in the budget, also almost PLN 2 billion transferred to the TVP activities and your news and provocators: Martyniuk and Kurski. If you really wanted to help the most needy seniors, you'd listen to the idea of the Left with a minimum pension at a level that would allow people not to choose between drugs and food. In what specific way, Prime Minister, ministers, the burning social problem is the 13th pension, or 2.80 PLN a day, or half a cube of butter? Is that how much you value seniors? Does that allow them not to die in line to see a doctor? That's what you gave... Doesn't he let you die in line to see a doctor? Helps find care in a social worker's home? Helps buy all the prescriptions? It's not helping. This is PLN 2,80, this is half a lump of butter, ladies and gentlemen. Does it allow a DPS nurse not to get a gymnasium like any other nurse, just because she's employed by a local government and not an NFZ? No. Does 2,80 zlotys allow you to live more pleasantly? Self-government, not government. You know what your definition of social justice is? According to the Ministry of National Defence, Bishop Leszek Głodź can charge about 17 thousand. zł pension benefits and he will also get 13 pensions. [[Applause]] I suspect he'll fill this retirement with a Mass Cup. You're overreacting a little bit. The Left will vote in favour of this law not because it agrees with the Law and Justice policy. We will vote to vote because we know how much drugs cost, how much fuel costs, how much it costs to live seniors and seniors at galloping inflation and how prices are rising during your governments. How do prices go up? Normal. Every dollar can save the lives of seniors and seniors in the current situation. The aim of the Left is to reform the whole pension system, including the introduction. guaranteed minimum pension, fair pensions for men and women combined with real access to medical care and daily care assistants and medicines that anyone in need can easily buy. Finally, the Left will guarantee a real state serving citizens and citizens, not election results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Chasing on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 regarding the governmental draft law on one-off pension provision. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about a group that's really enlarged the poverty group. As a standard, the government uses information that it has eradicated poverty, but according to all figures in 2017, the poverty rate was 4.3%, in 2018 - 5.3% And this growing group are just pensioners and pensioners. As you can see, their lives are falling. Nothing says it's gonna get better. Of course this benefit, this 13th pension is a benefit that we will support, because even 2.80 PLN to the budget for such a pensioner is always something. But let's make a deal: a pensioner who doesn't even have a social minimum can't wait for a year to buy himself a medicine or an ankle of butter, he should have this benefit higher every month, because he just needs a life. Therefore, we think that a better project is the one concerning the exemption of pensions from the tax, which would give every pensioner 240 to 300 PLN... Especially the rich ones. No, here too, Commissioner, the rich and the poor will get so that you do not make such a distinction, so it is not only possible to consider it in such categories. It is a civic project, supported by all senior and consulted environments, but also supported by 200,000. The people who signed it, so a little respect for this project, really. What is the situation? It's gonna get even worse, because the data you gave to the president of the ZUS, but also confirmed by Minister Marczuk, are saying that we are currently getting 53%... pension, which is right now... As far as the average is concerned, we get 53.8%. the lowest wage. In 2045 we will receive only 32% and in 2060 - 24%. Minister Marczuk has told the truth. The current 30-year-old who will be in this system will unfortunately receive only one quarter of what he now earns. So statistically, he's just going to live in poverty, and he's not really going to enter into what was presented by the Prime Minister into the fact that you're ensuring stability, predictability, building trust, or that pensioners can feel safe. They can't feel safe because all the indicators point to it. The benefit is one-off, will not be paid each year. There's no serious discussion. And I'm not settling for eight years or eight years. Ladies and gentlemen! 30 years of transformation. There is no serious discussion about what retirement looks like. Every year we adopt several laws that interfere with this system, but are accepted only on an ad hoc basis. We've already had one-off supplements, we've got valorization, which is bad, because percentage valorization is also harmful. We don't really talk and discuss the situation of future pensioners. I am of this generation, who have heard several times about different concepts and forms, and I am actually convinced that this pension will practically not be able to afford a decent life. The Prime Minister says he'll be fine in the future. It will only be good for people like him who have benefited from some form of income above a certain level, so they can put off their own retirement and have any sense of stability. On the other hand, people who make little money can certainly not feel safe. The money for this 13th pension is borrowed. Money is also taken and borrowed from the Demographic Reserve Fund. The Demographic Reserve Fund is another body that was created to make us feel safe when this replacement isn't there. There is no stability in this system and there is no serious discussion. I have no claim to the Law and Justice for this witness or for any other ad hoc witness. I resent the fact that for four years - now they received another chance and the next four years - they had full power and full trust. They received this so that future generations would leave the state repaired. The reformed state is reforms: reform of the system of ruling, reform of the insurance system, because we know that future pensions are affected by GDP, inflation, demographic structure. So there is no stability and this discussion has not begun. No reform has been carried out. A dozen or so laws have been adopted, which do not give stability and security to pensioners or young generations at all. So it's really about attention. Ladies and gentlemen! The next four years have passed and there is still no discussion of the real reform of any area. These are all ad hoc solutions that will not affect the fact that in a few dozen years (the bell) we will have any pensions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u32	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Dziambor, on behalf of the Female Confederation Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a shame we're here at an almost empty room. I know that all Members have split up for their committee meetings, but what I am going to say here is that I will probably have to repeat it in a full room. I think we should play open cards. The 13th pension you are voting on today will be paid around the presidential election because you need to remind the electorate who is their benefactor the most cynical way the government can do it. For this retirement you have borrowed - as children call each other the so-called. eternal failure - money from the disability fund. And here it has already been calculated how this money will never be returned to this fund. This is, of course, unpleasant. You're telling the pensioners that you're the reason they got the 13th. And one of the Members said that this gives less than 3 PLN... In the meantime, you're not saying how much taxation is on those pensions you're so eager to give away as 13 now. You don't tell the pensioners how much they actually pay these taxes. In fact, if you wanted to help pensioners, we in this House would be talking about giving up the taxation of pensioners. Similarly, if you wanted to help the least earners, in this House, we would have a discussion about the Confederacy project about a tax-free amount of 12 times the lowest national one. Unfortunately, there is no such serious discussion. There's a discussion about a 13th pension, which is typically a political play. The president of the Social Security Office was sent by you to television some time ago to scare Poles and tell them that the replacement of their pensions will soon amount to the poor 25%. So it's not gonna be like retirement isn't gonna be enough for a decent life. Retirement will not be enough for any survival. And in fact, you begin to prepare Poles, only that without any responsibility. At this point, you're doing everything you can to maintain your support posts, maintain your power. Unfortunately, pensioners and pensioners... The Lady of Law and Justice said that pensioners and pensioners deserve permission on this subject. On the other hand, we believe that they absolutely do not deserve such manipulations. That is why I will recommend to my colleagues in the Confederation that they abstain in this case. Horrible. I hope that we will come to a serious discussion in this House about the real changes to be made by pensioners, which are supposed to give real money to pensioners, and not those lousy 1,200 gross ones, i.e. on average less than 3 PLN... In fact, I hope that Law and Justice will at some point look into the eyes and really want to help their chiefly concrete electorate. Because I know perfectly well - and we all know that - that's what you're after. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. 17 MPs signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u35	High Izbo! The introduction of an additional benefit for pensioners and pensioners is another opportunity for the government to fund election bribes. It's obvious. It's outrageous. It's outrageous. This is another opportunity to practice the propaganda of success. Insolent, naked propaganda of success. And what is the truth about pensions of Poles? The pension value compared to the last salary received is now 54% In the 30s, 40s are 30s,25%. Lousy. ZUS liabilities exceeded the value of PLN 3 trillion - five Polish budgets. Only a demographic reflection can save the day. In the meantime, what? The 500+ programme, as a demographic, is a total failure. You're hiding your head in the sand. As far as the demographic security of Poles is concerned, you are implementing the programme "I+..." imposibility and impotence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u36	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 13th pension in this issue, which the government is proposing, is really just compensation for the increase and the cost. Ladies and gentlemen! On the building in Warsaw at ul. Silver 16 is such an advertising company PGE: We have energy to change. Yes, these changes will be felt by Polish pensioners. The President of the Energy Regulatory Office has just announced that he has allowed PGE Trading to raise its electricity prices by 19.5% in 2020. This raise, High Izbo, will touch pensioners and pensioners. What is this 13th pension? It's like I said, compensation for the raises and the costs. This pension also goes to different people, also to those who have very high income, to the people on the list "Forbes." And another thing - an increase in extreme poverty in our country. We have a record (Bingle) extreme poverty. In 2019, 5.4%. This is also a situation which shows how difficult the situation of Polish pensioners is. This program doesn't solve their cases. Of course, we will support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u38	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister, in his lying speech, said that the measures include: The 13th pension will come from tax sealing. Nothing more wrong. The funds will come from the Demographic Reserve Fund, have been collected for the last 20 years, collected PLN 45 billion. This money will be paid in just four years as compensation for this thirteenth pensioner's salary. I wonder why the Prime Minister has such a lying narrative. It must be fair to say that there is no revenue in this Solidarity Fund that will secure the funds for the years to come. So here's the question: What will happen after 2022? Where will you find the funds that will be introduced into the budget to continue to fund the Solidarity Fund so that pensioners do not have a perspective of 3 and 4 years, but have a perspective of several decades ahead? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u41	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Minister, You will admit that the extra cash benefit for pensioners and pensioners is financed by loans. The Demographic Reserve Fund will only have enough money by 2022. What are you gonna do if you run out of reserves? Where will you get the money to finance this benefit later? What do you say to the retirees and the rencistoms? Seniors need constant and predictable support to make enough money for their lives, for drug fees, and your actions are only temporary. The responsible government is looking for system solutions, and the irresponsible act ad hoc. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Much has already been said in this Chamber, but once again it must be made clear that what is given to these people is mere charity. These people have been working for this retirement their whole lives and should be in this country, in a country that says it's a social country, making money so that they can afford vacations, medications, gifts for grandchildren, everything. The lowest pension in this country should be the lowest wage. Then it'll be normal. Perhaps it should be made clear to the public that in 2015 the lowest pension was almost 70% net minimum wage and in 2020 the lowest pension will be less than 55% net minimum wage. This demonstrates the worsening situation of millions of people living on pension benefits and the real reduction in their real purchasing power. [[Applause]] This can't be happening, ladies and gentlemen. Why don't you guys get to work and start really reforming these systems. Why don't you guys just lift the pension tax? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's stealing and stealing from people. That money has already been taxed once. You're still holding communist solutions for these pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir, but we are talking about our country, not this country. Why don't you fix the premiere like that? Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Liar, liar, liar. It's just that the Prime Minister of our country is just a liar... Madam President, I appeal to you to stand down. ...about the tragic life of people with disabilities in Poland. People with disabilities in Poland live for PLN 935 starving social pension. Plus, you still get a tax from the Social Security Office. They only receive 200 zlotys of care allowance. You have humiliated the weakest social group, giving 500 zlotys in the case of the criterion, because these people again appear before the committee and have to prove that this degree is significant, i.e. that they are independent, unable to exist independently. Don't lie to me. You tricked us so-called. The law of 520 zł, because so far none of the families in which people with disabilities are present, did not even receive, did not save one zloty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You give people with disabilities humiliation, arrogance and a shoe. [[Applause]] That's not the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u46	However, in the future, I call for another language to be used in the parliamentary debate. If someone's lying, they're a liar. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Retirists and pensioners are the least financially-endowed age group. It is also the largest group, because it has about 9 million people. Of course, this group needs financial support and great concern for the rulers. However, a system solution and responsible action are expected, and what you are now presenting is pure fiction. You give the impression that you're creating a system, you want to support seniors, and you're not really pointing at the sources of funding for the 13th pension. This is some kind of frame that's supposed to fool seniors, show them that something will be given them for a long time, and in fact, you don't actually have any money. All this is on loan and on loans. You don't take seniors seriously. If you took them seriously, you would have guaranteed the sources of funding for many years. In fact, it is a pure electoral sausage created only for the benefit of the presidential election campaign, which will be in the coming months. I don't agree with that. We say no. We want to take seniors seriously. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people need real, real support and real, real system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u48	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Retirement and rencistom, every dollar is needed. It is needed for medications, for increasing expenses related to the hire of premises and for many other things. This increase in prices is so high that, of course, it does not correspond to the valorisation of pension benefits. On this occasion, I would like to ask you a very important question: Will the 13th pension become a permanent part of pension benefits? Since when? Secondly, there was also an announcement regarding the 14th pension in 2021. What about this case? Is it gonna be a one-time thing or is it gonna be permanent? The third point concerns the so-called. pensions below minimum pensions. In 2019 this covered 280 000. persons, in 2020 - over 320 grand. persons. Does the government envisage a change in the calculation of non-contributory periods (Bells) that are worked under contract so that they can acquire minimum benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u50	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have just heard Prime Minister Morawiecki's speech here. In fact, we have heard of the great propaganda performed by the PiS, how wonderful it is for pensioners to live. I wanted to ask: So where does the increase in extreme poverty come from? In 2017 - 4,3, in 2018 - 5,4. Nearly 20% of the increase in extreme poverty, which, above all, Minister, concerns pensioners. It is time for systemic solutions, and this is crucial, not to such ad hoc actions, dictated by an election campaign. Because what's the truth? The rise in energy prices. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin lied, saying that energy prices would not increase. What's the truth? Energy prices are rising: to a maximum of 19,5% ,Enea - 11. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are specific expenditures that primarily concern pensioners. That's the truth about your actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u52	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u53	The information presented by your Prime Minister should be reliable. And there's no such thing as integrity. Your Marshal, you're reprimanding us. It's a pity that Marshal Witek didn't reprimand the Prime Minister like he said he wasn't. As we value pension benefits, when there was inflation, the increase in pension benefits was... 104% was valorisation and deflation was 1%. When was that? That wasn't the situation. So the purchasing power of this money was greater. You took the money from the Demographic Reserve Fund for the second time. You're looting Poles. That's why I'm asking the Minister to deliver us the loan agreement. What will this loan agreement be completed in difficult times? Because this is the second time you've reached that money. It has been pointed out that the state has treated people with disabilities very badly, and don't talk about the 13th pension, because it's just an allowance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All retired people are asking: Don't tell me this is a 13th pension. It's charity, and it's an addition - when electricity costs, medications, when there's queues for doctors. [[Applause]] She better not be, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u54	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not long ago, Mr. Bartosz Marczuk told us: "Passes are on? Whoever has weak nerves, don't read about the pension estimates that the Social Security Office has given him. We have strong nerves, I understand. I'm 34, I'm retiring in 30 years. Minister, what is the respect for my generation, what will the pension rate be? How many people will work so that these pensions can be paid to current 30-year-olds? Minister, do you know the state of geriatrics in Poland? Seniors have nowhere to treat themselves. There are 430 geriatrics, 900 beds on geriatric wards, that means 100,000. There are one and a half people. Please explain to us... That's not the bill. ...how you will systematically solve seniors' problems. Because the money you're spending on treatment isn't gonna help. Seniors are in debt for 7 or 8 billion PLN (The Bell) because they spend money on medicines, treatment and private rehabilitation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u56	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With a light hand you spend over PLN 23 million on the Polish project in America, almost PLN 10 million for two cruises... Scandal! ...a spot for PLN 2.5 million, PLN 12 million for meetings with famous people through the national foundation and pretending to be all right. For the regime television almost PLN 2 million this year... Two billion. ...and for retired people to shed tears - a 13th pension and small additional increases. Aren't you guys shopping? Can't you see the price increases? It'll cost you energy and everything in general. In fact, you want to buy pensioners before the election - and that is your main goal, not support for pensioners - which is worse by taking money from the Solidarity Fund to people with disabilities. It's disgusting, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question: When will the retirees be exempt from tax? Retired people paid that tax a long time ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u58	Thank you. Mr Romuald Aichler, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My wife had an ischaemic stroke five years ago, and she's still in a wheelchair. I know what it means: rehabilitation, I know what it means: caring for a disabled person, I know what it means: budget spending and that fund that you took from her, too. Imagine, your help is that for five years only after the stroke could she use the NFZ and go to the hospital - when it comes to the rest, it's no help. Tonight, taking resources from those people who can't handle their lives... We're not taking anything. ...and not offering e.g. the abolition of the tax although the group of people who are disabled, who can't handle themselves, is simply barbaric, another word cannot be used here. Minister, do you know how much rehabilitation costs? I don't know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I pay $6,000 every month. Evil for rehabilitation. I can afford it, and so can my wife, because we've worked for 50 years, she's 40 years old, and we have high pensions. But I say what I say, on behalf of those who can't afford, who have 800 zlotys each. For God's sake, do something to make these people better. They were building Poland, which is why these pensions are as big today as they were just mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u60	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, as a general rule, I think that there is no doubt that seniors are one of those social groups that require action to improve their pensions, because they really are in relation to the workload, contributions, etc. They're pretty low. The problem is finding a good solution. I myself have doubts that such a grace of yours in the form of 13 pensions is a good solution. I'd prefer that every month every pensioner gets a solid raise so that it's the whole basis for his retirement, because it's related to different areas, I'd say. On the other hand, I have a question about financing, because the problem is, Minister, that what Prime Minister Morawiecki said was a lie. You finance this, among others. from the Demographic Reserve Fund (the bell), i.e. you pay the funds that were supposed to allow pension insurance, among others. For my generation, for 40-year-olds, for 30-year-olds. Minister, first of all, are you not ashamed that you are stealing de facto our financial resources, and secondly, how do you intend to ensure the payment of pensions for our generation of thirty-forty-year-olds? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u62	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Retirement and pensions in Poland should be unconditionally higher. The Left supports and will always support all actions aimed at ensuring a decent life for pensioners and pensioners. Unfortunately, what the Government of Law and Justice is proposing is far from sufficient. Poverty among pensioners and pensioners is enormous and it seems that the government is turning a blind eye to these sad things. The one-off payment that we are dealing with for this project is not systemic but ad hoc. The left presented a project in which we ask for a minimum pension of PLN 1600. I ask the Minister, the Prime Minister, to answer the question of when the government will start working on making 1600 zlotys a month allow pensioners to live a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] About four years from now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u64	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Well, you can say in this debate that the devil is dressed in an ornament and calls Mass. During 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL... Four years of yours. ...we haven't heard about the big pension reform project, the abolition of income tax. I'm asking why. I think the answer to the question of why this is not a good solution is also known in the Ministry of Finance. I'll raise two points. First of all, those who have very high pensions would benefit much more from it and those who have the lowest pensions would benefit very little. Very unfair solution. Your second lie. The Zusov contributions shall be written off from income under PIT. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you at this point have the right to say that this is a double-taxed amount? I am asking the Minister in particular to refer to the issue of double taxation, because this is an issue that is very convincing people to your wrong idea that it is such a simple and good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u66	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Yes, seniors, retireds, pensioners are a social group that requires constant support and good senior policy. And this is the policy that the Law and Justice Government has been running since 2015 when Law and Justice won the elections. It is difficult not to address the speeches of the Civic Platform and those of the country who spoke about support, about building a pension system. Your idea of building a pension system was to raise the retirement age. You wanted seniors to work till death no matter what profession they did. The law and justice of the thirteenth pension... The 13th pension was last year, this year we are implementing our electoral programme, this program that we have agreed to with Poles. My question, Minister: Will the 13th pension and the 14th pension be implemented in the following years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fourteen? Thirteen o'clock pay off.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr... Fourteenth, too. You are very welcome, Mr Honourable. We are discussing with the speaker, not in the benches. That concludes the questions. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Stanisław Szwed, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, submitted a request to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a difficulty in answering these questions. When you listen to most of your comments, it would be such a simple solution if you voted against this law. If everything's wrong, it's alms, stealing... Right. ...and at the end there's a declaration of all the clubs, almost all the clubs, that they're going to support the solution, that something's wrong. A few such detailed comments, although actually a specific question was one, Mr Tomaszewski. I'm gonna answer that, and that's also the answer to everyone who's accusing that it's an election sausage. The additional annual pension benefit we accept, we introduce permanently in the bill and it will function for the following years, not as it was with our first solution, that it is a one-off benefit, because that was the title of the law. Additional annual cash benefit for pensioners, i.e. so-called. The 13th pension will be permanent, regardless of the electoral calendars that will be ahead of us, this benefit will be paid. This year we predict that this will be paid out of the Solidarity Fund on 1 April. Once again, information on the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund was created under the rule of law and justice, and we created it to support both the independent, disabled and, after the amendment of the law, pensioners and pensioners. The Solidarity Fund can be financed from the state budget and this is a guarantee of the payment of the Solidarity Fund benefits also for the following years, i.e. the budget is a guarantor. The same is true for the Social Insurance Institution. In the last 3 years the income of the Social Insurance Institution has increased by almost PLN 45 billion. The Social Security Office is the safest institution of the State in terms of payment of benefits and the guarantee of payment of benefits is the state budget, i.e. as far as all we are talking about, taxes, all the revenue of the state budget, it is the guarantee of pension payments, pension benefits and there is no risk of payment of benefits. This is an additional benefit, which today, if we talk to pensioners, is very well received by them. We will also consider the issue of valorisation at this session of the Sejm. We anticipate that, by changing the rules on value-added to an amount-percent, these lower pensions will increase by at least PLN 70 and will cover more than 62% pensioners. If we only applied percentage valorization, this group 62% Retirement pensioners would lose the opportunity to receive 70 PLN gross. Let me remind you that the valorization will be at the level of 1200 zł, which is another 100 zł increase in the lowest pension, which today actually costs less than 214 thousand. persons. So if we're talking about an entire group of over 8 million pensioners and pensioners, that's a small percentage of people who take this lowest pension. There was a question about those who didn't have an internship. They will also receive an additional pension. The work on the 14th pension is ongoing, and there will be a government project in this area. Of course, there were questions about the future. Today we have a good instrument in the Social Insurance Institution, which is pension advisors. They will help today when it comes to deciding to retire, in the case of those who have a shorter period to retire, during which period to retire. Pension advisors will show this path, what is the cost-effectiveness of retirement at a given age, they can also make a forecast for the future for those who are at a young age at the moment. This is another case. So that when it comes to tax reduction issues, the Prime Minister clearly said that we have lowered the PIT tax, and that he also applies to pensioners, they are not double-taxed, because earlier, many years ago, this has been bruttized and now what we are collecting is like this difference. The reduction of the tax to 17%, by 1%, caused pensioners to pay a lower tax. The increase in the tax-free amount is also linked to the objective which applies to those with the lowest benefits, because the increase in the tax-free amount causes those with lower pensions not to pay that tax. There is a question of poverty here. The explanation is simple. Income increases in Poland. In the last three years, disposable income in our society has increased by 10%. Because of this, among other things, that our income has increased by 10%, the rates of extreme poverty have increased slightly, but that does not mean that we are growing poverty. On the contrary, all other studies show that it is much better in this area. This is a question related to this additional pension, but also the issue of valorisation and other benefits which are spent on people who are of retirement age, even if this is a benefit of 500 PLN for independent persons. These are the actions we're taking. Let me repeat: this is an additional annual cash benefit. It's going to be 9800,000. eligible, i.e. pensioners, those who receive compensation benefits, pre-retirement benefits, those who are in the CRUs, who are in the CRUs, who are in the CSO, who are in the uniform services, all of them will be affected, also those who do not have a paid retirement pension. The total cost we will bear as a country for the payment of these benefits is PLN 11 700 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law on additional annual payments to pensioners in print No 118 to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. The Marshal of the Sejm also proposes that the Sejm should be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) The three Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined on 9 January. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office (Print No 89). I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law sets out issues related to the status and financial and economic structure of the school. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is a specific and typical creation - on the one hand, a state legal person and, on the other hand, an entity to which property and finance legislation on public universities applies accordingly. This reference, which is currently in operation, is very general and insufficient. To some extent, there is a school in such legal duality. Corrections are therefore needed in order to eliminate this twine. As regards issues relating to its functioning, it must be pointed out that as regards the issue of these doubts and discrepancies, this situation is further aggravated, and this raises the issue of the introduction of the new Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science. Article 4 of the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was correlated with the previous Act which was derogated. The present Act does not contain a chapter of "Funds and Finances' which would concern the financial economy. It has been introduced in the new law under Section XII: Finance of the higher education and science system and the financial economy of universities. And this continues to cause this multitude of interpretations, interpretation differences, which is very unfavorable. First of all, it focuses, focuses, focuses on three issues. The question is whether and to what extent Section XII should be applied to the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and whether those regulations which are contained in other normative acts should be applied per analogy to the school. There is no need here to present in extenso a draft law, but what is crucial is the question of determining the form and nature of legal financing of the basic activity. It is accepted in the draft law that funding is carried out through an entity grant. The Act also introduces financial guarantees for the school by introducing an annual valorisation clause. Given that the school education process is extended over time, it would also seem appropriate to leave unused appropriations for future periods this year, provided that they can only be used for the purposes of carrying out the tasks for which they have been allocated. In this respect, the status quo is maintained. Previously, in the previous legal state, grants were also non-refundable. It was regulated by Art. Paragraph 98. The 3th Law on Higher Education, which, as I have already pointed out, has been repealed here. With the current legal situation, these measures should be returned by the end of January, which is why a legislative response and an appropriate solution are needed in this respect. As far as the reasons for such an urgent need are concerned, the point is that these grants should actually be reimbursed by the end of January. And here, as I said before, there's this legal twine that makes it necessary to neutralize the complications that have occurred. This includes, for example, issues related to the financial statements of the KSSIP. They are drawn up by March, so there would be no correlation, no compatibility here. On the other hand, due to practical solutions... In particular, evaluations of practices are presented, which often go beyond the financial year, and in this respect there would be a problem. That is why these issues should continue to be regulated in such a way that they can be transferred, rolled over for the years to come. Of the important issues that are still mentioned in the draft law, it is really the introduction of the principles of the university's financial economy. A core fund is being introduced here. There are indicated factors that cause him to appreciate or depreciate. The revenue catalogue shall also be entered. The draft also provides for direct regulations referring to the provisions of other laws, e.g. to the law on value added tax, or the provisions on taxes and local charges for the exemption of university property, the school on real estate tax, except for those properties which are dedicated to commercial activities. In addition, regulations and limits are introduced as regards the possibility of regulation with regard to the components of the school's assets. Here is the limit to the amount of PLN 2 million, above the amount of PLN 2 million will be required the approval of the Minister of Justice. In addition, issues relating to the determination of the legal form and the finding that the performance of the duties of KSSiP instructors is an individual creative activity are also introduced, which makes it possible to benefit from 50% of the cost of obtaining revenue. There shall also be provision in Article. 54a, which relates to the rules for the calculation of write-downs for workers and former employees as regards the welfare fund. In conclusion, it must be pointed out that the proposed amendments generally do not have any financial implications for the state budget and are, in fact, to some extent sanctioning or legislative confirmation of the practice used so far by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and solve any serious interpretation problems. As regards issues relating to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, in anticipation of any questions, as well as the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, I will say that appropriate amendments will be prepared in this respect, so that there will be no doubt here that there will be a complete difference between those measures which are organised within the framework of the school's business activities and those which are obtained through the subjective grant. So here this issue has been resolved, there will be no need for the European Commission to notify this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u72	Thank you very much, sir. Before we enter into the discussion, I would like to warmly welcome the young people from the high school in Sępólno Krajński, who are listening to our discussions with the teachers and who are coming at the invitation of Mrs Ewa Kozanecka. [[Applause]] Welcome very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Club Law and Justice, the position will be presented by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is the only central institution responsible for initial and continuous training of judicial staff and prosecutors in the Republic of Poland. The stated function of the designated State legal person requires that its rules of operation be regulated in a clear manner preventing the emergence of interpretative doubts. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office have so far functioned in many respects on principles similar to those of public universities. In matters of property management and financing, the provisions of the Act currently in force refer to the proper application of the law on public universities. Referral to the proper application of another law can always raise interpretation doubts. In relation to this issue, they have increased at the time when the rules governing the functioning of public universities have been amended. The Law of 27 July 2005 on Higher Education was replaced by the new Law of 20 July 2018. The Law on Higher Education and Science. The new law differs from the system of rules and regulates a number of issues differently, often in a far different way from those of the legislator introducing an appeal to the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office on Higher Education. An important difference is the financing of the core activities of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Its activities are financed, in accordance with the position of the Ministry of Justice, by an entity grant. On the other hand, as a result of the change in the rules, the form of funding for the basic activities of public universities was changed from an individual grant to a subsidy. Art. 55a will remove doubts about the form of financing of the core activities of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, clearly indicating an entity grant constituting a budget expenditure in the part of the State budget, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. In addition, this provision is intended to guarantee the non-refundable nature of the entity grant and its annual value for money at least by an indicator of the price increase of consumer goods and services planned in the country's budget. This regulation will ensure the autonomy of the national school in the field of financial management. The principles of financing and management of property of the projecter decided to include directly in the Act, which is intended to add a new Chapter 5a: Finance and the Financial Economy of the National School, Art. 55a-55m. A reference to the application of public higher education legislation is also provided for in the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office only to the extent that it is not regulated by the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The project's creators have decided to establish unambiguously the level of the indicator on the obligation to employ persons with disabilities and the rules for making and write-downs to an occupational social benefit fund. The amendments presented are in the nature of sanctioning the existing rules of operation of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office or adapting them to the original intention of the legislator. This makes them fully justified, which implies the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u74	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Arkadiusz Myrch. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition, it is my pleasure to present the position of our club regarding the draft law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The reasons put forward by your representative are the need for legislative amendments to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office arising directly from the fact that for almost two years there has been a new Law on Higher Education and Science, which literally determines the application of the rules on the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office as the only educational unit in Poland involved in the training of prosecutors and judges, and about which interpretation doubts have been emerging for a long time: as to its status and its financing. And these interpretative doubts have increased since the entry into force of the new Law on Higher Education and Science, which is described in detail in the explanatory memorandum to the project. This is relevant in the context of the provisions on both property and financing, but also of the social benefit fund or, for example, prosaic issues such as financial reporting. In this respect, as the Civic Coalition Club, we absolutely see the need for legislative changes in this area. We are glad that this bill has been filed. On the other hand, as is apparent from the opinions presented, in particular by the UOKiK, there is a reasonable doubt that this change in funding will not result in the situation that we will face illegal public aid, which, of course, would require notification to the European Commission if these rules were to stand. Therefore, we take as a good coin the announcements of the applicant's representative that there are amendments in this respect that will resolve these doubts. This is to support directly from the budget of the State of an entity that carries on an economic activity, even if, in line with the intention of the projectors, this money will be spent on activities unrelated to the business activity of that entity. However, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which is justified in our assessment, still has doubts. Therefore, as a club, we stand in the position that we should proceed immediately on this project because of the deadlines for submitting financial statements. And, of course, we are waiting for the content of the amendments announced, which, in an absolutely final way, I hope, will resolve any doubts and there will be no situation that after the entry into force of the law we will have problems with its implementation due to the lack of notification to the European Commission. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition, I request that this bill be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u76	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club Lewis - Anna Maria Żukowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u77	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I will present my position on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left. We recognise that this project is absolutely necessary because what already works requires a single legal act to be sanctioned and tightened. On the other hand, we have doubts about a few things. One of them is once again testing this type of project as a matter of urgency, which we do not think is necessary, because this is what causes that later, even before presenting the Act to the High House, the projector himself announces that amendments will be needed. And the question is, couldn't this project be prepared once and properly? The Sejm Analysis Office also drew attention to these deficiencies, to this important issue concerning the procedure for notification to the European Commission, because this law may raise doubts as to whether it is not the granting of unlawful public aid to an entity which is not only engaged in economic activities, because not as the opinion itself points out, is the substance and element determining the recognition of that entity, i.e. in this case KSSiP, as an undertaking, but also the activity consisting in offering products or services on a given market. Even if we take out this provision, it's an article. 55d point 4 of the Act, which concerns revenues from economic activities, will remain with the rest, i.e. offering products and services on the market. In this respect, we believe that in this case, your Marshal of the Sejm should, as an authority which is called to do so, when it is a parliamentary project, submit this notification to the European Commission after all. We should not be afraid of consulting such laws with the European Commission. Here there is no need for the fears we have recently faced in another subject, that is, in the case of the muzzle law, when the Law and Justice were afraid to consult their laws with the European Commission. There's nothing wrong with that. On the other hand, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I will recommend this project. The Left Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of referring this law to further work on the committee to improve this bill, because it is, as I said, necessary, albeit at the moment poorly prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u78	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 was presented in writing. On the other hand, Mr Krystian Kamiński will present the position of the Confederation's Circle of Posel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law refers to a technical change in the financing of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is also an opportunity to assess the functioning of the whole reformed education system for judges and prosecutors. In a holistic view, the current direction set by the Minister of Justice should be assessed rather positively. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is a formula in which the training of judges seems to be more effective. The training methods used broaden the horizons of future judges and implement them for the future role. The current method of recruitment allows you to select the best lawyers throughout Poland, although the practical exam, here our little attention, should be a more important part than the theoretical exam. This should be the norm in such cases. In the view of the Confederation, this draft law is underdeveloped by art. 55a paragraph. 3, according to which the appropriations referred to in paragraph 3 which have not been used in the financial year in question are used. 1. they shall remain at the disposal of the national school for the following year and may only be used for the tasks for which they have been allocated. In our view, it would be better if unused finance in a given year could be transferred once to awards for judicial staff who have proven to be most efficient at work. It would be a change for the courts. Notwithstanding the final assessment of the changes to the funding system of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office near the Confederation, it would like to draw attention to the need for further work to stabilise the training system throughout the country. The establishment of a second training centre, which is more accessible to the inhabitants of northern Poland, should be considered in the first place. It is equally important to remove the institutional background of the general judiciary from the crisis. Currently, the greatest rotation falls within the professional group of assistants of the judge. The shortcomings of the system result in young, educated lawyers leaving the profession after a few years of their first practice, and inexperienced lawyers must be employed again to the courts. Circle of the Polish Confederation calls for the development of a rapid system of reassignment of judges' assistants to judicial positions, i.e. referenda of court or judicial experts. Despite the development of the relevant legislation, there is still no provision of the Minister of Justice on the referenda exam. Assistants of the judge should be able to immediately perform a supplementary application at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to increase the number of jurors by at least 20%. This will unload cases and speed things up. Nevertheless, near the Confederacy he will support the aforementioned. The bill's draft. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u80	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that two Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Of course, if necessary, I'll extend it. Please, as the first question will be asked by Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Included in the draft article. 55h, which provides for the collection of funds from grants and revenues in various bank accounts, does not exhaust the conditions that should be met in order to avoid the need for the European Commission to notify the project in question under Article. 108. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The designer should be well aware of this. The conditions must be strictly met in order to avoid this. Thus, both activities must be clearly separated, the sources of funding, and hence the grant and own income, must also be clearly distributed, and finally the entity concerned by the project must properly attribute costs and revenues to individual activities, so that there is no so-called. cross-subsidisation of economic activities. Therefore, I have a question (the bell) - the amendments have already been announced here - how it could have happened that these important elements of this project, which was so quickly processed, because we are about to have a committee meeting on this project, these important decisions were not included here. Who prepares the amendments, and in particular does this happen in one of the ministries of this government? Then you would lose the nature of the rapid procession you introduced in the case of this project. And when are we finally gonna get to know these amendments? I ask, given that we also need to assess them from the legal side, not only we Members, but also, for example, the Legislative Office or the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u82	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is an institution that educates prosecutors and judges. It's the only facility like this. As there has been a change in funding for an entity grant and the authorising officer is the Minister of Justice, this law is necessary and we fully support this law. Nevertheless, I have a question: What will be the solutions that resolve the doubts as to whether the change in funding will be permitted public aid? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u84	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Marcin Romanowski, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, submitted a request for an answer on behalf of the government. You're welcome, Minister. Excuse me, Marshal, it's settled that I will answer. Okay, here you go. So Mr Piotr Sak as the representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my sincere thanks for any observations, signals, but also in principle not questioning the main structures, core and skeleton of the bill. Referring in detail to the issues raised by the Members, I would like to say first of all that, of course, when it comes to the construction of the bill, from far-reaching caution to rule out any shadow of doubt, the Sejm Analysis Office, as well as the UOKiK, were asked to obtain information in this regard. It should also be borne in mind that it was difficult to suggest in that regard that, in such a sub-minimum way, the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office were to be regarded as unlawful public aid. Of course, this is where the organs blow. And maybe it's okay. Therefore, looking from the perspective of these signals, it will be possible to carry out as if refinements, modernizations of those records which have been introduced. It will be shown here in a simple way that there will be separate bank accounts for which there will be these financial resources within the framework of economic activities, which, to be stressed, today are actually only obtained in terms of renting accommodations for judges or prosecutors so it is really very narrow, very minimal scope of activity in the context of the fact that of course the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office have the possibility, but - as I say - it is not exploited to any extent, there is really no desire to expand, enter the market. After all, we are well aware that such a school is the only one in Poland and in principle there is no competition, because it is a specific entity, as it has been emphasized before. Of course, there were, ladies and gentlemen, consultations. There have been consultations with the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This seems to be the expectation to make all adjustments and amendments. As regards the issues raised by Mrs Dolniak, Mr Kaminski and Mrs Żukowska, as I have indicated, the relevant projects are already being prepared. It is clear from the amendment that there will be no need for notification if appropriate corrections are made. They will be presented at a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in such a way as to be consistent with the Water Law Act. Such were the observations from the UOKiK: if they are introduced and corporate in the draft law, there will be no doubt about the need for notification. That is why these solutions are already being applied, and we are not pioneers here. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u86	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 to present our position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office (print No 89). The draft provides for amendments to the financing rules of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the case of public universities, as a result of the change in legislation, there has been a change in the form of basic funding for the university's activities from an entity grant to a subsidy. It's the so-called. a constitution for science, most of which entered into force on 1 January 2020. The project promoters stressed that since the start of the KSSIP's operation it has been financed by an entity grant, it seems appropriate to add a provision which will clearly define this form. However, according to the Ministry of Justice, there is no basis for financing the core activity of the KSSIP in the form of subsidies. The KSSiP's statutory activities are therefore financed through an entity grant. The grant is to be valued annually at least by an indicator of the increase in prices of consumer goods and services planned in the state budget. In line with the proposed changes, unused appropriations for the current year will be left for future periods, provided that they can be used for the implementation of the tasks for which they have been allocated. Nor should the reimbursement be subject to the financial resources at the disposal of the school at the time of the entry into force of the law. At present, as a result of changes to the rules, according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Justice, an entity grant granted to KSSIP, in the unused part, would be reimbursed to the State budget by 31 January of the year following the financial year. Such a position, which deviates from the existing well-established KSSIP practice, may have far-reaching negative consequences for KSiP's financial stability. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is to conduct a stand-alone financial economy on the basis of an in-kind-financial plan approved by the Minister of Justice. The KSSIP is to submit monthly to the Justice Minister and the annual accounts for the use of the funds received. Moreover, the State Treasury and local government units will be able to transfer the national real estate school in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the 1997 Real Estate Management Act. According to the draft law, the performance of the duties of a national school lecturer constitutes an individual creative activity, in accordance with copyright and related rights, as well as research and development, scientific, scientific, teaching, teaching and research activities, art. Article 22 (2) (b) 9b point 8 of the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax. This clarification will in turn allow to remove doubts about the nature of the activities carried out by KSSiP lecturers. Where the responsibilities of KSSiP lecturers correspond to those of academic teachers, the legislation adopted will further confirm the correctness of the school's position on the possibility for KSSiP to apply a rate of 50% in the calculation of advances on the income tax of lecturers. the cost of obtaining revenue, regardless of the favourable tax interpretation in this respect. For the staff of the national school, a write-down to an occupational social benefit fund of 6,5% shall be made. planned by the national school in the previous year's annual personal salaries. High Izbo! In its opinion on the proposal, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection rightly notes that part of the services provided - publishing, events and tourism and hotels - by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with EU law cannot be covered by a State grant as they are provided on a competitive external market. There is therefore a need for changes to the project, which will ensure a clear separation of economic and non-economic activities carried out by the school, so as not to affect the state aid rules. We do not comment on the remaining provisions of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u88	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in print No 89 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Marshal of the Sejm also proposes that the Sejm should be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined today. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (print No 115). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, contained in print No 115. The solutions contained in the draft law change the scope of the service of providing PIT tax payers with pre-filled tax returns through the tax portal. The rules governing the operation of the service were adopted in 2018 and the implementation of the service itself was spread over time into two stages. In the first stage, at the beginning of 2019, the service was made available to non-business persons and special agricultural production departments clearing tax for 2018 at the statements of PIT-37 and PIT-38. Within this service called your e-PIT, the National Tax Administration prepares pre-filled tax returns to taxpayers, they are created automatically, without the need for taxpayers to submit any application. Testimonies are prepared for clearing taxpayers individually, for tax-payers together with their spouse and for particularly taxed single parents. In preparing tax returns, the National Tax Administration is based on data from payers, data provided by the taxpayer in the tax return for the previous year and data contained in the records of its head of the National Tax Administration and other state registers. The first stage of implementation of your e-PIT service has been a major success. Nearly 7 million taxpayers benefited from the service. Importantly, the information action on the new service has increased interest in another form of electronic clearing of taxpayers, i.e. e-Corporates, among taxpayers not covered by your e-PIT programme. In 2019 as many as 13 million PIT taxpayers benefited from the e-declaration. This means that in a form other than paper accounted for a total of about 20 million PITs. In the second phase of the service, scheduled for 15 February 2020, it was assumed that a preliminary completed tax return would be made available to further categories of PIT taxpayers, inter alia. persons engaged in economic activities and special agricultural production departments, clearing tax for 2019 through PIT-28 and PIT-36. The government proposes to modify this plan and spread the next stage of sharing your e-PIT service into two phases. This is due to the need to adapt the service already in operation to the changes in tax legislation introduced during 2019. These include: Youth relief and a new tax scale. As these changes entered into force in mid- 2019, they could not be taken into account when performing the first phase of the service at the beginning of last year. Deploying the next phase of your e-PIT implementation into two phases will also allow you to focus on the preparation of more advanced and comprehensive services of the National Tax Administration for taxpayers. The first part of the second phase of the implementation of your e-PIT service is planned in line with existing arrangements for mid-February 2020. It will include increasing the functionality of the already available service, as well as the availability of further functionalities. Firstly, from February 2020, the amount of child relief provided to taxpayers will be shown on the basis of data obtained from the Ministry of Digitalisation from the PESEL database, and in the case of adult children learning in Poland, students and PhD students, on the basis of data from the register of the Minister of Science and Higher Education. In addition, the service will include in 2020 the statements of PIT-28 and PIT-36 by taxpayers who do not carry out economic activities or special agricultural production departments. As a result, the National Tax Administration will prepare the testimony of PIT-36 among others. taxable persons who, in this statement, settle income from other countries, rental income or income from the paid disposal of movable goods. As a result, the number of users of this service will increase by more than 2 million compared to the 2018 settlement. On the other hand, temporary shifts will be made available to economic operators and special agricultural production departments. In view of these circumstances, the full availability of this service on 15 February 2020 would not guarantee that there are no errors in the tax returns prepared by the National Tax Administration, which cannot be the case for the liability of the tax administration for the quality of the data provided to the taxpayer. At the same time, it should be stressed that the amendments presented do not imply a waiver from the provision of pre-filled tax returns to businesses. Their part will be made available within the framework of the e-Tax Office project, which the Ministry of Finance is currently working on. The entry into force of the proposed amendments also does not entail any additional obligations for entrepreneurs or persons operating special agricultural production departments. Nor does it make the situation of these taxpayers worse. They will account for 2019 as they have been so far, i.e. by making a statement in paper or electronic form, i.e. through the e-declarations system. Only in 2018, as many as 2 million of 2.5 million entrepreneurs benefited from it. The draft law provides for the entry into force of the amendments on 15 February 2020, which results from the deadline for the provision of tax returns by the National Tax Administration to taxpayers for 2019. The entry into force of the proposed amendments does not affect the public finance sector, including also does not have financial implications for the state budget. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u90	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Piotr Uściński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the bill amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. Ladies and gentlemen! The Sejm Act of 4 October 2018 amending the Personal Income Tax Act and certain other laws introduced a service consisting in the fulfilment of a tax return by the National Tax Administration without the need to submit any application by the taxpayer. In the first stage, the service was made available to settle the tax for 2018. This was the case for taxable persons not engaged in business activities and clearing the statement on the PIT-37 form and for taxable persons obtaining income from cash capital clearing using the PIT-38 form. The service includes both clearing taxpayers individually and jointly with their spouse or with their children for single parents. The second stage, which was planned for this year, was to cover further forms of PIT and entrepreneurs. As the Ministry points out in the explanatory memorandum, this first stage was quite exemplary. The Minister mentioned that 7 million taxpayers benefited from this. It was also prepared to improve this system of functioning, to implement the tax changes that the Sejm adopted in the previous tax year, i.e. PIT-0 for young people, i.e. to reduce PIT for all other workers. These implementations will be implemented and will also be able to be cleared by individuals, by employees of the tax for the previous, 2019 on the basis of the form already completed by the KAS. It is a proposal that, as I understand the Minister correctly, it is a new service to be provided by the KAS for entrepreneurs, for the other taxpayers of this form. I think this is a very good solution, Minister. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High Sejm to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u92	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law submitted to the Sejm was intended to continue the process of providing taxpayers with income tax on individuals with the possibility for the competent tax authorities to pre-supplie tax returns. At this point, it should be recalled that the Law of 4 October 2018 amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws introduced a service consisting in the fulfilment of the tax return by the National Tax Administration without any need for the taxpayer to submit any application. This meant that the National Tax Administration was filling out a tax return for taxpayers on individuals, based on information from payers, data provided by the taxpayer in the tax return for the previous year and data contained in the KAS' own registers and other state registers. This regulation was long-awaited and seen as a major facilitation by taxpayers. The implementation of the service of providing a completed statement through the tax portal has been spread over time. It was assumed that the implementation of the service would take place in two stages. Last year, a service was made available to taxable persons who are not engaged in business activities to settle the tax for 2018. This year, the second stage of the service was to be carried out, also addressed to taxable persons engaged in economic activities. Unfortunately, however, at this point, taxpayers were disappointed because the proposal submitted to the High House lacks a service to provide taxable persons carrying out business tax returns prepared by the tax administration. At this moment, the question arises as to what were the reasons and reasons for limiting this service that taxpayers expected and why the projectors submitted so late a new law, although these regulations were not the subject of extensive public consultation and opinion. The explanation that entrepreneurs will not be able to benefit from pre-filled tax returns due to unexpected legislative changes is not convincing. Projectors do not specify what specific changes are involved, but we can conclude that this surprising change is a reduction in PIT to 0% for people up to the age of 26 and a reduction in PIT. However, as these changes were introduced in August and October 2019 respectively, it is difficult in this case to talk about surprising and unexpected changes, or rather of very late work both on the preparation of new legislation and on the provision of a new service to economic operators. In view of the above, it should be stressed that, while the direction of the proposed changes by the designers is appropriate and responds to the expectations of taxpayers, there is a great deal to be desired by the timelyness of the proposed changes and the further withdrawal during the preliminary process of preparing annual tax returns for those engaged in economic activities, which was intended to constitute another important step to facilitate business contacts with the tax administration. However, as I have already said, these are changes expected by taxpayers, which is why the Civic Coalition Club supports the proposed project and we are in favour of it being referred to further work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u94	Thank you, Member. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Left Club by Hanna Gill-Friday. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm not going to refer to this project anymore. I will just say that according to the latest report of Doing Business made by the World Bank, the Polish company takes 334 hours a year to complete its duties. That's more than twice the average for OECD countries. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Morawiecki keeps talking about micro- and small entrepreneurs, that they are the salt of this land, e.g. On 18 September in Katowice, Poland focuses on being a good country to do business for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, or on 24 November Ub. In Pilchowice, the prime minister says that the government will do everything to help the smallest entrepreneurs grow. It is entrepreneurs who build the Polish economy. The Prime Minister stressed that the government is making it easier for micro-enterprises to support entrepreneurs in their business activities. And yet this project you're just telling them, "Sorry, we didn't make it. We don't have your coat. What are you gonna do to us? Like other taxpayers, you will not be able to use the service of a pre-filled PIT statement, although we already have a reasonably functioning system. You say, "We have such a mess that we have to get out of things that have already been passed." The information technology of the country that PiS promised is still stuck in tons of printed paper sent by traditional mail. It's still the 19th century, not the 21st century. You're not even in the box anymore. This is the state of clay tablets. Despite the declarations rather than supporting small businesses, the government shuffles the hat to a great international business, as evidenced by e.g. just updated in the Ministry of Finance regulations on withholding tax, because the big foreign business waved its hand and said that the withholding tax is too time-consuming and generates additional costs. Sorry, not even tax, just a procedure to refund this tax to a big corporation. Meanwhile, for micro- and small enterprises, reality is very different. Even if their contribution to the Social Security Office is linked to the average wage in the economy, which is a very imperfect indicator and which today is being raised by salaries in global corporations. The forecast of this average wage, on the basis of which the entrepreneurs pay ZUS, included in the budget bill is over PLN 5200. And Poland is not just Warsaw. And this is not the real earnings of most small entrepreneurs who do not have special budgets to pay tax advisors, who over the hundreds of hours a year will calculate taxes and send testimony to the office. It is, of course, glorious that the government, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, wants to ensure the security of citizens' financial data. And it's nice to see that he can never admit that the plans were blown. However, all of this is a matter of priorities. You care more about the big foreign business than about the small business of Poles and Poles. And this bill is the best proof of that. Maybe you've learned something from your own mistakes, for example. at last year's premiere of your e-PIT service, which is supposed to be such a success, and in February the system actually collapsed on the first day. I will also quote a passage from the explanatory memorandum: given the recent changes in the legislative environment that have not been foreseen in the first phase. As you can see, even in your ministry, someone has finally realized the legislative diarrhea that prevails in this parliament. You carry out three readings of one law in one session of the Sejm, not allowing for a thorough analysis or consultation. The laws enter into force so quickly that citizens and citizens, companies and organisations do not have time to prepare for change. You are unable to prepare even your own government officials to change tax regulations, and this ends in such a way that they refuse to issue tax rulings. This legislative hydra of yours is starting to eat its own tail. This hydra has very many heads, but this tail is only one and it is the good of citizens, the good of entrepreneurs in this case. The Left certainly will not support this project. Clean up your mess yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u96	Mr Czesław Siekierski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! The content of the proposed solution is the amendment of the Act of 4 October 2018 concerning changes in the service related to the provision of personal income tax to taxpayers within the framework of your e-PIT service, the possibility for tax authorities to pre-supplie tax returns without prior request from interested parties in this matter. The tax information prepared by the National Tax Administration is based on previous data, on information from the taxpayer, on its accounts for the previous year and on the data that the tax services have in the available registers. As foreseen by the Act of 4 October 2018, the implementation of this solution within the framework of your service e-PIT was foreseen in two stages, for 2018 - first stage and second stage - for 2019. The second phase included significant extensions to the scope of these services. The dynamics of the changes in the area of tax solutions lead to a serious risk of failing to meet the scheduled deadlines for the second stage. This is about the mentioned resignation from PIT for people up to 26 years old or reducing it from 18% to 17%. This is probably also the result of the failure to prepare for the tasks of tax services. I think it's good in such a situation that these changes are anticipated. Otherwise, the envisaged aid to the taxpayer could cause additional difficulties for the taxpayer. Detailed solutions require careful analysis in the Committee on Public Finance, which we will probably be dealing with. We are in favour of the bill being sent to the Public Finance Commission. If it comes to resummation, this service, as I said, will not have a full scope in 2020 and will therefore not take into account information about some PITs for 2019 and will also not be covered by certain economic activities, including non-agricultural economic activities and special divisions. It is important that this amendment does not prejudge the withdrawal from the pre-service of completed tax returns for taxpayers, e.g. your e-PIT. certain economic activities or non-agricultural activities mentioned. We are in favour of referring this law to the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u98	Thank you very much. Four Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition Club. There's no envoy. Mr Artur Łącki, Club of the Civic Coalition. There isn't any either. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition. The Member is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This House under your rule is famous for writing laws on your knees. We have another example of this. There was supposed to be a revolution in fulfilling the tax return by the National Tax Administration so that in practice the taxpayer would not have to submit any application. Where is he? This year the service would include apart from PIT-37 and PIT-38 also the testimony of PIT-28, PIT-28S, PIT-36S, PIT-36L, PIT-36L, PIT-36Ls. But now it turns out that it's not easy. Entrepreneurs will have to submit their PIT for 2019 on the basis of existing rules. You explain that other changes recently introduced in the legislative environment that were not foreseen in the first phase of the service have been prevented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are these unexpected legislative changes? You're not explaining this. When the entrepreneurs finally get to... Thank you very much. ... Promised by you to give them a full PIT, a statement... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u100	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On the occasion of this amendment, I would like to ask about the case concerning e-PIT and 1% for a public benefit organisation. Last year's amendment allows, first of all, to modify the list of organizations to which we transfer 1% Second, change the purpose of destiny as well. This is important, because within 15 years of this institution's functioning 1% for last year 14.5 million citizens transferred PLN 875 million to a public benefit organisation. I would like to ask if there is work in the government on the possibility of sharing this 1%. A lot of taxpayers ask that. The point is, for example. These 100 zł, 200 zł - and some have large amounts, especially the taxpayers of the flat-rate tax - could divide into more than one (the bell) organization of public benefit. With e-PIT, it wouldn't be a problem, because it would just be another rubbish that could be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u102	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the project there is a change concerning a service consisting in the fulfilment of a tax return by the National Tax Administration. This service will be postponed. And my question: When is the Ministry of Finance planning to introduce a new solution regarding PIT clearing by entrepreneurs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u104	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the questions raised by you and your fellow Members, I would like to point out, first of all, that in the area of informationalization of the State and the provision by the National Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance of further functionalities to taxpayers, both workers and entrepreneurs, the state of progress of work and the state's state of computerisation, the figures that I would like to mention once again are best demonstrated. Newly proposed, since 2019, the functionality of your e-PIT has allowed you to exempt from the obligation to fill in the tax return, to present a completed tax return of up to 7 million PIT taxpayers who have benefited from it. In 2020 another 2 million taxpayers will be made available for 2019. E-declarations, which entrepreneurs can already benefit from when settling PITs, are popular and are gaining more and more popularity. In 2017, 8 million taxpayers settled by e-declaration, 13 million more in 2018, i.e. 5 million more. It can be said that within two years the number of taxpayers who settled by e-declaration has virtually doubled. Therefore, it is difficult to talk about Poland as a country from cardboard, dictation or tablets. What's more? In addition, the next question that arose from you and your fellow Members was a question concerning micro and small business and further functionalities provided on the one hand by the National Tax Administration, on the other hand by the Ministry of Finance. I would like to remind you that in recent years the Ministry of Finance has made available a number of functionalities, whether organisational or legislative, dedicated to small and medium-sized businesses. Enough to remind you of the reduction of CIT for the smallest business - first up to 15% , then up to 9%, increasing the possibility of one-off depreciation, increasing the possibility of one-off settlement of losses to PLN 5 million. The field where support is combined and small, and a little bigger, but certainly the most forward-looking business together with state IT and creating a new quality in the Polish economy, were two reliefs introduced in taxes. On the one hand, the R &amp; D discount, which may in some cases account for up to 250% of the costs expenditure dedicated to R &amp; D of the company, on the other hand so-called. IP Box discount allowing taxing profit from registered activity in Poland, intellectual property not at 18%, 19%, 15% or 8% , and only 5%. To the last of the 1% split questions The Ministry of Finance would like to comment in writing. I would also strongly encourage the applicant to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u106	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, contained in print No 115, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Marshal of the Sejm also proposes that the Sejm should be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) The three Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined on 9 January. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees (print No 97). I ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicants, I briefly present the need and purpose of bringing to the High House a draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, print No 97. As we all know, for many years Poland has lacked a stable, predictable, long-term and adequate funding system for public media. In addition, among others, Under the 2008 Act, there has been a significant increase in the number of persons exempt from the obligation to pay subscription fees. As a result, in order to ensure the performance of the public service mission of radio and television, and thus to perform one of the duties of the Polish State, it is necessary to compensate for the loss of revenue. Moreover, a number of European institutions over recent years have also highlighted the need to ensure adequate, secure, transparent and adequate funding for public media, i.e. funding to ensure that the missions of these media are carried out. At the same time, the European institutions suggest financing public media from various sources... Public! ...to ensure their independence. For reimbursement from the state budget of loss of subscription revenue The National Radio and Television Council has also repeatedly requested. The act submitted aims to enable the performance of the State's duties in the implementation of the public mission of Polish Radio and Television - by Polish Television - by aligning the level of funding for the ceiling needed in 2020. The project envisages introducing, from 2017, a similar one to that of the last few years, the loss of revenue resulting from the exemption from subscription fees in 2020. The compensation mechanism proposed in this Act consists in the issuance of treasury securities. The compensation would be transferred in the form of treasury securities and allocated under the supervision of the National Radio and Television Council - just as subscription fees - exclusively for the implementation by Polish Radio and regional companies of Polish Radio and Polish Television, including regional branches of Polish Television, public mission, up to the amount of expenditure incurred in connection with the implementation of this mission. The role of the National Radio and Television Council as a constitutional body responsible for the public interest in the field of radio and television, including the financing of public missions, national media, will be preserved and even strengthened, in this case in particular for the allocation of resources taking into account the needs of individual public radio and television units in implementing the missionary role of these media. It is the national council in the event of the adoption by the High House of this bill that will divide compensation between public broadcasters. The proposed value of the estimated compensation was calculated on the basis of the national board's data, based on the number of subscribers who registered their receivers exempt from the charges and the amount of the subscription fee in 2020. It is proposed to grant public media compensation in the form of fiscal securities with a nominal value of not more than PLN 1950 million in 2020, i.e. the financial consequences of this law, either less than or above the above value. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the implementation of the mission by the public media must be ensured, on behalf of the applicants, I request the immediate referral of the bill submitted to the Committee on Culture and Media and, subsequently, that the High Sejm adopt the above draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u108	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Rafał Bochenek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the law on subscription fees. Ladies and gentlemen! Public media, which in every democratic country are one of the key pillars of the rule of law - they are often called the fourth power - in Poland for years due to the lack of a stable, orderly and predictable funding mechanism they could not properly fulfil their role, which was the result of their permanent destruction and devastation. Why did this happen? It is worth paying attention here to international regulations and the global standard of public media budgeting. All major international organisations point to the need to ensure adequate, secure and transparent funding of public media, i.e. one which will guarantee them the means necessary to carry out the public service mission. That's what she's been paying attention to, among other things. The Council of Europe, as well as the European Commission in its numerous communications, including 2009. In addition, the Council of Europe stresses in its documents that funding should enable broadcasters to plan long-term, so that the media is free from ad hoc pressure and any pressure or even blackmail from political decision-makers. What happened in Poland? Almost since the beginning of the 1990s, we have observed slow, albeit systematic reduction of sources of public media funding through specific statutory actions - from 1993 onwards, through the Act of 13 June 2008 amending the Act on subscription fees - which introduced further categories of entities exempt from subscription fees, significantly reducing the financing of public media without compensating for financial losses. It is worth noting that the above-mentioned law has challenged the dead. Mr Lech Kaczyński also referred to the Constitutional Tribunal for its constitutional compatibility. At that time, the Court found that the extension of the exemption from the subscription, yes, falls within the freedom of the legislator's action, but does not exempt him from the obligation to lay down the appropriate financing rules, since the implementation of the public service mission is not possible without providing the public media with adequate public funding. The above words of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal give the sumptuous but true statement that insufficient funding of public media in Poland has in fact led to the destruction of their freedom, independence and integrity, because what else would the statutory solutions restricting the financing of public radio and television lead to? Moreover, political attempts have also been made in previous years to weaken public media outside the legislative framework. Let us recall the words of some politicians, such as the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who promised to abolish the subscription, which, of course, he failed to comply with, and calling it a racket, suggested that the subscription should not be paid. Such a policy had a concrete, numerical and unambiguously negative impact on the financing of public media in Poland, both radio and television. Thus, according to the Central Statistical Office, over 96% of more than 14.5 million households in Poland have a television receiver, of which only less than 6.6 million subscribers have registered their receivers. Of these 6.6 million subscribers, almost 4 million are exempt from payment. So, in summary, at the end of 2018, subscription fees were regulated by 1 million entities, or 1 million households, and we have 14.5 million households in Poland. The lack of an idea to build strong, pluralistic public media, decentralised media - in addition to the centres of Warsaw there are regional centres, both radio and television - and the long-term shortcomings in their funding require compensation for the loss of revenue in 2020. Thanks to the mechanism adopted in the draft law, the independent constitutional body, which is the National Radio and Television Council, will be able to compensate, on the basis of a strict algorithm, for the financial losses suffered in recent years by regional public radio centres or public television. It is worth noting that the planned funding will go not only to the central media, Warsaw, but also to regional radio and television centres, which really need it as a result of many years of neglect and underfunding. According to the draft law, the calculation of the loss of revenues from the subscription over the years amounted to more than PLN 2880 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The project we are working on, hypothetically, because ultimately this will be decided by the national council, provides for support up to a maximum of PLN 1950 million. In view of the importance and importance of these arguments, we believe that this project is important and needs to be worked on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u110	Thank you very much. Now Mr Rafał Grupiński on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I apply for rejection at first reading of this bill. And now I'm gonna give you a brief explanation. Well, John Paweł Woronicz, a bishop whose funeral was a patriotic manifestation, has this bad luck, it is unfortunate that on the street of his name there is a very famous, fatal institution, which today is a department of propaganda of one party. If Bishop Woronicz were alive today, he would not have written Sybil's Temple, but would have written a dialogue about two Mr.K. Well, one Mr. K. says to the other Mr. K: well, it didn't work out very well. The one less tall to the taller. The taller he says, well, but it came out, we have four votes to go. That's what this slightly lower Mr. K says: yes, but every vote of advantage cost us 250 million from your institution, [[Applause]] And now we have a new election, we need twice as much money, or we're not gonna win this election. And that's what two Mr. K's were talking about. - the less tall one and the taller one, the less important one and the more important one. But the problem is, coming out of this kind of literary digression, that in five days we unfortunately celebrate the death of President Paul Adamowicz. It looks like one of Mr. K.'s ridiculously, taunting a simple, basic morality, has doubled money today for an institution that, to a large extent, as many people have claimed, has been co-responsible for the prosecution of President Adamowicz. Today, this campaign leads to Marshal Thomas Grodzki, the Ombudsman of the Civil Rights of Adam Bodnar. You want to increase your money to an institution that is not public television. [[Applause]] This isn't public television. This is an institution that, in fact, with the help of officers who pretend to be journalists, I am talking here of course about information programs, publicist programs, simply running a regular party chase against people who have a different opinion from them today. You have the audacity in such a sad, dramatic anniversary to double the money so that this fatal, full of sting and dislike of people with different views will strengthen the institution. This is a real scandal. There can't be permission for decent people to do that. It's amoral. And all I'm worried about is that one of these Mr. K., although they probably both take advantage of it, I use a literary metaphor, some kind of perverse pleasure, right now, on my anniversary, he's doing it. Now I'm gonna double the money for this institution. What the hell, let them know, let them finally know that we have the power, we'll prove that we're gonna save the next person, prove to you that we're gonna do what we want. And morality? What about morality? Power matters, not morality. That's the approach, ladies and gentlemen? I'm talking to you from the PiS. Consider whether this is the right time or whether on the anniversary of Paul Adamowicz's death you should double the money for an institution that 1773 times in 2018 tried to spit, defame, weaken. She didn't try. She spit. This did not work out for good luck, because it is difficult for a decent man to defame, even with such huge and expensive instruments that you used, but it has undoubtedly led to an explosion of hatred and a tragedy at the end. That is why I urge you from the Law and Justice Club: withdraw this project. This is not the time, on the eve of the next finale of the Christmas help orchestra, on the anniversary that we will all be sadly celebrating, to show our fingers to people who still have some moral sensitivity, to double their spending on this kind of action. Both the less tall and the taller Mr. K., the less important Mr. K. and the more important Mr. K. they should think about what they're forcing you to do with this kind of vote, perhaps tomorrow. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u112	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Left Club, I ask you to reject this project in its entirety, because this project is simply a lie. This lie is already indicated in the explanatory memorandum, in the first sentences of this project, because you are saying that these 2 billion are intended for a public mission. And is the public mission a probe among the viewers of the TVP news, where the question was whether Marshal Grodzki took bribes? Is it a public mission to use uneven air time in favour of the politicians of the ruling camp, for whom public television has become a party barker? Is the public mission impudent and devoid of any evidence the ombudsman's craving for his son, Donald Tusk, who is still guilty of everything, even though you've been in charge for five years? Is it a public mission to ignore the media coverage of this year's Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk? Is it a public mission to compare Greta Thunberg to Stalin and Hitler? Is it a public mission to invite Private Kaczyński to breakfast TV, in which he melted over great contacts with Mrs Przyłębska as his social discovery? Is public service money for a street music concert, where the singer sings to a teenage girl, quote: you can shake your ass and move nicely, the object of desire you have just become? And is public service money for a movie "Invasion," which was one big scumbag on the LGBT community in the last parliamentary campaign? The materials issued by public television, on which you want to give so much money, will only be part of party politics for some time, and, to put it simply, Mr Kaczyński will appoint an enemy, and public television will scare the enemy, or will do anything to discredit and undermine this enemy's credibility, just as you have recently done in the case of protesting resident doctors. I'll remind you of the TV footage of one of the resident doctors in which you said she was resting on an exotic vacation, and then it turned out that she was on a mission where she was saving people. As it turned out later, since this doctor had filed a public television trial, the editors of this journalist, Mr. Tomasz Owsiński and Samuel Pereira, they made him write this nonsense for our money. It was no different when people with disabilities protested here. The public television camera was present 24 hours a day, day and night and looked at what Adrian Glinka and Jakub Hartwich were doing, as if you were waiting for them to get up out of their wheelchairs and start dancing. You were looking for something to piss on them, and you did it regardless of what you shot there. Public television also stifled and led to murder in the case of Paweł Adamowicz. I'm not afraid, Mr. Kurski, of the lawsuit you're sending me. Yes, you were sniffing at Paweł Adamowicz throughout 2018 and led among others to the murder of Paweł Adamowicz. That's bullshit. According to NEWTON Media, in 2018 public television dealt with the sting on Adamowicz 1773 times. 1773 times was paul Adamowicz. And you led to murder. What's going on today? Today, these cameras are directed at the Marshal of the Senate of Tomasz Grodzki. This crusade of slander, which continues now, could lead to another tragedy. And then you're gonna have blood on your hands because you're gonna spend $2 billion on hat and sting. Unfortunately, dear public television viewers, who all the time watch public television and listen to what is passed on to you, precisely on these slanders, on these lies and on these manipulations is going to go to 2 billion PLN of our money. And the worst part is that these 2 billion zlotys are supposed to go when teachers keep earning pennies, when health care is a mess, when there are no children's psychiatrists, when young doctors want to leave the country because they still have starving salaries. As Members of the Left, unfortunately - unfortunately, but also at last - we will not allow the embezzlement of money, because this bill means embezzlement of public money, and what Mr Kurski is doing - yes, what you are doing, Mr Kurski - is simply disgusting. I disgust myself, Mr. Kurski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u114	Oh, yeah, I feel sorry for the Left. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u115	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! The tough words of quality assessment, and in principle the lack of any quality in particular public television information programmes, have already been spoken from this speaker. I share them, and I won't repeat them. I will focus on those who may be watching and listening to us today, on the amount, to make you aware of what PLN 2 billion means, which in a moment we will transfer from our common public assets to the functioning of the so-called. public media. Yeah, public, but in that worse sense of the word. 2 billion is twice as much as the PiS government spent on so-called. free medicines for seniors over 75 years of age. 2 billion is what PiS announces to spend for the next 4 years on modernization of Polish hospitals. We all know what Polish health care looks like and what investments it needs. So for 4 years they are going to spend on modernization of Polish hospitals as much as this year they want to give Jack Kurski's TV this year. 2 billion is as much as in the next four years the PiS government promises to spend on modernization of Polish schools in which our young people learn the future of our nation. Finally, 2 billion is more than needed to build two museums of Polish history, and more than to build two tunnels connecting the island of Uznam and Wolin in Świnoujście. That's the scale of waste. To imagine even better, my dear country, 2 billion is the budget of a city the size of Gdynia. For 2 billion, President Gdynia provides daily bus and trolley bus transport, from 3 p.m. Five o'clock in the morning, probably. 23; daily cleaning, maintenance of teachers, maintenance of schools, kindergartens and clinics. 2 billion is spent to meet the expectations of an ambitious, 250-thousand population in Gdynia. And 2 billion will go to equip a hundred times smaller group of employees of Polish Television. Dear country, what did the previous grant go to, which in 2017 amounted to 600 million on TV? Among other things, as reported by industry media, increases were granted to the executive staff - 2 000. Dear retiree, you have just been promised 1,200 zł of your 13th pension once a year, and the directors on public television have received 2,000. every month, 24,000. in the year. That's some spring break, isn't it? Oh, that's hot. You realize how cheated you are, dear retiree, dear senior, by this government and its expenses, wasted expenses, because this money is also your money. What else? It is shocking that as part of the National Oncology Strategy for research into new drugs against cancer, civilizational disease, 1/3 of Poles are at risk and 1/4 are threatened with death due to cancer, the PiS government allocates PLN 100 million, 20 times less than in a moment will spend on Kurski's television. Public television likes to brag about its big ratings, but it doesn't appear in off-budget revenue, except for public funds. You don't see advertisers pushing, even though you have state Treasury companies under control. Public television likes to organize fundraisers to help children. I looked at one of the last collections from September, at little Filipek - saving lives - 1 million PLN. If this money were spent on such a purpose, saving children who suffer from very rare diseases, a few thousand children could be helped to save, perhaps from death or disability. But no, of course it's going to go to the massacre and that big scorn industry on the street. Voronica. Scorn, lies. I am filing a motion on behalf of our club for rejection of the bill and I am announcing a bill that will rationally solve the problem of financing public television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u116	Mr Krystian Kamiński, Confederation Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on subscription fees aims to transfer additional money of almost PLN 2 billion in the form of treasury securities for Polish Television and Polish Radio. This is another act of this kind. For 2018 public media already received 980 million from the budget, for 2019 it was already 1,200 million PLN, this year it is almost 2 billion. Would you like to ask if this is how much money was made for the New Year's Eve of Dreams, or whether people who make stripes on TVP Info and other unfunny programs simply have to get a raise because of the increase in excise duty on alcohol? By the way, the Law and Justice take an interesting route. On the one hand, you raised the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products, and therefore the budget revenue was estimated at PLN 1.7 billion, and now you pay the same money back to TVP. I wonder how you're gonna explain to people that they're gonna pay more for alcohol and cigarettes, but in return, they can listen to Natalia Oreiro on the New Year's Eve of Dreams. I'm sure your tampering specialists will find a way to explain it was the Confederation's fault. That's not what I'm worried about. When it comes to turning the cat's tail, you've already grown to the Platform, and I think you've even chased it away. Okay, I'm going back to the bill. In 2018, 3.7 million subscribers were exempted from the subscription obligation. In addition, only one third of those who are required to pay their subscription do so. So let's put an end to this fantasy of subscription, which is unfair, inefficient and completely outdated. Let's work together on a complete change in the public media system so that next year we don't have to have the same discussion and add more money, wondering if Thomas Anders made a dream employer out of TVP. Circle of the Polish Confederation will vote against the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u118	Thank you very much. 37 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions. Are you sure it's a good idea to spend taxpayers' money again, 2 billion PLN, on PiS public television and propaganda? Are you still going to keep national news such as Mr. Pietrzak, who on TV, on TV Info, spoke about me - note, I quote - a hired slut whom Trzaskowski puts in his head? Isn't it better to spend 2 billion zlotys of taxpayers' money on really civic television, to make Poles aware of current problems, on environmental responsibility, to show how to protect old trees, to conduct mini-lectures by Mr Popkiewicz, which show ecological risks in a very accessible way? Since it's as wonderful as the Prime Minister said this morning, who isn't here right now, you really don't need to spend that money on propaganda. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give them up... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u120	Mr Marek Krzykala, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question about the public television mission, whether something will change in 2020, because so far TVP, like the justice system, unfortunately, has been politicized and serves the interests of one party. Anyway, it was all about that. So is it a mission to manipulate the truth, sting and lie about reality, which unfortunately gets us used to news? The OSCE report published after the parliamentary elections leaves nothing to the public media, which in a very biased way serves the interests of the rulers. And second question: Why increase the funds on TVP, since the incompetent President Jacek Kurski Can't he turn that money into profit? Maybe if he was the manager of the demagogue, something would have worked out, but for now, after deduction of the proceeds from the subscription, the proceeds are dropping. Isn't it better to use this money to save health, because the scandal is that you're giving 2 billion to TVP propaganda and barely 700 million to refund drugs in chemotherapy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u122	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u123	Ladies and gentlemen! Public television has earned its name, the nickname of the town. This is the measure of the fall and the measure of the contribution of this television to the division of society. Here is the situation, that there are 14.5 million households in Poland, and you are talking about some 6 million households who allegedly have a TV. Well, that's not bad, ladies and gentlemen, because the CSO says almost every household has a TV. Plus, there's only $1100,000 left. He pays his subscription. So we're dealing with fiction. The state pretends to pay public tribute, and citizens pretend to pay. And you guys are living it all up. In 2 years, you've increased your public television expenditures by 100%. , from 1 billion to 2 billion, a party that talks about impossibility. You can't even manage anything. I'll tell you what you said: don't steal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u124	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to know if Poles and Poles do not deserve good public television, for such television as is also in other civilized countries, one which is not a show of social engineering, is not a show of heytu, but is a reflection of reality, performs a social mission, educational function, makes Poles and Poles learn something about the world, and not only are they constantly fed with heyth, hatred, and false information. Today we are debating in the Polish Parliament whether we should give 2 billion PLN for a propaganda tube, which is supposedly missing the truth - on the assumption - and has nothing to do with informing the public and being a medium that is reliable and true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u126	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The left is opposed to the allocation of 2 billion from the state budget for television. Jack Kurski's television, unfortunately - I repeat: unfortunately - does not carry with it the kind of mission that it is supposed to perform with regard to viewers. The information programmes are very biased, attacking the opposition, and most disturbing recently public opinion, Marshal Tomasz Grodzki. This is quite reprehensible, because there is no charge or judgment against your marshal. We don't agree to that. We're against this bill. Thank you very much. Great.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u128	Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the fact that the main purpose of public television and Polish Radio is to carry out a public mission, thus ensuring the highest possible programming standards, I ask for information on the occasion of this Act, which criteria are directed by the Management Board of TVP in selecting the offer of Polish feature films published on public television. I am especially asking for information about what the director Radosław Piwowarski deserved, that his films, mostly not the highest artistic flights, have been shown in TVP programs for many years. I also ask for information on the costs of public television for the one-time broadcast of such a film. Please respond in writing as well. When I follow TVP's software offer, I'm often not surprised that a large part of society ignores it and doesn't pay a subscription. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u130	Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS took over public television twice, in 2005 and 2006, and now in 2015. Even then, people who were appalled by what was being promoted stopped paying their subscription. That's why the situation was dramatic. PiS knows that people won't finance this television voluntarily, so they have to spend billions on propaganda. Television has three functions: informational, educational and cultural. Information - it's propaganda and scum. There is no education - there is no anti-violence education, there is no environmental education. Cultural - there is a niche channel TVP Culture, but in fact millions seem to promote Mr. Zenk's questionable work. Please specify exactly what Mr. Zenk's concert's budget was, how much money will be spent on the film (the bell)... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...about Mr. Zenku... Who's Zenek? Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition. ...and how much it seems to promote Olga Tokarczuk's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u132	Thank you, Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The expenditure on the national cancer prevention programme is PLN 250 million per year. Today you are proposing compensation, and in fact the funding of PiS TV for the amount of 1950 million. That's eight times what you're planning as part of your cancer prevention programme -- a cause of 27%. male deaths, 24% female deaths. Ladies and gentlemen! The TVP PiS is really one big propaganda. The closer the election, the more money - the more money the Kursk needs for provocative actions, haters' actions, for example, such actions as those directed by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki at the moment. And the key question is whether the 5,000 that the man in Szczecin offered to a ninety-year-old... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...was it...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u134	Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My colleagues here have already said what could be done for these 2 billion, so I will leave this thread, and I will ask the Members of Law and Justice a very simple question: Did you write any bills to buy these tax bills? Because I think it's a document, something that needs to be bought out. If you're making a draft as Members, didn't you put in some notes? And the second question is, do you have a fortune teller? How do you know it's almost $460,000? Would subscribers who didn't register receivers be exempt from charges? You guys really impressed me with that. I suggest you even consider that everyone who didn't register would be fired. Then out of 2 billion would be 3 billion and villainy, lying and trash would have more money in Mr. Kurski's money. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u136	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Club of the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland under PiS is a country in which people die in queues to doctors, but for this we can afford to spend almost PLN 2 billion on propaganda on PiS television, because that is probably what we need to call it. Looking at what TVP is currently doing under Jack Kurski's rule, I don't know if we can call it a public medium. In my opinion, this psychic is no longer a public medium. Once again, Polish taxpayer's money will go to propaganda. Instead of investing in health care, you will transfer almost PLN 2 billion into salaries for party television. We don't have permission for this transfer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u138	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, PiS finances public media with PLN 2 billion. But this is, ladies and gentlemen, a temporary solution, because we have to ask the question of what to do next. Will the State Treasury finance public media in the long term or will the citizens of the Republic of Poland do so? This happens at a time when there is a shortage of funds for hospitals, at the Lublin Land Oncology Centre Hospital. The oncology hospital unit is closed, i.e. breast cancer research in Lublin. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How much will it cost the citizen and the Treasury to finance public media in the long term? There is no agreement to finance projects such as public media, which are the propaganda tube of the ruling party, at the expense of health care and patients. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u140	Mr Piotr Borys, Civic Coalition Club. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, a club of the Polish People's Party. There isn't any either. Mr Krzysztof Mieszko... Mr. Marshal, I'm in the O.R. I haven't been read. Mr Piotr Boris... Konrad Frysztak. And, please, Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition Club. It's so tiny, you can't see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Apparently, as the Members of the jury say here, I'm too small to be seen by the marshal. But thank you for letting me speak. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! That's a specific question. It's about 2 billion zlotys you want to put on public television. I understand that this will be another brilliant, brilliant benefit of Zenon Martynuk, there will be another brilliant speeches of politicians only on one side. But my question is addressed... And I'd like to get an answer in this courtroom today. How much of this money is gonna be for Jack Kurski, who's already making nearly 34 grand. zł basic salary, without including allowances and extrapensions, extra pay for the fact that he is pissing on opposition politicians, also those politicians who today have high functions in our country, such as Marshal Grodzki? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u142	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, a club of the Polish People's Party. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public television is a curious phenomenon in European democracy. This is television, which destroys Polish democracy with its tool. This is television that corrupts our society. This is television, which is extremely dangerous to PiS politicians themselves, because it creates a unique situation. Well, it's suicide television. It's television out of all moral inhibitions. This is a television that shouldn't exist in this form. This is the TV where the chase became the main publicist form. This is television that really destroys people who do not understand what dialogue is, what cooperation is, what it is to create civil society. This television shouldn't exist. [[Applause]] Long live...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u144	Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the draft law, planned measures, i.e. almost PLN 2 billion, intended exclusively for the execution by public service broadcasters. So my question is, why this project? He is unobtrusive, because in fact for several years TVP has completely failed to carry out a public mission. What is a public mission according to Article. 21th Radio and TV Act? Television, when carrying out a public mission, must offer public, information and educational programmes that are characterised by: pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence. It is difficult for TVP programs to assign these features. That is why we should conclude today the discussion and work on this project and start discussing public television funding when the public mission returns. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u146	Mr Marek Rząsa, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! More billions on TVP during food price increases, electricity, health services collapses it is no longer the typical arrogance of this government - it is the plundering of Poles in broad daylight. The TVP PiS led by Mr Kurski has long ceased to perform a public mission. It is the machine of the disgusting industry of hatred, slander and sting, whose beginning was the grandfather of the Wehrmacht, then there were judges, doctors, people with disabilities, sexual minorities, teachers, nurses, and the final event was last year's tragedy in Gdansk. It is a television that can show even a shocking dramatic report about a child in need of tens of thousands of zlotys for a complex operation that saves lives and at the same time ask Poles for support to allocate millions of zlotys with a light hand a few days later on pseudo-artists whose performances are just a twitch and embarrassing chaltura. He's a know-it-all. At the same time, they have the audacity to say that this is what a national and artistic mission looks like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u148	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Since for the third time the Polish Parliament decides to finance public television with a significant amount, this time more than PLN 2 billion, I would like to ask for written information on how the previous funds were allocated. How many resources did the regional centres of both television and Polish Radio reach? How is this year's grant also intended to be used? One of the missionary goals is to show the most important sporting events. Mr. President Kurski writes on Twitter every time after important sporting events, what is the ratings. In view of the above, I would like to ask: Is the implementation of missions in the area of important sporting events financed by this grant, or is the advertising revenue? Here is the important question whether these sports packages balance out or are also co-financed by this grant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u150	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, especially those watching this debate! 2 billion zlotys, not from the pocket of PiS, but from your pockets, each of you will not go on public television, because we haven't had public television for 4 years, but from PiS-owska TV, which deals with hat, attacking its political opponents, acting only in the interests of PiS. I appeal for reflection, because next Sunday there will be another finale of a great event, which is the biggest charity action of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. We all remember what happened a year ago when we all enjoyed the next tens of millions raised to help the kids, and when really the heyt realized and sniffed by public television also led to a great tragedy, which was (the bell) the murder... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u152	Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Club of the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition. You don't have an MP either. Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition Club. The honourable Member is exceptional. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For PLN 2 billion, hundreds or thousands of lives can be saved. In the meantime, you spend your money just to destroy people's lives. Last year, the object of the attack, the stings, the hatred, the lies were people of the LGBT community, doctors, residents, teachers, local government, not to mention, of course, opposition policies, and cities that you don't like. Now, we've had an attack on Marshal Grodzki since January. Hence my question: Do you have a schedule, a plan, which you will attack every month to destroy? Because that's what this hopeless, hopeless, horrible, destructive scumbag of public television is all about. And there's no reason to laugh, and talking about a mission is the height of hypocrisy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u154	Mr Adam Szłapka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What Poles think about soliciting a bribe of 50,000. Zł by Jarosław Kaczyński? What do the Poles think about Marian Banasi, whom you also voted for, Marshal? These polls will not be commissioned by public television. Little is enough, Poles will not even know that someone in front of the prosecutor's office testified that Jarosław Kaczyński encouraged him to hand over 50,000. bribes in an envelope. Because it's propaganda. You're going to spend $2 billion on propaganda. It's about our money, Poles' money. This is stealing. It's stealing, otherwise you can't call it. [[Applause]] This is stealing when even half of it isn't spent on chemotherapy. What is money to be spent on? For propaganda, for contempt, and, as we recently learned, for bribes for your phony informants. You're gonna answer for that, too. This is stealing. Thieves. And the caterpillar was stealing, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u156	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u157	High Seym! But also dear radio listeners and viewers! The current power lacks the courage to finally reform the financing of public media, because it wants its tube. This power allows dull propaganda, venom, hatred, destruction of inconvenient people and environments. He hires journalists who do every command and do not even have the required workshop, and, worse than that, those who can't even pronounce their name correctly. You forget, dear officer, that this is supposed to be public media, not power, citizen media, not party media. The sooner you leave the public media alone, the sooner they'll get better. If you don't do it, no financial drip is gonna help. Gentlemen of the PiS! What do you know about journalism, media? I'll answer you. None. And if you do not agree, I invite you to a verbal duel according to the Boziewicz Code. [[Applause]] He's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u158	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Coalition. You're welcome. Come in, sir. Talk to Banas about... Mr Rutnicki, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You are saying in the explanatory memorandum that this law has nothing to do with European Union law, but I have some doubts about it, because in the light of the 2009 Communication from the European Commission to make public aid - because it is finally public aid - a public mission must be carried out. And what is a public mission? It is certainly not a division of Poles, it is not just a sting, what we are talking about here, it is not at the service of one party. If it is at the service of one party, that means that this public aid is targeted selectively. And if it is targeted selectively, it cannot be authorised public aid under European Union law. At this point, the fundamental question is: Don't you need - and here I am addressing, dear opposition, to the entire opposition - to verify this document of the European Commission, so that we can check whether the mission it is currently carrying out... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u160	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill shows that you are not dealing with the adoption of a good subscription law. Public media are financially inefficient, they prey on taxpayers' money, with hate speech, and the state has to pay for it. Why is such an important bill proceded as a parliamentary project and public consultation avoided? A planned form of aid, which is not explicitly indicated in the Radio and Television Act notified to the European Commission, may also raise doubts. How can we be sure that the subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by EU law? The spending of nearly PLN 2 billion is wasting public money on propaganda, of course such propaganda (the Bell) that you should be ashamed of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u162	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the question should be asked whether it is not simply a shame for the applicants to sign the bill. There it is. But of course I'm aware that you don't feel shame. If you do not feel shame, then do you have the courage to go out here, to the platform, and tell Poles in the eye that for the oncology treatment of the government of Law and Justice, Members of Law and Justice will give less money than propaganda, because even half of the amount you spend on propaganda by Jack Kurski, Jarosław Kaczyński, will not be transferred to oncology treatment. This bill shows what your priorities are. For you, it is a greater priority to maintain power at all costs, a greater priority is the lie, the sting of Poles and the sowing of hatred than the health and life of Poles. If you're not ashamed, then come out here and tell people. Have courage, tell them... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that you will spend less money on treatment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u164	Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask the Members of the applicants who signed this project if they knew the latest TVP ratings over the last six months. More and more Poles do not watch TVP or TVP Info at all, because from these programs you can only learn about lies, lies and confabulation. If they turn it on, it's just for the weather. How could you decide that 2 billion PLN, the money of Poles, which is very needed for people, for pensioners, for people who are sick and suffering, should be wasted, passing on to Polish Television, which harms the Polish society, which slanders us not only in Poland but also in the international arena? How embarrassing are you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u166	Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill amending the Act on subscription fees, we read: "The proposed regulation will provide public radio and television units with the means to carry out their public service mission. I would like to ask about this public mission in the context of national and ethnic minorities. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on National Minorities and Ethnics, we analysed the VI report on the state of national minorities in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main topics criticised by the minority community is the functioning of public media in the context of minorities, i.e. antenna time for these minorities, programmes about these minorities. I can say this: at regional level - not much, but at central level - at all. This mission is not being carried out as a minority would expect, and the ladies and gentlemen, these are citizens, these are taxpayers who also pay to maintain public media. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence my question: How will this programme be implemented when it comes to minorities? [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u168	Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Given the circumstances, I did not want to speak, but the Member Zimoch encouraged me. What can you say? I've known Jack Kurski since the late 1980s, and I've had my journalism since 1988. I must admit one thing with sadness: neither Polish Television nor Polish Radio have much to do with public media. That's the truth. However, the figures presented here, for example by Mr Bochenk, indicate that also a large part of the electorate of the governing group does not want to maintain these so-called. public media. That's it. Why maintain fiction? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u170	Ms Urszula Augustyn, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's talk of the media that they're the fourth power. Actually, there's an answer to the question why you're doing this. You're just funding propaganda, feeding people what you've been imagining in your heads. All you had to do was listen to Mr. Marshal of the Senate yesterday's conference, or actually listen to the questions that a public television journalist was asking - with a shoe, with arrogance, with a set thesis. It's just something outrageous, just like your stripes are outrageous. I have a question for you, Prime Minister Glinski. For the whole culture in 2018 there was a little more than PLN 4 billion in the budget. Meanwhile, with a light hand of 2 billion, which is half of this amount, you want to put on public television now. That's right, public. This adjective in Polish has different connotations. There may be public good, but you're closer to these other shrines, which I regret. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u172	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u173	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 2 billion donations, donations, whatever you call it, for the public media... I will ask immediately: Why so little? After all, these scary stripes are your priceless cultural achievements for your time. In fact, the only way to break this fatal circle, the insanity of public media information that has long lost its public mission, is to privatize all your transmitters. This is the only way to ensure that this information chaos is finally replaced by a reliable reporter's message. It seems to me that this law by the PiS group should have a different title: the privatisation of this industry of false and media contempt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u174	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poles no longer want to pay on TV PiS. They don't want to pay for lying, they don't want to pay for manipulation, they don't want to pay for propaganda, they don't want to pay for sting. They've had enough of hate that pours out of Kurski's TV studio every day. They do not want to pay either in the form of a subscription, which they have shown you unambiguously, but they do not want to pay directly from the state budget, because it is the state budget that makes up citizens, paying taxes every day. I have two questions on this occasion. Firstly, I wanted to ask the Minister whether TVP has already paid off the loan that we gave TVP from the budget in October 2017, because otherwise we can say that giving TV PiS loans is like giving loans to a pole. And my second question: I wanted to ask you how much of this money will be spent on any bribes (the bell) for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u176	Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am in favour of a reliable, public television and a reliable public radio in Poland. The kind where all views can meet and wipe out, where every political option is represented, where you can hear the truth, where you can see a high culture. Unfortunately, in exchange for the 2 billion you now want to pump into public media, we receive homophobia, contempt, hatred and exclusion. I ask you very much to know how the government intends to ensure that these 2 billion will not go to the hate and contempt industry, that these 2 billion will be spent so that we can look back proudly at TV so that we can say: the media are actually open and pluralistic, we have access to high culture and to folk culture, we have access to reliable and independent information. Then we would support spending money on reliable public media. As long as there's manipulation, rudeness and lying, it's hard to support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u178	Mr Marek Owa, Coalition Club. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u179	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! First of all, what is the government's position - not the Minister of Culture, not the Minister of Culture, but the Government's position - when there is no money to treat patients when there is no money for other major public spending? Public television - unfortunately, we are critical of its way of presenting the facts. If we open up, we turn on the TV and watch different programs, it's like there's two parallel worlds. Minister! Government position: Why is there 2 billion PLN for public television and there is not 2 billion PLN for patients? That's the general question. And until we resolve this problem, as long as patients have problems with queues, access to medicines, the money spent on such television (the bell) will be wasted money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u180	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that PLN 2 billion for public television, for public television propaganda, while in so many areas there is a lack of funding to ensure a decent level of public service whether it's just a decent life for people, it's very curious, and even, I would say, absolutely disqualifying people who make such decisions. But, Minister, I would ask you to explain how it is verified by the Ministry of Public Service by Polish Television. Does the Ministry take into account this hat that pours out of TV screens every day? The Ministry, assessing the implementation of the public service mission, among others. creating an area associated with the care of language culture, takes into account all these negative emotions, this whole language (the bell) of hatred, which is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2017, you spent additional money on TVP - 980 million, in 2019 already 1,200 million, this year you want to transfer another 2 billion PLN to propaganda by Jack Kurski entitled. The pseudoelite envy Poles New Year's Eve. This will be the biggest revenue increase recorded by TVP this year, because 104%. You say that TVP's problems are due to the fact that the government of Tusk introduced years ago the exemption from the subscription fee for the oldest Poles. If you think it was such a bad solution, then withdraw from it instead of adding more money to this bag - money that is lacking for the disabled today, is missing for teachers or for health care. Finally, the bill states that the transfer of this huge money to TVP and the Polish Radio will have positive effects on their ability to fulfil a significant cultural, social and democratic role. Please tell me how this important cultural role is filled with materials such as one vodka, two wheels and three bodyguards... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u184	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the fourth year since Jack Kurski was appointed president of public television, which was transformed into party television, PiS propaganda. At that time no one thought that we would have to pay so much for this propaganda - initially PLN 1 billion a year, and since the new term of office 2 billion a year. It's a gigantic exaggeration. I'm aware that you've put so-called officers there. a good change so that they can deliver you in this, in propagating these amazing slogans that you have been preaching here for some time, so that they may indulge the Poles to spot the Poles. What are the consequences of this, each of us can be perfectly aware. Soon we will celebrate the anniversary of the tragic situation which was in Gdańsk. Recall the role played by public television in disgusting Poles and important initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't really be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u186	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Paweł Lewandowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to Parliament for taking this difficult initiative to regulate the financial situation of public media this year, and I very much support this action. At the same time, I would like to point out that the number of questions raised during this debate, however, is addressed to the regulator, i.e. the National Radio and Television Council. When it comes to the enforcement of public service missions or management in general, these are questions primarily to President Jack Kurski. I am convinced that you can also get answers to such questions by means of interpellation or parliamentary enquiries. As regards the general issues relating to the decline in television ratings, I would like to point out that this is a global trend that applies to all television stations - also in Poland all major television stations. People move to the Internet and therefore public television and public media develop VOD services, online, so that we can also reach those who do not use TV on a daily basis, but use public media on the Internet. Polish Radio radio stations, Polish regional radio stations, Polish Press Agency services are also available on the Internet. So that these tasks will, I believe, be financed by the measures proposed by Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in a moment. I'm declaring a few minutes' break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 57 hrs. 14 min 20]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. Please take your seats. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The question was asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Mr President, one minute. [[Game in the O.R.]] Sir, please... I'm waiting for the room to calm down. The Member is waiting for the room to calm down, so please calm down. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a very simple, basic question addressed to the ruling party and the government. Don't you find it extremely immoral, sounding like ridicule, deciding to double the funds for an institution that I will no longer tell you about in the debate, making such a decision on the anniversary of the death of President Paweł Adamowicz... What does that have to do with anything? Oh! ...to which the deaths of this kind of hatred and the attacks that public television has carried out have contributed to a considerable extent. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Some of the MPs are hitting the desks. How can you do this in your consciences? Something like that! It's outrageous what you're saying. You should be ashamed of what you're saying. You've said goodbye to morality a long time ago, unfortunately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir. The question will also be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. Mr President, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u191	God bless you! God bless you! Well, it's a good time and a bad time. Ladies and gentlemen! The regime's television, called for deceiving the public opponent, is, as you know, a bottomless well. I know something about it as a director who has never been involved with such institutions or at all, but has been in these areas. I know it's on the street. Voronica and the square of the Insurgents can burn out any amount, any amount of money. That's how you do it. Bravo! Ladies and gentlemen! Carthage should be destroyed. The question is: When will the Sejm of the Republic of Poland take this bull by the horns? Let's at least stop being hypocritical. Let's call it Power TV. Power TV. Let it be clear that you decide what is the message, or you, when you return to this integrated system of access to the trough, and then there will be less hypocrisy (the bell) in public life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u192	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL-Kukiz15. Please, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u193	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I have a few questions for Members of the applicants. Aren't you ashamed... Don't be embarrassed. ...that for 4 years on the so-called.. Have you spent half as much as you're planning on spending on public television? How much good could you do for seniors, sick people, needing drugs, if instead of this TV, this money was spent on free drugs, to expand this list? Aren't you ashamed that in your program you're promising $2 billion to upgrade hospitals for the next four years, as much as you're about to transfer to public television? Aren't you ashamed that as part of your national oncology strategy for research into new drugs to combat civilizational disease, cancer... Louder. You're going to spend $100 million, so 20 times less on public television? Shame on you, shame on you, because the 2 billion you want to spend on TV, in this program (the bell) you didn't write down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u194	Thank you, sir. The question is also asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Lewis. There you go. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna talk about shame because you don't have shame. I would like to ask a question to Minister Gliński. Minister, aren't you disgusted by the heythings, the slanders, the crusade of accusations we have on public television every day? No. Don't you hate what public television has done to the murdered President Adamowicz? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What did she do? Aren't you disgusted by the slanders that are now being carried out in Professor Grodzki's house day after day? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ooh... Don't you hate what public television does to every person in the opposition? You don't disgust me? [[Applause]] And you want blood on your hands, you want a second murder? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Oh... Jesus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u196	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the justification of the project, the need for a law is due to the lack of adequate, stable, predictable and long-term public funding of public media in Poland. According to the project this year, i.e. 2020, public radio and television units will be provided with fiscal securities of a value of PLN 1950 million. On what basis was such a horrendously high amount of alleged compensation for public media calculated? Please provide specific data that would indicate a loss and loss of income at such a high level. What are public media planning to use so much money for? In addition, why is such a huge grant to public media to be provided once again under the parliamentary draft law? A year ago, we had a similar situation. Moreover, compared to last year, the amount of grants increases by another 700 million PLN. Why is there such a big difference compared to 2019? In addition, the question must be asked what the government is going to do to finally create adequate, stable, predictable and long-term public funding for public media in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u198	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 97 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's not working. It's not working. What's not working? Who doesn't it work with? We'll see about that. It doesn't work there. Is it working, ladies and gentlemen? Again. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Does it work? Wait a minute. Okay, just a second. He took out the card, so how is it supposed to work? Thank you. 440 Members voted. For - 214, 226 - against, no one held back. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined on 8 January this year. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. I hear opposition, and I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We therefore proceed with the vote on this proposal. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be examined on 8 January this year will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 226 was in favour of, against - 213, 1 abstention. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The Council of Ministers has tabled amendments to government draft laws: budget for 2020, print 112-A, as well as specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2020, print 113-A. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 27 hours 14 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 5 and 6 of the agenda: I ask the Minister of Finance of Tadeusz Kościński to present the reasons for both draft laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft budget law for 2020, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2019. This year's budget is record-breaking in many respects. This is the first sustainable budget after 1990. We achieved this by sealing the tax system and restoring tax revenue. This budget reflects the government's priorities to ensure the sustainability of public finances while supporting economic growth and the implementation of active family and social policies. This budget takes into account two seemingly opposite objectives that the State has to meet: on the one hand, it ensures the security of public finances and on the other hand it meets the requirements and obligations that the State has towards its citizens. The Council of Ministers in June 2019 adopted the assumptions for the draft state budget for the current year and then in September. It adopted the draft budget law and submitted it to the Sejm within the statutory deadline. As a result of the new term of office of the Sejm, a new draft budget had to be submitted. The bill, which I hope will be the subject of a substantive and substantive parliamentary debate, takes into account the necessary modifications to the September version, made mainly on the income and expenditure side. The 2020 budget meets the fiscal rules of the Public Finance Act and respects the reference values for the nominal deficit and government debt. Effective measures and efforts on the income side of the budget have sealed the tax system and rebuilt tax revenue. They also allowed a balanced budget to be drawn up in a country where all expenditure is covered by its record revenues. The sustainability of the budget will be fostered by the structure of economic growth which is beneficial for tax revenue, in particular indirect taxation. However, this would not have been possible without comprehensive action on the part of the State's income budget, focused on the recovery of tax revenues and the fight against tax crime. At the same time, solutions and facilitations are being put in place for the benefit of all honest taxpayers, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We are forecasting that this year PLN 196.5 billion in value added tax for goods and services and PLN 42 billion for corporate tax will be added to the state budget. This is an increase of about 60% achieved in just less than 5 years. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the state budget, and in particular the balanced budget, is not and cannot be an end in itself. It is not created only for indicators. When analysing the 2020 budget, its design and construction, we must not forget the role that the state has to fulfil in today's market economy. Today's country should perform at least three important economic functions. It should increase efficiency, among others. by promoting competition and providing public goods. It should support justice understood as applying taxes and dedicated expenditure for redistribution of income to vulnerable groups of the population, ranging from people at risk of social exclusion to the family as such. The family is the smallest, but at the same time one of the most important social groups, which performs a number of key functions for the maintenance of each society. The last but not least important role that you have to play in today's market economy is to promote macroeconomic stability and growth and the economy. This is achieved, among others. by taking action to reduce unemployment and stimulate growth through the available fiscal policy measures. I mean, for example. Tax and tax incentives for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises whose strength will determine the innovation of the entire Polish economy and its ability to compete internationally. The directions for economic development of Poland for the coming years are indicated by the Strategy for responsible development. It calls for an economic development model based on inclusive, socially and territorially sustainable growth. Its main objective is to create the conditions for increasing the income of Polish residents while increasing cohesion in the social, economic, environmental and territorial dimensions. Government-friendly growth-friendly fiscal policies are part of the strategy. The 2020 budget is therefore an element and carrier of the government's economic and social development strategy of Poland, i.e. economic growth, which serves society as a whole. I am convinced that the draft budget for 2020 finds such a safe balance, a balance between the sustainability of public finances and the needs and expectations of society. So far, a policy aimed at maintaining such a balance has been successful and has brought tangible, good results. The draft budget presented for 2020 is based on macroeconomic indicators unchanged from the September project, including growth of gross domestic product and inflation. From the point of view of the situation of public finances and the state budget this year, the key is the dynamics of nominal GDP, which, despite the potentially lower rate of real GDP growth and inflation higher than assumed, should not be lower than the explanatory memorandum of the draft budget law. We have taken a relatively conservative approach to the development of nominal growth rates of average wages in the national economy, including in the business sector. Current forecasts indicate that nominal wage increases may be higher, to the extent that they should ensure at least the achievement of the actual wage increases adopted in the explanatory memorandum of the draft budget law for 2020 even if inflation is above 2.5%. In addition, payments should be supported for the dynamic growth of real income at the disposal of households, among others. Thirteenth pension under the "Emerity+' programme and extension of the "500+' programme to the first child. In this context, farm consumption in this year should be a major factor in economic growth. To discuss the basic budgetary parameters, it should be stressed that this is a project with the highest projected total government revenue in history, including the highest tax revenues. This allowed for the construction of a budget in which all expenditure is financed by its revenue, without the need for additional commitments. The draft budget law for 2020 forecasts revenue and expenditure of the state budget at the level of PLN 435.3 billion. It is therefore expected that no government budget deficit will occur at 31 December 2020. At the same time, the deficit of public finances calculated according to the EU methodology is forecast at 1.2% GDP. This is significantly below the reference value for the nominal deficit of the government and local government sector, which is 3% GDP. The nominal government debt is expected to increase by PLN 46.1 billion in 2020 to PLN 1 trillion, PLN 39 billion, 800 million. The debt-to-GDP ratio, which is the most meaningful parameter in this area, will decrease to 43.8%. GDP of 44.4% Last year. Together with the Budget Act of the High House, a draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Law for 2020 has been submitted. This project forms an integral part of the solutions adopted in the draft budget. It defines, among other things, the following: the basis for the calculation of social funds, which is another step towards the full frostbite of social benefit funds. The remuneration of managers of state positions is to be frozen. The project also introduces solutions that allow for flexible management of public funds, giving the possibility to finance specific tasks from State-owned special-purpose funds. In addition, the continuity of the system of support for the remuneration of district labour offices by means of the Labour Fund is foreseen. The project also provides for a number of actions which allow for more effective implementation in the current year of tasks of entities such as the State Water Farm of Poland or the National Property Resources. The project also envisages changes which involve shifting excise duty rates to a fuel levy in 2020. Thus, the proposed changes will increase the revenue from the fuel levy and increase the resources of the National Road Fund and the Railway Fund, which will enable more investments to be made. This change will not affect the increase in fuel prices. High Seym! The draft budget law for 2020 is a project that guarantees the stability and security of public finances and at the same time supports those who need it. It is a budget that is rational, cost-effective, undisciplined with social sensitivity, which in parallel supports the potential of our economy. The sustainability of the state budget, which is the core of public finances, while at the same time the low deficit of the whole public finance sector shows fiscal discipline and guarantees low costs for the service of public debt. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Please accept the State budget for 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u200	The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 117 and 9 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u201	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour, but also the great pleasure of presenting to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft budget law for 2020. It is a budget, you will grant it, a unique one. Well, that's a fact. Special... After a detailed presentation of the budget by the Minister of Finance, this budget can be described as unique, sensational. Moravian hole. Moravian hole. For the first time, it is a balanced budget, which has not been for decades. The budget is not only balanced, because it could even be considered that this can be done, i.e. expenditure coincides with revenue, it could be imagined that expenditure can be reduced very consistently, but here it is the opposite: an ambitious spending policy is being implemented consistently. For example, social expenditure exceeds PLN 66 billion. Social... It's 3.5 times more than that. in the years 2013-2014. 3.5 times more, I would like to emphasise. Socialism grows stronger. The budget includes, let me remind you, programs that people couldn't even dream of then... How many taxes... ... e.g. financing of the 500+ programme for each child. Even in the election campaign we did not assume such optimistic solutions, then we talked about the second and the next. More than PLN 40 billion is spent on this purpose. And there's no more babies to be born. The budget includes a special allowance for persons with disabilities of PLN 500 per month and a higher amount of care and care allowance. Includes pensions for mothers who have raised at least four children. Includes PLN 300 per school trip for children and young people. It also includes payment of one-off benefits of 4 000. zł within the framework of the Life Programme. It also includes a high-quality pension, especially for pensioners who receive the lowest benefits, the benefit of a pension of 3,24% , but most importantly, amounting to not less than 70 PLN - I will remind the Prime Minister about the valorization of pensions, as at that time 8 PLN was raised on average, this amount is incomparable at all - and the simultaneous increase of the lowest pension to 1200 PLN. It also includes funding for free medicines and medical services for people aged 75 years or over. It includes the implementation of the "Senior+" programme. As far as most of these programs are concerned, they weren't mentioned a few years ago. It is therefore very clear that this budget has a very ambitious spending policy, and it is not a balanced budget in terms of cutting expenditure. This level of expenditure, especially social expenditure, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki called it aptly - I like it very much - a dignified revolution, because it is a dignified revolution for those Poles who have been abused for many years in terms of their financial status, because it just allows Polish families, pensioners, disabled people to live with dignity, and so all those social groups whose needs have previously remained unnoticed, and now they are noticed, but above all, satisfied. The expenditure of the 2020 budget is, of course, not only social needs, although they are very important, but also spending on other equally important tasks has been foreseen. National defence funds are being increased next year. This time more than PLN 5 billion was planned than last year, i.e. in 2019, although this year's defence expenditure was so much higher than 2%. GDP. These expenses, worth emphasising, represent a particularly important investment in our security in this troubled world. It is precisely in such a situation that, at the beginning of the Sejm meeting today, it is extremely important that our government's approach to national defence expenditure - unlike many European countries - confirms our allies with NATO, especially the United States, that we are a trustworthy partner, an important ally, and the continued presence of American troops in the Republic of Poland is the best proof of this and of course a guarantee of our security. Without such a budgetary approach to the financing of national defence, our security would probably be difficult to implement to this extent. But budget expenditure for 2020 also provides funding for multi-annual modernisation programmes: Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department, Prison Service. This is, of course, a continuation of the programmes that have been adopted in previous years. And another very important thing: the 2020 budget envisages an increase in salaries in the state budget area by an average of 6%. This is a record increase, especially important after years of blocking these increases, freezing - it was called differently. So here this employee group is noticed, too, in a significant way. The budget also provides for a significant increase in spending on higher education and science. It also provides this budget for housing, road and rail infrastructure. Open roads and the construction and modernisation of railway lines are an excellent example of this. This includes not only national roads, but also very important funding for the construction and modernisation of local roads by the Local Roads Fund. For the first time in such a financial scale, local governments can benefit from it, and with funding well above 50% , because sometimes 50% is a barrier to self-government. The funding and support for the development of passenger transport or, for example, the financing of the "Bridges for the Regions" programme is also important items, which may already be smaller but also extremely important in society. This funding also covers many years of infrastructure investments, such as the construction of a waterway linking Vistula Zalev to Gdansk Bay. These are only some expenditure items of the budget, in which the total amount of expenditure was planned for over PLN 495 billion, of course also revenue. I remember the discussions that were held during the election campaign in 2015. At that time, the Law and Justice presented the most important points of their programme, such as 500+, family support or a reduction in the retirement age. What did we hear from the rulers then? There's no money for that, and there won't be. Ay, don't be ridiculous. That's what they said. Context, context. I can quote, even run the 2015 press conferences, when the 2013 budget was the basis for this analysis. Then we could compare it. Embarrassing, embarrassing. We said the money was there, only we need to get it back from the VAT mob. Yeah, just don't steal. We need to start collecting honestly to the state budget, not to private pockets. Banasi needs to be told. At the time, I took part in this discussion by examining the implementation of the 2013 budget. And what was this budget implementation like back then? It is worth remembering, because some have already forgotten that there were such years 2013, 2014, yes, were. What was the state of public finances then? This is a trace of the way we've gone since then. In fact, this allows for such a more detailed analysis of the financial policy of the rule of law and justice, both the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I think that this comparison is useful and even necessary, because then you can actually see a huge difference in favour of the present state. Only thanks to this comparison can Poles confirm that in recent parliamentary elections they have made a good decision for the future of Poland, entrusting the rule of law and justice and coalition parties of the United Right. Let's take a look at some numbers. In 2013, revenues amounted to PLN 279 billion and were, of course, significantly lower even compared to the original financial plan, as tax revenues were becoming lower from year to year. They were lower than income in 2012 despite nominal growth GDP by 2.5%. Revenue should increase even by nominal growth. The difference between the revenue schedule and the actual implementation in 2013... was dramatic. In September the discrepancy was already over 13 billion PLN, of course to the detriment. At that time, the 2013 budget was revised in order to make this revenue more realistic at the end of the year in relation to the plan. Of course, it didn't come from that influence. But what was the result? First of all, due to the low implementation of VAT and CIT income. The Supreme Audit Chamber, in its assessment of the 2013 budget, stated, quote: the tendency of entrepreneurs to comply with tax obligations has decreased and the effectiveness of tax enforcement has been reduced. The Supreme Audit Chamber also assessed that the negative impact on income had on the failure to comply with tax law in the following years. The obvious consequence was the deficit of the state budget, then over PLN 42 billion. There was a further increase in public debt and by the end of 2013 the public debt was already PLN 882 billion. Did you hear anything about the financial crisis or nothing? The financial propaganda has covered everything up. These amounts would certainly have been much higher if it had not been for the early transfer of funds from the OFE. It would be... But you're lying. We moved the funds back in 2014... That's it. All of this has happened, although since 2009. Poland was subject to an excessive deficit procedure, which indicated that we had to go down with a deficit below 3% GDP. And what was the realization? Exactly. In 2012, the deficit is 3.9% compared to GDP and increased to 4.3% in 2013 GDP. The government debt-to-GDP ratio rose again by a further 1.3 percentage point to 53.9%. This was the fourth year in a row when the debt-to-GDP ratio exceeded 50% , the first prudential threshold, which resulted from the Public Finance Act. This is probably why this provision was suspended in the Public Finance Act in July 2013, because it is better to break the thermometer than to see it show fever and disease. But we've introduced other thresholds. Rule. The unemployment rate was 2 000 158 000 at the time, the unemployment rate was 13.4% but in the regions it was very different, at least almost 22% in Warmia-Mazury. And then no one spent money on 500+, and the retirement age was 67 years. But you're lying. So this shows how huge we've come, because it's not only that there weren't those expenses that we're talking about today, it's still a huge deficit. And what is the 2020 budget? Yeah, we have that kind of expense, and we don't have a deficit. I know it might not fit in your head, but it really is, and that's the advantage of this budget. I remind you of this, I remind you of these numbers, although they seem quite abstract at the moment, but they show exactly what way to improve the financial economy we have been going since 2013. This is not such a distant time, it is only 6 years back, but it is worth reminding, because the 2020 budget is already a reflection of a completely different reality. It is a balanced budget and I stress - because it has already been said here - it is not an accounting procedure, but it is a forecast based on very real, I would even say: careful, assumptions. And saying it's an accountant procedure isn't gonna help, because we're not gonna cheat the numbers, and if there's money behind the numbers, there's no change. GDP growth in this 2020 budget was adopted at 3.7% , but a performance of 4% is foreseen for 2019 So you can see the caution in planning. The main growth factor will be domestic demand, mainly private consumption. This is, among other things. the effect of those social transfers I mentioned earlier. Importantly, domestic consumption, private consumption, is the most resistant factor to the potential fluctuations in the international economy. If we were to estimate growth, GDP only on the basis of international conditions, we can actually be exposed to fluctuations. On the other hand, if private consumption is a key factor, domestic consumption, such fluctuations need not be feared. So you can see that such high economic growth is not a coincidence, but a very wise result. and at the same time responsible economic policy of the Government of Law and Justice. Another effect of such a policy is the reduction of the unemployment rate to the planned level of 5.1% at the end of 2020 according to these budgetary assumptions. Let us remember almost three times the unemployment rate in 2013. There is also a nominal increase in average wages in the national economy of 6%. of course, which is also an absolutely real indicator, given the government's decision to raise the minimum wage for work, the decision to increase wages in the budgetary sphere, and yet a very absorbent labour market is imposed on it, which is an incentive to increase wages. Personally, I think that this indicator will be implemented in due course, but this is another margin of security for planning this budget. It can be seen that these basic budgetary indicators for the implementation of this budget are not at risk, and the continued consistent sealing of the tax system provides a guarantee for the achievement of revenue at an appropriate level, not by raising taxes, but, on the contrary, by lowering them. Because we must also remember that 2020 will be the year of the reduced PIT tax, this basic rate, to 17%. And the introduction of 10 others. No shouting will change anything here. The PIT tax has been reduced to 17%. That's a fact. This bill has already been passed. Also exempting young people from PIT tax or, already here segments, lowering CIT tax mainly for small entrepreneurs, but also reducing ZUS contributions for small companies. The relevant laws were adopted. However, despite the reduction of these taxes, economic prosperity and smart governance lead to the fact that these revenues will amount to just over PLN 495 billion and will be equal to expenditure. Of course, tax revenue is the main revenue item. You speak longer than the Minister. The club has 117 minutes, so I'm trying to use it. Do you have any pain? The main position of tax revenue is the tax on goods and services. And this is PLN 196 billion. But it all hurts. This is the position that really determines our plans, our intentions and the effects of this budget. Because if I remind you of 113 billion realised in 2013, we have 83 billion PLN more. So while we're adding taxes on PIT, CIT, we've got the stuff we're after. So there's more than 60 billion for social spending, and there's a deficit that was 40 billion at the time. It's all right. The natural consequence of such an excellent, sustainable budget for 2020 will, of course, be a reduction in public debt compared to GDP to 42.6%. I'll remind you, over there... 43.8%. But it's to a different extent - public debt. Let me remind you, this will be 11 percentage points less than it was in 2013. Yeah, 11 percentage points less. What about OFE? 7% It was OFE. So, according to this comparison of 2013's budget with the current draft budget, for 2020, we have made a huge leap forward. You're trying to figure it out. The government proposes a responsible, though - I admit - historical, because without deficit, budget. In the subsequent speeches of the club's representatives, Law and Justice will be further approximated in detail the expenditure of the most important parts of the budget, the public debt will be discussed, but already from this brief analysis it appears that this sustainable budget for 2020 is absolutely acceptable. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the High House adopt a budget so favourable to Poland and Poles for 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u202	Thank you. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, Mr. Kowalczyk's extremely unfair speech... [[Applause]] Oh, my God! ...I think we need to lower the veil of silence. If anybody has any idea of finance, economics, economics, it must have been red to listen to you, Minister, really. That's hypocritical. Don't lecture me, Member. Our country's budget for 2020 is as balanced as the judges under a restrictive and repressive law are unreserved. That's exactly what it is. [[Applause]] The basic deficit in this state budget is the truth deficit. The truth is, in fact, a scarce commodity in the PiS government. I think that's why Prime Minister Morawiecki didn't present the budget. He did it every year. This year he was supposed to be balanced, and the Prime Minister wasn't. No one can match you in a lie. As in the Law on Courts, you trampled on the Constitution, so in this Budget Act you trampled on all rules, standards, rules in public finances. Prime Minister Morawiecki announced the success of the sustainable budget. The problem is that Prime Minister Morawiecki can unfortunately lie to the High House and, unfortunately, may lie to citizens, but he will not lie to the European Commission. Economists, considering the country's finances, do not take account of the budget at all. They're looking at the public finance sector. After all, Poland is not just prime ministers and ministers. Poland is also children in schools where ill-paid teachers teach. Poland is also sick, who are in debt hospitals and cannot wait for modern chemotherapy or rapid coronarography. Poland is also pensioners deceived in November by Prime Minister Sasin, who told them that the electricity would not go down. Poland is finally people with disabilities to whom you gave the Solidarity Fund, like a fig leaf, which was supposed to cover the wickedness of the PiS government - but even this fig leaf you took away from them. Finally, Poland is the local governments deceived by the PiS government into billions of zlotys. Poland is also cheated teachers and deceived doctors, mainly resident doctors. This is Poland. Poland, which you pushed out of the budget, so it is balanced for you. Do you really have the audacity to say that you have a balanced budget, and to announce It's like some good news? Why, evil? It's not true. So what's the truth about this budget? It doesn't have the resources for important public services... Nothing. ...which provide basic security for citizens, yet true, structural, i.e. cleared of all manipulations and tricks, the deficit of the public finance sector in 2020 amounts to PLN 52 billion. This is the true deficit of the Polish state in 2020. Because, let me repeat, the state is not just a budget, the state is not just a prime minister and a government, and the ministers of the PiS. Then count the debt. How can we tell fairy tales about a balanced budget and not mention that you pushed 28.5 billion zlotys out of the budget this year? The deficit of truth in this 2020 budget is also called. one-off, one-off income, which won't happen again next year. Minister Kowalczyk did not mention that PLN 17.5 billion of the OFE racket, because you took away their pension savings from people, introduced them into the FUS, which allowed you to reduce subsidies for this FUS. You've pushed it out of the budget again. You are lucky once a year because you will steal from Poles, but in 2021 you will not steal the same money again. This one-off income is PLN 24 billion. How do we add these two amounts: 28,5 billions spent outside the budget, but the necessary expenditure of the sector and 24 billion disposable expenditure, that is 2,2% GDP. This is the real sector deficit. This is what the European Commission will account for. The Union will check. What does that mean in the long run? You were talking about the excessive deficit procedure. Think about it. As at the peak after 4 years of great economic prosperity, we have a sector deficit of 2,2%, in fact. GDP, what will it be like when the state has to stimulate the economy, to support entrepreneurs more than today? Think about it. We will not really cross, Poland will not exceed 3% GDP? Isn't there going to be another excessive deficit procedure? No, because you're not gonna rule. It takes a gesture, my dears, to increase the deficit of the sector between September and December by PLN 21 billion. This is the main sin of this budget, but not the only one. Another sin is that the Minister of Finance, sitting here, did not update the macroeconomic parameters at all, although it was obvious that the whole world had done so. These parameters are the same as in April 2019. As far as dynamics are concerned, you have left GDP at 3.7%. GDP. We're very happy to be developing quite decently. Consumption will continue to be decent, and it also drives GDP dynamics for several years, everything is fine. But there's something wrong with the VAT, Minister. You were talking about the seal, but something's wrong with you. Seven billion more than you. So, what's up? If this is not the case, please tell the Minister of Finance why between September and December he reduced the expected VAT execution of 2019 by PLN 3.5 billion. This also caused that he had to reduce the VAT execution by PLN 3.6 billion, which you planned to take in September. Already in December, you knew you'd take less VAT. But it's not over 'cause you guys put a weird thing in there. This is the 2019 VAT you really collected. The growth dynamics were 4 percent. That means you're getting bigger. Where is Mr Horal? Instead of building airports, let him handle the VAT gap, because in 2019 you grew. You do not pay any attention to this and for 2020 you have planned that, despite the lower growth rate of VAT growth in 2019, the dynamics in 2020 will be twice as high. VAT will be higher, dynamics will increase by 8%. How are you gonna do it, like GDP, you planned it yourself, it's gonna grow a little less? I think that pale fear should be on the entrepreneurs, because the letters that were sent to the directors of the IRS to cut very close to the skin of the entrepreneurs, I think you sent it on December 6th last year. I think there's gonna be a lot more letters like that. Painting grass green isn't just putting money out of the budget, it's also taking it a little further than a stabilizing spending rule. When we changed the thresholds, we introduced a rule that you destroy and dismantle. In fact, the 13th pension will again be paid out by the Solidarity Fund. Minister Robaczyński! As a matter of fact... Yeah, because you're responsible for the budget. As a matter of fact, I propose that this so-called one. The 13th pension was paid by the Polish Academy of Sciences. She's out of stabilizing spending rules, too. What difference does it make? I think it was really about who's gonna give anybody anything just to not see it in the budget. The stabilizing rule and what you are doing with it will be said more by Prof. Rosati, about taxes - Mr Janusz Silchoń. But the next macroeconomic parameter, which should be important for the Minister of Finance, is inflation. Here the whole world has adjusted upwards. GUS reported: 3.4% December. What are you doing? You're holding on to 2.5%. Because you can always hug another 2 billion or more income. After all, like every Kowalski goes to the store, he'll leave more VAT. And finally a few miracles on the Vistula River, which happened just in December. Well, you've had a wonderful increase in your income. Some fell from the sky, or rather from the ceiling. For example, a party colleague from the National Bank of Poland, President of Glapiński, gave you PLN 7.2 billion as a gift. Is that bad? Perhaps it would have been good, Mr President, if it had not been for the first time that no one knew whether this profit would be, secondly, no one knew what it would be, and thirdly, the Monetary Policy Council had to change the rules so that you could be paid that profit, because it should not have been paid this year. But this is the rule and standard of NBP presidents from the PiS who help their governments. There is a provision in the Budget Act, which is called: cross-border schemes. Minister Kowalczyk made a serious face, I think he knows what that means. Minister, explain to us how it is possible that in September you thought you would have 700 million from this seal in terms of these cross-border schemes, and in December you have 1600 million? And a sugar excise and a monkey excise. The Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance couldn't get along here. The Minister of Health said that once we introduce this tax, people will not eat these very bad, unhealthy chemicals. The finance minister thought otherwise, because he saved nearly PLN 3 billion in the budget. And finally, unfortunately, apart from those numbers from the ceiling that refer to income, we also have some hard numbers that relate to expenditure, and here it is not so good. The paradox of the failure of PiS governments is that you spend less on education and health than we spent on you than the PO-PSL government spit on you. That's interesting. Yeah, that's right. Minister, I'll tell you. The educational part of the subsidy given to local governments in relation to GDP in your time is lower. In 2015, it represented 2,24% GDP, this is only supposed to be 2.1% in 2020 GDP. Will the quality of education be higher or lower, Minister? Why don't you give me the amount? It's the same with health. GDP is higher. Health from the state budget - I'm not talking about the NFZ, because the contribution was, is and will be - we gave 0.51% GDP. Very little. And what do you want to do in 2020? 0.49%. How embarrassing are you? This is how public services are financed in a country governed by the PiS. Attention - 2020 budget is a budget for rich people. You have to have the money to pay for the doctor in private, for the education of your children, so that you can afford to shop, more and more expensive. Poor man's gonna get worse. The worst will be a pensioner and he will feel his poverty more and more, which - attention at the end - during this honey and milk time of PiS rule unfortunately grows. Poverty in Poland is growing, and in our day it has been decreasing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u204	Thank you very much, Member. And please - Mr Vladimir Czarzasty, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for presenting the budget. Besides, you have done it in a very brilliant and fantastic way, but you will allow me to refer to the words of the Prime Minister, who presented this budget to us this morning, and to the Left a dozen times, so I will speak to him, and I hope that he will hear it someday, because it is an important matter - the country's budget. Prime Minister! In presenting the budget, once again, you are missing the truth. Four years ago, you became famous for your PowerPoint presentation, your strategy for responsible development. There were supposed to be shipyards, luxtorpeds, hundreds of thousands of apartments and electric cars. We were about to catch up with Germany when it came to prosperity. Today it comes out what it was really like. Very recently, a few weeks ago, we sat in this room and listened again to the festival of beautiful and great promises in your exposé, and many were the same as in your first exposé 2 years earlier. And what happened to them, Prime Minister? Where'd they go? Because when I look at this budget, I see mainly shortcomings and failure to keep promises, lack of resources for the most pressing needs of Poles and Poles, as well as lack of answers to the biggest problems facing Poland, even though you promised to solve these problems. For months you've been accusing us of telling stories about a balanced budget, bragging about it every step of the way. Great. So let's see what your country's balanced budget looks like. Will the balanced budget address the basic problems of Poles? What do people in a balanced budget have? Is there a hidden deficit in this balanced budget? Let's talk substantively and about concrete issues that are fundamental to Poles and Poles. First of all, apartments. There's nowhere to live in your country's sustainable budget. Prices for 1 m2. They're astronomical. There are municipal resources. At least 200,000 are missing. places in daycare. Are you afraid of women in the labour market? Unnecessary, women in Poland are better educated than men and work more. Are we gonna do something about daycare or are we gonna take our kids to a sustainable budget? You also saved up on health care. Last year it died, it surprises you, in Poland most people since World War II, e.g. In line at the S.O.R., in line with a specialist. This is clearly your record. Queues to a specialist have increased by an average of a month during your reigns. It's not just the elderly who die. I don't know if you know it takes a year for a child cardiologist to wait. Poland under the rule of Prime Minister Morawiecki is more than 300 hospital units closed in several months. Hospitals are indebted to PLN 14 billion. Prime Minister, I have a simple question: Which of the items in your budget will guarantee that next year we will be able to stop shutting down our troops? Your balanced budget is a collapse in health care, and above all the suffering and premature death of people. You're saying it's a local government problem, and local governments are in another country? Isn't your government responsible for local Poland, Prime Minister? A balanced budget will cure us? Here's another thing. Where's the public transport money, the trains and the pekaes you promised? 14 million people in our country are excluded, they cannot reach a larger city. We're wasting their potential, and they're wasting their time, spending hours on next shifts. Are we gonna do something about it? 'Cause if so, where's the money for the calls? Are we going to commute to work and school with a balanced budget? Ridiculous, absurd. I'm gonna tell you something, but I know there's a rule that you don't have to talk about when someone says something during a speech. What absurdity? 14 million doesn't make it to work. Do you know what that means? Are you driving your car? Do you have a driver? And there are people, 14 million who don't have access to communication. This is the world. [[Applause]] Bravo! You have also dedicated only small amounts to environmental protection, energy modernisation and the transition to green energy. At the climate summit, you are embarrassing Poland by telling some 19th-century bubble. [[Applause]] Every year, Poland suffers droughts, winds, we have an increase in food prices, power outages, our air is one of the most polluted in the world. What are you guys You buy piles of coal from Putin, and this money goes on rockets aimed at Poland and anti-Polish propaganda of Russia. Bravo! Bravo! [[Applause]] Bravo! It's absurd. Will you, Prime Minister, breathe a balanced budget? You can do that. But my granddaughter doesn't. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the sad truth. She was right, a Member of the Civic Platform. This balanced budget is just another bullshit, bullshit. Prime Minister Morawiecki balanced him with the accounting tricks he learned in banking. You changed the rules for creating a reserve for NBP exchange rate risks, pushed spending on local governments. You boast of a balanced budget, and local government officials must cut investment. Education subsidies are enough for cities to spend half their education expenses. This is the case with President Beata Moskal-Slaniewska in Świdnica, for example. By lowering PIT, you took PLN 4.5 billion from local governments. You're about to convince us how the budgets of the cities are growing in your time of government. I'll tell you, they're growing because local governments are paying for 500+. The money flows from the state budget and flows into citizens' accounts. But local governments don't get enough money for investments or schools. These are accounting tricks. 1%. To cover some holes, you dig some holes somewhere else. [[Applause]] And only on paper does it all match up. In Excel, everything is right, but life is neither Excel nor PowerPoint, Prime Minister. Please stand up for a moment from the computer and see what the real world looks like, how people live in Poland. For lack of deficit, Prime Minister, bankers' colleagues, your colleagues, will raise toasts with champagne, but patients, pensioners, young people waiting for an apartment or nursery will curse you. Instead of building a state of prosperity, Minister, you have abdicated on the mission of solving real social problems. What do people in a balanced budget have because the Prime Minister has an award, a Jark award? And I'll talk about that in a minute. Today, this list of unfinished business, unfulfilled promises this year is a little over 60 billion, and these are just the things I mentioned. This is your budget hole. This is your budget hole in your balanced budget. This is a real social deficit of the PiS government in 2020 - 60 billion. You haven't even touched the pension system. To patch up pension budgets, you shamelessly reach for money for people with disabilities. You either retire 13 or you don't. You're very kind. That's very kind of you. You're giving me an earring. By the way, I respect Mr. Kaczyński, but, Mr. President, doesn't that offend you that someone's giving you an earring? I'll tell you what it's like to give me an earring. I mean, get up in the morning, go to work, make money, make billions of dollars, and give people away for retirement. It's an earring. You're giving away our money and pension money because retired people pay their taxes on pensions. PSL's request to abolish these taxes is correct. [[Applause]] They lose teachers and all budget workers, residents doctors, court workers, officials, they live for their grandfather's wages for your governments of sustainable development. Where are the pensions? But let's be honest, there are places in Poland where expenditure grows like on yeast. The Prime Minister's office in 2016 had a budget of PLN 154 million. In 2020 you entered yourself, Prime Minister, PLN 278 million. The average salary in your firm is PLN 9668 and PLN 69. I'm sure you can't call these pay-offs grandpa's. Tell that to the pensioners, tell that to the young people, tell them it is. [[Applause]] Extreme poverty is growing in Poland. Now we have $420,000. Extremely poor people more than in 2017 This is PiS-owska justice: about 420 thousand. Extremely poor people more than in 2017 It's as if in extreme poverty all of Szczecin began to live every year. Children in extreme poverty have arrived 90,000. Do you know that? Despite the 500+ program. Do you know about this, or do we read other statistics, or government statistics? Ladies and gentlemen, wage increases and benefits are being eaten by inflation. An hour ago, inflation was announced for the previous year: 3.4%. Bills are growing. Poles will pay more this year for electricity by a dozen percent. Did you know that 4 hours ago it was announced that food in Poland was used by 7% ? You're proud of tax cuts, but you're lowering where you're comfortable, and you still haven't fulfilled your promise to lower VAT. It's a tax mostly for the poorest. You still make the poorest pay more for their daily shopping. Where is the increase in the tax-free amount in all this? That's what you promised. You don't have hospitals, daycares and pensions. Well, let's see what you got, Minister. Let's see what you spend your money on. You spend money on what strengthens your PiS power, you spend that money on the Church. In total, according to our information, you pay 8 billion a year for the political support of bishops. 8 billion zlotys a year. It's the only money you'd build $1,000 for. crèches per year or 12 specialised hospitals. [[Applause]] But you hospitals prefer to close. Incidentally, when will Mr Protasiewicz representing PSL finally receive an answer to his inquiry on the transparency of the Church's funding? He asked that question two years ago. You spend on propaganda. Television will receive 2 billion subscription compensation alone this year. On the IPN, i.e. the masters of writing history in their own way, you spend five times more than on the Polish Academy of Sciences. Five times more than at the Polish Academy of Sciences. For useless, this is a cool thesis, the Army of Territorial Defence, most of the nationals running in the woods with a rifle for Macierewicz's joy, you spend more than for intelligence and military counterintelligence combined, i.e. people who are really important for our security. Iran, Iraq. You'll send the Territorial Defense Forces to Iran, Iraq? You don't even know what's going on out there. But maybe no one in the interview wants to work. I'm not surprised, 'cause it's probably not gonna be a while, and somebody's gonna blow the whistle again and put all the agents at risk. You will spend over 30 billion in total on the world's most expensive and unnecessary F-35 assault planes in the coming years. Who do you want to storm with them? Germany? Czech Republic? Ukraine? Assault planes, not defensive planes. The Polish National Foundation gets 20 million to set up an account on YouTube. Well, they're balls. [[Applause]] Let me tell you a secret, Prime Minister. YouTube account can be set up, attention, free. It's free. It's just free. [[Applause]] Bravo! I'm here to help. After work, if you're tired of coming home, we'll drive down the street together, and I'll teach you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And the money saved will be spent on the upcoming, beloved by the PIS EVENT and saving lives. Can we go out like this? The Left has a program for a modern state of prosperity. Because if it's as good as you're bragging about it, it's a program that can be implemented. You can increase your spending on health care, you can build apartments and crèches, you can increase your pay in the budget, you can introduce green energy and clean the air, you can provide a decent life for older people. And this is our balanced budget of human needs and human desires. [[Applause]] Populism. For the Left health is more important than bishops, IPN and CBA, who need 2 years to find Mr. Banas' home. What if they were looking for something smaller? Like this? And this? Or something like that? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Fear to ask. I'm scared. That is why we want to increase the level of funding for healthcare to 7.2% GDP by 2024. Let's invest this money in opening up hospital branches closed today, training new doctors and encouraging those present to stay in the country. Access to doctors and medicines should be standard. Standard. Doctors should be standard for all of you, too. That is why we are presenting today a bill on increasing funding in healthcare. This is a test for your responsibility for the state. The drugs are supposed to be for every pocket, not just the rich bank presidents and the prime minister, also for pensioners and families who aren't doing so well. We guarantee cheap prescription drugs for 5 zlotys. That's our promise. We're gonna file a bill like this. If you care about Poles and Poles, you will vote for them with us. This is our Left, a balanced budget of human needs and desires. A modern state of prosperity is a country where people have a place to live. I'm not gonna bully myself about the failure of the apartment+ program anymore, I'm just gonna tell you the simple truth. The apartments will not be built alone, Prime Minister. The market didn't work here. Because it hasn't worked in years. It didn't work because 2 million apartments are missing, sir. Here, responsible programmes are needed where the country will coordinate the entire investment: from project to key transfer. Apartment is a human right, and the state should not seek profit here. The Constitution guarantees social justice. And these are state benefits to all citizens and citizens, not just the Prime Minister. If the state is to act efficiently, it must reward its employees well, and today the budget is the worst-paid sector in Poland. Medical paramedics, most of the medical profession, police personnel, social workers, teachers, officials. Today you give them a choice: earn below dignity or go to the private sector. There's no other option. Ask the teachers who fought for a thousand gold raises and still have to fight. The left proposes: the remuneration in the budget must not be less than 3.5 thousand. PLN per month. This is our left-wing, balanced budget of human needs and desires. The country should be accessible to all. Why do we need the Central Communication Port for more than 30 billion if 14 million Poles and Poles will not be able to get there? Don't build monuments while you're alive. Think of the people. We need to expand the railroad, create a network of bus connections in every municipality. What are you doing? You're closing the railway line from Zagawa to Wolsztyn, where 100,000 live. People? There are millions of people living in your neglected places, and we will remind you of that no matter how you respond to it. The Left will remind you of that. [[Applause]] Until the last minute, you tried to patch up this budget. Let's face it, you're still gonna change it in a year. Minister, your flashing speech lacked this information. You should say: I am giving you a balanced budget that we are about to have to revise. And money can be found: at the beginning - the end of the funding of the Church by the state, further - fair taxation of the Church, then - liquidation of the IPN, liquidation of the Polish National Foundation and directing money from companies where they are really needed. Yes. Elimination of the Sejm and creation of KC. Do you want to keep counting? Reform the tax system because it's extremely dishonest. Why should the poorer pay higher taxes than the richest? Raise the tax-free amount, introduce reasonable tax progression, finally introduce tax for the largest multinational corporations, digital tax. [[Applause]] Don't be cowardly with the Americans. It cannot be that a small Polish entrepreneur makes an honest contribution to the budget every month, and a great American corporation does not pay even a zloty tax in Poland, because due to the contacts of our Prime Minister and President with President Trump simply We're so brave, we're afraid to say, "Pay fair taxes." Because you pay taxes, you just pay taxes, of course, how you have left-wing views. [[Applause]] Finally, introduce the sugar tax that the Left has been talking about for so long. The Polish state still has many opportunities to increase budget revenue without harming Polish families. You're so happy to talk about responsibility and prosperity. Meanwhile, the Left has already submitted a bill, e.g. the minimum, minimum - I repeat - pensions at the level of PLN 1600, the restoration of rights acquired to those who were deprived of their pensions, although the Polish State guaranteed it to them. [[Applause]] Are you really that responsible? Then back us up. You put together a project about investing in renewables... We have submitted a project on investments in renewable energy sources, combating climate change, increasing clean air efforts. If you care about your children and grandchildren, vote in favour. If you don't care about your children and grandchildren, vote in favour because I care about mine. [[Applause]] I'm just as much a citizen as you are. This is our balanced, left-wing budget of human needs and desires. You can't see your responsibility at this point. You can see the budget written, Minister, because it must be what you wrote brilliantly on your knees at the last minute. There is an imaginary budgetary balance, where millions of Poles and Poles still do not have access to public services, they still do not have decent pay and fundamental rights. This budget isn't balanced at all, it's scary, it's bullshit. This budget is only balanced on paper. The budget, which does not meet the needs of Poles and Poles, hides them, is not a sustainable budget. It's a lie, it's just an order that you pin on, because you think it's fun to just fool people. But not everyone gets fooled. We have shown you where money can be found for the budget that will serve Poles and Poles. But I understand you're afraid of Trump, because I don't think you're gonna say you're not afraid because he's listening. I understand you're afraid of bishops, because I don't think you're gonna say you're not afraid, because there's gonna be elections, someone has to support you. But you... Then let me give you 1%. GDP deficit per 1% GDP deficit. Let it happen. Why the hell are you gonna ask us to do this next year, as you can say right now, honestly say it. The European Commission allows this. It's not a shame to have a deficit. It is a shame to have a balanced budget when many burning problems are unresolved. [[Applause]] Do you know why you're laughing? Because you can't understand it. Your balanced budget is propaganda bullshit, Minister. Is it a shame to have a balanced budget? The propagandism is your balanced budget. The parliamentary club of the Left, my beloved Left, the wise, reasonable, wonderful, fantastic, will not support this budget because it is a sustainable budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u206	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You like to go back to history, you like these comparisons all the time, so let's go back to the story that concerns you a little bit. Quit accusing Jarosław Kaczyński as Prime Minister that he was incompetent, that unemployment under his rule was 15%, that during his reign two daycare centers were built. Really, it's a shame to go back to history all the time, and it's a shame to compare. You like these comparisons in absolute numbers, but you don't see what's changing in reality and from what level you started from. Poland did not start in 2015, as you have been trying to convince for 5 years. You're still trying to convince me that everything good has happened in our homeland is all yours. You can't say anything good about your predecessors, not even about your governments. You report your prime ministers in the days of AWS, the first Prime Minister of PiS, etc. Under what conditions have we come to work, and what kind of Poland have we been able to tell you? Not everything worked out - and this must also be clearly said - but the excessive deficit and European procedures were abolished in 2015, in May, it was the excessive deficit procedure, so you could make some investments. You got the biggest European budget because you got 400 billion zlotys for the years you're in charge now. You didn't negotiate it, you know, sometimes you can't always spend that money well. That's what you talked about at the secret meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, but that's what you're about to talk about. You can't say a good word about your predecessors. And I'll say a good word about you. Well, it's a good thing you brought in 500+, and it's a good thing there's a 13th pension. But all this can be done better. And that budget you made an idol out of... You've made an idol out of a balanced budget. You've got your calf, because every time you go out there, you get excited about budget sustainability. And well my predecessors, super substantively Mrs Leszczyn, beautifully oratorically, but also substantively, Mr Czarzasty, [[Applause]] They said about what's not realized in this budget, about those you forgot, about those you don't want to notice. They're always there, they always need backup. There's no country to solve all the problems, and neither have you. I want you to go downstairs and tell the nurses, the doctors, tell the patients and patients who will be using the gynecology and obstetrics... Ba, they won't be using any time soon, because more than 300 troops have been shut down, another 300 branches and sub-options have been suspended in recent years, in the years of your reign. You guys don't see an hour's rounds at the S.R. In 24 hours? Can't you see that in 26 specialties, the doctor's queues have been extended, and only four have been cut short, 13 remain unchanged? You don't see the problems that are today, they're here and now. You say that: Local governments are responsible for education. No. Education is a task commissioned by the government to local governments on behalf of the Polish state and you should provide them with funding. There's a $10 billion missing. 10 billion in 2019 local governments contributed to education. They don't have money to pay. We offer a clear solution: the government pays 100% for the salaries of teachers in Poland. And that'll solve the problem. Self-governments will then cope with commuting, interactive boards and extracurricular activities. But if you don't help with these tasks, you're not going to help achieve that goal so that they can pay their wages, you're going to have to make very difficult decisions. Government budgets aren't up to speed right now. Many local governments, also where you rule, have a problem. But you want to plow local governments, and this is unfortunately one of your many flaws, because you have the idea of a centralized state, managed from one street in Warsaw by one person. This country has its limits. Unfortunately, this limit is human suffering, this limit is the lack of access to doctors, to good education, to nursery, to kindergarten, lack of road, lack of bus, lack of many things that every day suffer. And there was no government that would solve all the problems, but there was no other government that would, using such rude propaganda, boast of its idol - a balanced budget, its calf - a balanced budget. Will you guarantee that new branches will be launched with these words? With these words, will you guarantee that pensions will increase dramatically in a systemic, not once, electoral way? Will you guarantee this to a group that is so little discussed in this debate? I want to claim Polish entrepreneurs, those who create prosperity, are the salt of this land. You're the ones who keep your promises at the expense of them. They're the ones who pay to raise the minimum wage. It is good that the salary increases, yes, but an honest government, a government that loves Polish entrepreneurs who want to support them, would say: no, my dears, we will raise the tax-free amount, we will not take from you what you work, we will not rob you of this money, we will leave it to you, thanks to which will increase wages and for the employer, and for the employee. But no, you have your theory: we have a monopoly on knowledge, we know who needs to be given money, not you who work hard, who have gone through the crisis, who have saved Poland in the most difficult moments since the 20s of the past century of crisis, which has affected Europe and the world. They deserve the words of gratitude, for it is thanks to them that many of your promises are fulfilled. We need to ask for Polish local governments who hold back investments. Where is the magical investment rate 25% That you promised Prime Minister Morawiecki in your famous plan? At the end of 2018 there was the lowest investment rate for 20 years, because people are afraid to invest because there is no sense of stability towards the law. There are constantly changing laws, there are piles of legal acts that need to be read. Again last year another record of pages printed with legal acts has been broken, which must be met by entrepreneurs, employees, all those who face the great apparatus of power, which does not serve citizens but serves to strengthen power. We cannot agree with this as the Coalition of Poland, as PSL, as Kukiz15, as a representative of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, hardworking people who try every day. I want to claim the franchise. Have you forgotten them? Did he forget your president? He promised them help, but real, true, and not merely judgment, judgments, courts for which you have made them more and more lax, and there is no more justice in them. I want to claim good Polish hosts, Polish farmers. What is the budget for Polish agriculture? How much did you reduce it every year over the years when you were in charge? There were 54 billion, as we ruled - 55 billion, and 47 billion, 48 billion under your governments. That's not what you want to talk about. You do not want to talk about the lack of funding for EU projects and the lack of money for the implementation and use of billions of PLN for modernization of the Polish village. I want to claim those farmers who are fighting ASF, with a bird flu that doesn't have new markets. Ah, Minister Kowalczyk said, let's re-enact the conferences. I'd love to. Then let's play a conference at which Minister Błaszczak, then a Member of the opposition, says: "Olaboga, so many tons of coal from Russia is going as the Platform with PSL rules, the order to Putin go to put it on." So what award do you need - this order that Czarzasty was talking about - from Putin to pin for millions of tons of Russian coal that are going to Poland? And in the budget did you reserve PLN 8 billion for the penalty that you will have to pay for not fulfilling the condition of 15% the share of renewable energy in the energy mix? Did you book that money? Is this the cobbling again, the magic, the magic-mara that you love to do in all this so that only the tables are right? In tables you will not heal health care, in tables you will not feed children, in tables you will not teach children and you will not raise children and you will not build the strength of the local community. Raiding local governments, stopping investment by local governments, holding back because they can't bear it, it's not against the mayor, it's against the local community, it's against the civic community, it's against the community of our compatriots, it's against your constituents. You still have, unfortunately, this philosophy of a monopoly on wisdom. You have most, but you do not have absolute wisdom, you have the absolute majority, but you do not have absolute wisdom. Radical changes are needed: voluntary ZUS is needed for entrepreneurs, pension without tax is needed, zero VAT is needed for healthy food to encourage and help Polish agriculture, but above all to help Polish consumers. You need a higher tax-free amount, which you have already promised, for everyone, not for the chosen ones. And these projects are complex. I am glad that today the opposition very substantively, of course, also with its emotions, because we have the right to... We are here to call on you and ask for those you have forgotten about, I am talking about Polish patients, pensioners, children whose school may not survive this year, because you do not give money to local governments, French people, farmers and entrepreneurs. Yeah, we'll remind you of that because that's what we're here for. We'll also call on you to cooperate. We will commend what is good for what is different from you in a radical way, and we will thank you for what you have done. We will also demand a fair and clear conversation with us, because we are also here by the will of our compatriots and by choice, because millions of votes were cast on the Civic Coalition, on the Left, on the Confederation and on the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 - the Polish Coalition. More than on the PiS. More of these votes have been cast than on you and you cannot ignore this vote, especially when we are talking about security now, because the budget is the financial security of the country, of Polish families, but the budget is also thinking about the security of those citizens who are in Poland, those who are on missions, those who have left. You don't want that, because you still haven't made that dialogue today. Finally, I'm talking about it, but it's very important. Dialogue between the opposition and the government is your responsibility and such dialogue is possible. We are open to cooperation, to establishing a common position, to taking up the challenge, to being a quarterback in NATO, not waiting for what the ministers of Trump or Trump themselves will say to respond. This is our role as a constructive opposition. We're gonna do this part. We will make amendments to this budget, because a balanced budget does not mean a good budget that meets all the needs of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u208	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I came out here to tear this draft budget to shreds, but after listening to Mr. Vladimir Czarzasty's speech, Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish and others, I kind of liked this budget. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Could've been worse. [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we will still vote against this budget, and that's because evil is what you think is good. If e.g. This budget is three times. more money for social, this is a confirmation of our thesis: PiS is a socialist party that builds socialism in Poland, the consequences of which are horrible. Gentlemen and the opposition share the idea that if you don't do something, it won't be there. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a shoe. Why do we have shoes in Poland? Because there's no shoe ministry, because the state doesn't do it, and that's why there's no shoe problem. It's a button. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the fact that nobody deals with buttons, there are no problems with buttons in Poland. If the state hadn't been building houses, trains, cars, cars, cars, and railroads, everything would have worked. This activity of the state harms Poland. The Polish state clearly and clearly harms Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the basis: if we take money from people, for example. on, I know, culture, then people get not only less, they have less on paintings, on the cinema, on the theatre - they have less on what the Minister of Culture costs - but also they get not those films they want to watch, only those that they want to see, the Minister of Culture. So our capabilities are not only financially smaller, but also qualitatively smaller. And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to discuss this any further because it's basic: is it okay if it's social or is it bad if it's social? As Mrs Thatcherova said, for example, you must not give benefits to single mothers because it encourages women to be single mothers. If we're giving money to the community, it means it pays to be poor. We encourage people to be poor. And that's harmful. At the end, just one little remark. I lack one budget item, a budget reserve to pay for the evacuation of the U.S. Army from Poland. Because in Iraq, they demanded money to evacuate the country. One day we may want those American brigades to evacuate from Poland, for example. They're gonna help us implement Law 447 and then they're gonna tell us, Mr. Trump is gonna tell us, pay for it, and then we're gonna get out of here. So that such a position as the budget reserve for the evacuation of the American army is worth predicting in the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u210	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to reassure the public in Poland: there is probably no money that would have to be given to fulfil all the promises that Parliamentary opposition, total opposition, can make from the stand. Here we heard the burning speech of the leader of the Left of Mr. Charzasty. I would like to remind you: a few hours ago, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki reminded us of the situation with regard to social empathy, social solidarity towards the elderly, towards pensioners and pensioners. These excellent ideas for providing additional revenue to the state budget ended in the fact that they could afford to raise pensions of several zlotys per year, and it was not known whether the stamp was more expensive, which would entitle the postman to provide information about this fact, or whether there was a greater advantage resulting from this benefit, from the increase. That's not true, that's not true. Ladies and gentlemen! A balanced budget is a big deal. Of course, it is technical that the Minister of Finance has decided to submit such a budget, and the Prime Minister and the Government are proposing that the High House maintain such a structure. Of course, Parliament's role is to respond to reality in a manner appropriate to social expectations. But as far as social expectations are concerned, absolute social hearing has just the Law and Justice, the United Right, a group that today has a parliamentary majority in the Sejm. We have sharpened this hearing at meetings - more than a thousand meetings under the programme - Poland is one, we have held and listened directly to the electorate, directly to voters, and not to this twisted voice, which here often looks very well prepared, but goes, I would say, a realistic way, full of promises, sometimes an invective towards people who are implementing the real program of repair of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Here my previous speaker, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, recalled all the basic dimensions of this budget. And it is difficult to disagree with the fact that these figures reflect an impressive increase in budget revenue over the last 4 years and in the light of the 2020 budget forecast5. It is a great effort of specialists, persons of substance, competent. I wanted to thank all the officials, all the employees of the Ministry of Finance, the tax offices, the structure of the National Tax Administration, because it is them, good ideas and also hard legislative work carried out in the Sejm that secures income of 435.3 billion, and this allows us to say that we have a balanced budget. Ladies and gentlemen! A couple of sizes. VAT, at a time when Law and Justice rule, rises from 123 billion to 196 billion, including the budget we are talking about; growth - 73.5 billion. billions. CIT - from 25,8 to 42.6 billion; 16.2 billion. PIT - from 45 to 65,5; PLN 21.5 billion. There's an increase in excise duty. But I was gonna talk about debt, too. Here we have such a situation, gentlemen - Mr Szewczak courageously spoke about it once - that so-called. the initial deficit, i.e. without payment of interest on debt that we have in Poland, we have been balanced for a long time, we have for several years. If it were not for the interest that we pay on the large debt, which was also created in the 8 years of the Platform's and PSL's governments, which then increased by more than PLN 450 billion - this budget would have been balanced long ago. Don't be afraid of balance. Balance also comes from stopping large amounts from not paying the basic taxes that we have calculated - and no one questioned - to PLN 282 billion. No one dared to say that these amounts were overcounted, and we remember the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which said that fictitious invoices for VAT fraud were issued for 71.8 billion. Polish National Foundation. This was a report prepared still under the chairmanship of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Kwiatkowski, so it is difficult for you to question this. Of course, repairing public finances did not happen alone; it did not happen by accident. We're not getting off this road. Ladies and gentlemen, you need a great deal of determination, a great deal of patience, but governance, running the state, resisting unauthorized opposition attacks and listening to devious ones, which are not followed by money at all... I listened to the statement of the leader of the Left, who began to calculate how he would get the money into the budget. He cut himself on the third count, then he put three dots. Of course he saw the issue of church taxation, the collection of IPN funds, but then it was very difficult to calculate. None of my previous speakers, but this is very typical, did not calculate these amounts, and certainly did not show multi-billion-dollar amounts that would satisfy the social expectations that grow in a legitimate way, because appetite grows, also social appetite. We're very happy about that. I believe we can do this. Therefore, we will not give up on this road, we will prepare new documents, we will submit them to the High House, to the Parliament, so that they will act in a manner that is friendly to the Polish society. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everything that has been done so far has been well received by society and properly, honestly, reliably weighed and appreciated. This public discussion in our issue will certainly not be the tower of Babel. We're not gonna walk away from this discussion easily. We will continue patiently to present the facts, the calculations, and they brutally show that Law and Justice govern in a responsible manner, also fulfilling the rigour of public finances, state law and European Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I'd like to give you a few more sizes. Our passion for erasing, eliminating, lowering the public obligations of the Polish state can be noticed... Hospitals. ...e.g. in the calculations relating to the debt of the funds which are directed by the Social Insurance Institution. When we took over in 2007, you had a debt of 7 billion, we left 2 billion. When we took over in 2015, the debt amounted to PLN 44 billion, now it amounts to PLN 58. In the last five years... I am counting on the end of September 2019, because the Ministry of Finance has such data today, it showed it on its website. The debt has increased by 105 billion in just the last four years. Similarly, as we ruled between 2005 and 2007, it only increased by 60 billion, and it was indeed much lower in terms of its growth rate than in the governments of all the previous teams who tried to tackle it. I would also like to say that five times faster we built the revenue of the state budget. Please note that they grow at a time when we rule, from PLN 289 billion to PLN 435.3 billion, that is to say, an increase of PLN 146 billion, and when the previous coalition, PO-PSL, ruled, grew only by PLN 53 billion in 5 years. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards debt, we also make sure that it is safe to meet strict EU criteria. As we know, in relation to GDP, debt will fall to 43.8% at the end of next year. but we also take care of the proper structure of this debt. 8 percentage points will decrease the value of borrowing in foreign currency, with 34.9% up to 27%. The share of non-residents as parties to the credit obligation falls by 16.7 percentage points. I will not recall all the wonderful tasks that the Government of Law and Justice is doing for society, but it would not have been possible if it had not been for the great intellectual and substantive effort that we have undertaken by reforming public finances, introducing SENT1, SENT2, SENT3, STIR system, split payment, introducing a uniform control file and intelligent data analysis, reducing the number of controls, allowing for an increase in efficiency of the entire tax administration and tax services, services of the Ministry of Finance. From this place, I wanted to thank all those who had the strength to do so again and did not let themselves be discouraged by all those who, in an unsubstantiated way, tried to dissuade them from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u212	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u213	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to start by making a statement on behalf of the club. We are requesting that this draft budget for 2020 be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]] I'm going to refer to one number quoted by my predecessor. 82 billion PLN in 2015 - the tax administration detected empty invoices for this amount. In 2016, in the first year of your government, the momentum was still strong, because the tax administration was actually working properly - PLN 104 billion, after which after the failure of the tax administration, the dismantling of the tax control and really the failure of the tax administration these findings have fallen significantly. But first of all, I would like to draw attention to the witchcraft you have been doing in tax revenues for several years. Income growth due to economic growth, tax base growth does not really provide a basis for increasing expenditure. Not all funds can be spent in the budget. Because the expenditure limit from 2013 is set by the expenditure rule, not by the deficit level and the level of revenue. This means in practice that we should already have a budget surplus for a few years, and if it weren't for your tricks, we would have had it by 2020. It is worth noting that higher income in good times should improve the financial situation of the State and prepare a cushion for bad times. This was to be served by the 2013 spending rule. You are taking advantage of the growth of income, and these are the witchcraft, the bullshit that you practice in this area, because you attribute almost all the increase in tax revenue - due to economic growth, the growth of the tax base - to discretionary actions. That's the tax revenue that allows you to spend more money. You spend more than you should. Your sealing actions are propaganda of success and nothing more, because in this area we are dealing with negligence, omissions, the dismantling of fiscal control. You're not letting us take a closer look at what you're doing. The lack of publication of the NIK report on tax administration reform is proof that you do not have a clear conscience in this matter. Already a VAT extortion group - not to say: the mafia - embedded in the Ministry of Finance, based on the inconspicuous relations of the head of the KAS, the head of the ABW and the highest officials of the Ministry of Finance, this is the tip of the iceberg. [[Applause]] However, the efficiency of fiscal control falls from year to year and you do not use existing solutions, those prepared by us and those introduced by you, such as the tax avoidance clause, STIR or even the JPK. There are no tools, and those that are far from perfect. But it's a good thing about the company you've called up: Critical applications, which are responsible for preparing these tools. Plus, there are omissions. I'm saying it with stubbornness. You declared the Central Register of Online Invoices - you took over his preparation after us. You declared its introduction and estimated the effects yourself - 3 billion a month would bring the introduction of the Central Register of Invoices. Instead, you actually bought yourself a museum of invoices. [[Applause]] It is also surprising what you do when it comes to a split payment. That's the eye in the Prime Minister's head, I guess. This system operates on the basis of accounts, separate VAT accounts. Where's the location? In the banks. We are the only country in which this solution has been applied. Because these are billions of free money in the financial system, which instead of using it in the budget, we allow it to be used in the bank. These are negligence and omissions, which are visible to the naked eye, also this inability to do so. This is certainly the matter that the committee of inquiry should take care of. We'll call her sooner than you think. One more thing I will pay attention to, because I probably should - that the increase in tax revenue is also largely due to what you have been doing over the last four years. You have systematically raised taxes and introduced new - 40 new taxes for four years. You start with a thick pipe because we have excise duty, promotion of health products, retail tax. This tax... The promotion of health products illustrates your approach very well. Because it didn't even occur to you that you can lower your drink tax, your health-enhancing products, with the same effect. You don't care about health, you care about the money of Poles. On the register. That's the truth. also about this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first budget after the election. It would be desirable that this budget should also be a forecast for the years to come. But it can't be like that. He is balanced this year, balanced on paper, because on paper anything is possible. Many accounting and other manipulations have been used to balance this budget to escape the rigour of the spending rule. The state budget is not just a government sector, but local governments and other entities, it is an area of public finance. The whole situation of the public sector needs to be looked at more widely. There is no proper protection of education, health, science in this budget. 15 billion - hospital debt. There is no proper protection for greening our economy. The funds that we receive from emissions trading, which should actually go to the modernisation of the energy sector, go to the budget for current expenditure. The budget is pro-consumer, not pro-investment. In fact, you can say that the lack of... that level of investment is overeating the future. It's a burden on future generations. [[Applause]] We focus mainly on consumption, because VAT on consumption feeds the budget, and on investment - you have to pay back. NBP's income is... well, the result of pulse changes related to reserves. So it's a certain math maneuver. If there is a reverse situation in the future, then will the state budget strengthen the National Bank of Poland? The situation in housing policy was discussed. There was talk of OFE. Well, the problem is... After all, we also have one-off proceeds from the 5G auction. So let's move on. The burden of self-government. We have shifted too much of the cost of funding teachers' salaries. In fact, because of the huge expenditure that local governments have to bear, they cannot carry out their investments at the right level. Often they cannot use EU funds because they lack their own share. I'm not talking about expenses related to garbage charges anymore. In fact, it leads to the ruining of local finances. As far as military affairs are concerned, I think there's an interesting solution here. There's a lot of civilian spending in the military budget. Clever. And arms spending mostly goes abroad. Finally, the question of the share of rigid expenditure. He is big because he must be, and there is no money for the development I mentioned. I'm talking about investments that will be effective in 10, 20, 30 years. Because these are investments in the future. This budget can't see the future. He solves the problems... he's trying to solve the current problems, because it's needed by the rulers. Finally, I would like to go back to that budget again. You're bragging about the rise in wages. It's a good thing these wages are rising, but what's the price increase? Let's start with the garbage. 50%, 100% - price increases. Energy price increases. Household increases are being reduced at this stage, but for businesses these increases are increasing. It is known that production costs will increase and consumers will pay for them later in commodity prices. As far as food prices are concerned, this was the case. This is not just an increase due to Christmas demand. This is an increase in prices which results from a certain situation in this market. Finally, when it comes to services, services are used: from doctors to hairdressers. In summary, we can say that we have forgotten about the future, we focus on spending financing the present at the expense of the future, at the expense of future generations, we forget about local governments, forget about entrepreneurs, forget about franchise, forget about farmers. This situation does not bode well for Poland. We also lack the resources to make the right use of what we have at EU level. This seven-year-old woman, 2014 and 2020 this is a big funding, because it is about 82 billion for cohesion policy and more than 30 billion for the common agricultural policy. Such measures will no longer be in this financial perspective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know why: because we have a weak position in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u217	God bless you! My sleep. Grandpa Julius Henry used to say: if power says it won't, it won't, and when he says it will, he says. This is also the case with this post-peerel state, which makes countless promises long-term, uncoverable and uncoverable. My predecessor mentioned on this speaker that this is a translation, a transfer of responsibility, the cost of this joyful festival of distribution, doing well one by one for the next generations. That's the way it is. It also mentions the transfer of budgetary funds abroad. O, a spectacular example of this: numerous evidence is in the defence budget, which is certainly the core most important for the Polish state. I think we have as drastic examples in the field as science, where a number of institutional manglers were created. Yes, Mr Gowin is a specialist in this type of operation - my favorite company NAWA, the National Academic Exchange Agency, has in its statutory mission the promotion of Polish language teaching abroad, yes. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to refer in detail to all absurdities and nonsenses, whose great phone book is this draft budget, but it must be noted that we are dealing with creative accounting at the highest level here. A horse with a row of who, for example. will be able in this book of over half a thousand pages, which - admit, colleagues - we are all doing much more in the PDF and we are doing much better than we read, because we have received it not so long ago, to find how much the Republic of Poland puts into the Eurokochoz piggy bank, how much it owes, how much it owes, and what is the balance of our participation in this venture. $20.5 billion. Financial pyramids in individual life, private criminal life is a criminal thing, and from time to time even this type of activity is spectacularly stigmatized: the case of Amber Gold or others. But when you build a financial pyramid, a bottomless well called the Social Insurance Institution, then of course no one is prosecuted, no one is stigmatized and the debt is rolled, so it is, and just the next generations will bear responsibility for these practices. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Under no circumstances can the Confederation support such a legislative proposal that cements, preserves the bad state system. Minister Sasin was just sitting here. I'm so sorry... Please repeat: it is at the head of the ministry, which in fact constitutes an integrated system of access to the state trough. An integrated access system to the trough - that should be called the office. Paddy. Oh, manger, manger. The conspiracy, of course, doesn't queu up into that squirrel. The Confederacy is simply going to take him out. [[Applause]] We are not going to compete for the reasons of the next regime. We wait, that's it, and we're gonna see the moment... The shepherd will come by himself. ...the anger of the people, the anger of the Polish people, the ladies and gentlemen, will wipe this system out of the history scene. Well, we'd like to proceed as soon as possible to dismantle these financial pyramids so that neither our children nor ours can collapse. This document, presented here today in this box, admit, Chamber, the most important, in fact nothing else could gather us here, in fact we could... And I think it's a good system for the lower House to do that, to be in charge of taxing or against taxing, and all the rest, some more intimate groups should decide on state policy on more important matters. But this is a tree, these are michałki, these are just some expenses to make one or the other right. The Confederation cannot participate in this and therefore does not intend to support this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] Lucky for you, congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has repeatedly talked about the fact that we have a historical budget, a balanced budget, he repeated this before the elections, in the campaign, he speaks after the campaign and said this morning, and you also said this to the chairman of the committee. I'm happy for you. I just want to make a little point here. You know, with a budget like this, it's like a project that's winning, and we're happy to have this project, and the stairs are just beginning, because winning this project is just a piece of success, you have to do this project, you have to consummate it, and you have to settle it. I am talking about this because I would be more excited if we could - what Minister Cichoń said - have already seen this budget balanced for several years, but at the implementation stage, because then we could say that we have this budget solid. And it's probably just that we have too optimistic income, underestimated expenses, and it's only in laundry that we'll find out. I am already a few term in the Committee on Public Finance, and I know that this changes dramatically later. We forget what this draft budget was like, and we are tired of how this budget was implemented. I would like to make two points here. The first is going to be an example of this underestimation or, I would say, savings. This is not the case for millions, I am no longer talking about billions, ladies and gentlemen, it is the amount oscillating within 15 million PLN. You're gonna say, "What's this Galla saying here?" Yeah, but it's a figure that's part of budget 43, which concerns national and ethnic minorities. Yesterday we had a committee meeting on which we discussed the report for a few years of minority activity, and I must tell you that the main topic was money all the time. Where don't you talk about money? But practically money is the most important thing. And in the environments where projects are carried out, I would say socially, the more this penny is valued. And I must tell you that each of the minority representatives has repeated: little money. Before the election we even had the situation that the minority environment was alerted that the funds from the 15 million, no, sorry, from the 16 million PLN pool would be cut. That was the information. There was a fight before the election. You know how it is - it needs to be smoothed down. The Ministry said: no problem, there will be money for the minority community. It's like the subject's been prepared. On the other hand, when I looked at the draft budget, I saw that this amount was reduced by more than PLN 1 million, it was less than PLN 15 million. And I think if the minority finds out about it, there's gonna be a fight. That is why I am already talking today about the fact that at the stage of my work in the finance committee, Mr President, I will make an amendment, I will ask... Believe me, it's not money, it's not money, it's quite a significant group of people. If I were to tell you about the number of funds that go to Poles abroad, you would just see what a discrepancy is. Therefore, I ask you very much to take this amendment into account so that it has a chance to break through. I will want the minority committee to work too to increase this amount. Unless, Mr President, we raise 10 million immediately. It's gonna get better, it's gonna get better. Smile on your face, maybe something will happen. Ladies and gentlemen! The second topic is more serious because it concerns local governments. Many times here, from the speakers I talked about the fact that the budgets of local governments are in danger, that more and more often, and this is seen especially in small environments, in small municipalities, these budgets cause less money for investments and we need to spend money on current activities. Okay, participation in PIT - we can discuss here, but I will use the example of educational subsidies. Education subsidies have been increasing for many years, but as far as costs are concerned, i.e. spending on education, this share of subsidies has been decreasing as compared to total expenditure. And an example. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask how these subsidies are going to evolve in 2020, because we have an autocorrection. We increase the basic amounts for teachers in January, September, in the same self-correction we add money to education maintained by the government, because there are institutions that are run by ministries. My question: Is there also an increase in subsidies for local governments? What's the growth? How will it be shaped in relation to the total expenditure (the bell) on education carried out by local government units? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Girzyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The great venerable Grzegorz Braun repeatedly from this speaker, although not today, my political community called a group of reconstructions of historical sanation. What Mr Grzegorz Braun seemed to be perhaps a little malice to our political environment is an honor, because yes, we are a camp of political sanation, or renewal of the state, because that is the meaning of the word. Especially Banas is... And it was not by chance that I took such a small prop with me. Well, 93 years ago, during the budget debate on 14 February 1927, this one was not yet there, this one was dedicated a year later - here, Józef Piłsudski, then President of the Council of Ministers, who had with him such a so-called one. A card, a handwriting tied with a string. They didn't know what was on it. Since the government at that time did not have a parliamentary majority, everyone expected that perhaps the then Prime Minister brought a decree of the President of the Republic of Poland about the earlier resolution of the Sejm, which did not want to adopt the budget. This motivated Members of the time, who, like us, did not particularly like early elections, to adopt this budget. I am talking about this, first of all, because today's government has the right majority - and it is very good that it will adopt a good budget - secondly, because we refer to the beautiful prewar traditions. In difficult times of the Second Republic of Poland, and these were difficult times, almost all budgets, except those of the 1930s and 1935s, when there was a global crisis, were sustainable budgets. So the crisis does matter... Bravo! It was extremely important because we managed to conduct public finances according to the principle that Bolesław Prus had taught in the 19th century, saying: remember your departure or with your income in harmony. I am pleased that Mr Galla spoke before me and asked an important question about educational issues. I am happy as the man who followed this budget just in terms of education, education, science and higher education, I will answer. Well, education is really important. We pointed this out because they're gonna be the kind of things that they're gonna hide when they're young. This is why education subsidies for local government units are increasing from around 46 billion to almost 50 billion in the previous year. So this is an increase, ladies and gentlemen, by 8.3%. Even taking into account what you were right to say, which is the level of inflation, this is an increase of about 5%. So we're handing over funds to local governments so that they can implement the government's programme to improve our education. This programme is also, to a large extent, an increase for teachers. They have been since September 1st. R. increased by 10% , now, since September 1, this year, they will increase by another 6% and that is why there is a complex self-correction to the budget, which takes all this into account in the level of educational expenditure that this increases. And the basic amount for teachers' salaries, currently around PLN 3337, will be PLN 200 higher from 1 September. Is that enough? No, it's not enough, but it's more and better. And we're still on our way to getting these outlays going. We will also provide, even though we could actually, as you encourage us, transfer only to local governments, the wealth of schools. There is an Active Table programme, that is 35 million PLN, which supports precisely this type of area. This is bullshit, this project. The free textbook program is being continued. This is over PLN 200 million. And who brought him in? The Civic Platform. But thanks to the rule of law and justice, this program, which, yes, has been introduced under the rule of the Civic Platform, is not only continued, but has also been extended. Thank you. Thanks to the fact that primary school is not six classes, as in the state of government, only eight, the programme is wider, it is also for two more... Shortened by one year. ... yearbooks. Pay attention to that. That's not true. I can admit you're right if you do something good. Finally, with similar logic, approach your rivals. But six plus three is nine. Finally, it is a national programme for the development of reading and enrichment of libraries, including school libraries, and it is not only that. Because students are increasingly using electronics instead of books, it is also the National Education Network providing free wireless Internet for children and young people. Finally, at least a few words about science and higher education, because colleagues will talk about different areas of the budget in this debate. Higher education and science. Over the years, the rule of law and justice has been growing in this very important area. Thanks to this, research universities appeared - I have the honour to be a professor of one of such research universities - thanks to this, our salaries, employees of Polish science are growing. I would, of course, like to earn even better, but the wage increase that was last year was indeed significant. And I am pleased that there are also resources in this budget for such actions to be designed. It is also a multi-annual investment to increase the material base of Polish universities and scientific institutions. Only 772 million have been allocated to these activities in this budget. In this are included various activities, they are written in detail. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this brief statement of mine, I will refer to what I said was that this is the first budget without a deficit. And there have been some allegations here in your speeches that this is a budget for the cost of future generations. No, at the expense of this generation. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is finally the first budget for which we are not in debt for the future. No, it's not. It's the other way around. You didn't understand. He's lying. We're just paying off the debts we've made so far because public debt service exists. That is why we finally have a budget that not only owes us debt for the future, but pays off previous commitments. I know that these commitments are also commitments that the rule of law and justice, which had not previously had a sustainable budget, did, but when we put power in your hands in 2007, it was only possible to bring this budget to 16 billion. Then, thanks to your actions, it was raised to a level of 50 billion, and if I miscounted these budgetary issues, like you, it would probably be 100 billion, but I'm not malicious. I am pleased that this budget has been submitted by the government, that it is a good budget, which also in terms of education, science and higher education makes our country grow better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u223	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wanted to say, Prime Minister, but I will limit myself to welcoming the ministers. The prime ministers are here. From what we heard from this tribune both during the morning's speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki and later during the speeches of representatives of the governing coalition, I have the impression that everyone believes, because it is the first budget in free Poland without deficit, that this budget will become history and its creators will also become history. I have some bad news for you and the Prime Minister: this budget will not go down in history as a budget without a deficit, and I will show it in a moment, and it will go down in history as probably the biggest propaganda hoax in the last 25 or 30 years. I want to talk about four things. First of all, I want to show that this is a budget with a huge deficit, and that this deficit has not been written down... Anyway, it's written down. If you look at these papers carefully, and I show it, of course you'll find these elements without covering your expenses. Secondly, I want to show that this is an irresponsible budget. Thirdly, I want to show that this is an anti-development, non-development budget. Finally, I want to show that this is an anti-social budget. So, to a large extent, I would like to question what the representatives of the governing coalition have said from this place, headed by President Kowalczyk. Why is this budget in deficit? Firstly, you threw part of the expenditure outside the state budget into the rest of the public finance sector. It has already been mentioned that a one-off pension, because let's not call it, please, a thirteenth pension, because it is only 13th pension for those who take a minimum pension, nothing more, has been thrown out of the Solidarity Fund, which is not only outside the state budget, but is also outside the stabilizing expenditure rule. You could have increased your spending by about 16.5 billion, because these expenses were thrown out of the stabilizing expenditure rule, thrown out of the state budget. In addition, expenditure on the Self-Government Road Fund, which is not covered, amounts to almost PLN 4 billion. This is already over 20 billion PLN of this hidden or actually undisclosed deficit, because, as I said, in the tables attached to the draft budget, all these numbers are easy to find. You can see it all. However, there are other items in this budget, which are also questionable, e.g. on the financing of public television in the amount of almost PLN 2 billion, where this expenditure is to be financed by a gift from the Minister of Finance in the form of Treasury bonds for public television. This is obviously an increase in debt. This is not seen as a deficit, but, of course, the European Commission is counting it as a so-called deficit. net lending needs and this will be included in the deficit. This is PLN 22 billion for these maneuvers. Let's add to that 10 or 15 billion you've pushed into local governments. These are mainly shortages when it comes to education subsidies, i.e. the increase in self-government expenditure related to the regulations that the government is taking, but does not give money to implement these regulations at the level of self-governments. [[Applause]] Together, this gives about PLN 35.37 billion. Remember this number, we'll be adding up in a minute. Contrary to the established principle of budgetary precautionary, the State is trying - on a large scale - to finance fixed, legally determined expenditure in the budget, which is based on laws, one-off and transitional revenues. Well, it is, I must say, the main sin of this budget, because no responsible financier does such careless things. It has already been mentioned. You have found a one-off income for this year at a fairly high level, and I will briefly discuss it, but there is no guarantee that it will be repeated in the following year, while it is used to finance fixed expenditure: the 500+ family, single pension benefits and a whole range of other important changes, such as the tax reduction that President Kowalczyk mentioned. What is this one-off income? This is, first, a transformation fee of PLN 17 billion, which was accumulated in one year 2020. In the following years this fee will not be charged, because it is a one-off operation transferring funds from OFE to individual pension accounts. Besides, it is not known if there will be so much, because it is not known how many people will decide on the IKE and not on the ZUS. Secondly, we have the sale of free CO2 permits. Third, this is the revenue from the 5G network sales of frequencies. That's about PLN 4.5.5 billion, that's how we judge it. And you won't sell again either, because once sold, the frequency can't be sold every year. Fourthly, this is the revenue from the OFE according to the slider. These are the last revenues of this type, they will be collected by June by the budget, i.e. about PLN 3.3 billion. Fifthly, this is a deposit from the profit of NBP, PLN 7.2 billion. Together, this is PLN 40 billion of disposable income, which, as I said, you finance fixed expenditure, which will be repeated every year. So I would like, first of all, to ask how you intend to finance these expenses in 2021, which taxes you will have to impose. Besides, you're already imposing a whole series of taxes, as has been said here. This is an irresponsible policy, which is why I said it was an irresponsible budget. It's an irresponsible policy, because you're actually acting like people who are oppressed by financial need taking some moments. These moments amount to very large amounts, that is, as I said, 40 billion PLN. I now propose to add to this the previous 35 billion, which have already been pushed out of the budget, and we have PLN 75 billion of expenditure which is not included practically or not included in the budget or are covered by one-off revenue. One-off revenues are in line with accounting rules, but they are not in line with budgetary precautionary principles, as I have already said. Of course, this problem will return in a year when we will be discussing the 2021 budget in this House. Two words about NBP's profit deposit, because it's a very mysterious item. Never in history in the planning phase of the budget has such a high contribution from the NBP's profit been planned. In general, NBP was very careful in planning its financial result. Only twice in the last 10 years he's been planning a financial result, because you never know how the odds are going to work out and what the difference in valuation will ultimately be. This year we are in a special situation, because the budget was prepared much later, but the only explanation that comes to mind is that this 7 billion comes from positive valuation differences, of course, but not currencies, because the exchange rate changes were very small, only from the valuation of the gold resources that NBP has. However, in order to contribute this money to the budget, these profits must be realised. We have to sell the gold. So if it turns out that the President of the NBP in collusion with Prime Minister Morawiecki... You have to sell half the gold. ...they sell the gold reserves of the National Bank of Poland in order to finance the budget, this is not only a scandal, but it is also a violation of the law, because the Constitution and the Act on NBP prohibit the National Bank of Poland from financing the state budget. In this case we will ask for clarification to the Prime Minister, to the President of the National Bank of Poland as well as to the Supreme Chamber of Control to check these flows. A summary of this part of my speech is that we have 35 billion expenditures pushed out and 40 billion expenditures financed once. Together we are dealing with a real deficit, a real deficit of PLN 75 billion. This is, ladies and gentlemen, almost 4%. GDP, and I would like the Minister of Finance, if he does, to refer to it. Thirdly, as I said, the budget is anti-development, because, looking for money for electoral promises, especially last year, the government consciously limits expenditure on development and investment. It is best seen in the budget of European funds, to which very few people look, and this is a very interesting reading, I recommend you. The reading of this budget shows that expenditure in the years 2016-2019, during the rule of law and justice, was lower than that planned by the Government of Law and Justice on average by PLN 23 billion per year, i.e. 23 billion more were planned on average, 23 billion fewer were implemented. Between January and October 2019 only 55% were made. a plan of expenditure from the budget of European funds. In short, instead of 85 billion, 47 billion were spent. I very much doubt that more has been spent by November and December. Let me add that as far as these investments are concerned, the result is that we have had the lowest share of investment in GDP for many, many years. We are in fourth place since the end of the European Union. How does this apply to the plans of Prime Minister Morawiecki 4 years ago when he announced a 25% share of investment in GDP. The effect is that there's just no money. The government consciously reduces and cuts expenses so that it can spend money. Finally, it is an anti-social budget, because, Mr President, appreciating what you have done in terms of money transfers for the population - here everyone will certainly agree that it is better to have more money in their pocket than less - I would like to say that giving away money is not a social policy and that is not all. I'm not gonna tell you again, that's what I'm talking about. We have a full crisis in education, we have a health breakdown, we have promised apartments, we have no promised apartments, we have energy, which is poisonous energy, which results in 40,000. Poles die every year. Of course, I could pull that list. The general problem with this budget is that by giving away money, you have forgotten that the modern state of prosperity, the Polish state of prosperity should equally care about the development of sectors of social services important for the future development of our society. I'm not gonna tell you why and what it's all about in health care, because it's been said, and I don't want to repeat it here. Maybe one number is so interesting. The government has 2142 limos, and there are only 1360 ambulances all over the country. So maybe we should move these priorities a little bit, Mr President, Minister, and really focus on what is important in the wider perspective. Finally, I would like to say that this budget will not be remembered as a symbol of the excellent social and economic policy of Law and Justice, just as all of you have tried to convince eloquently here. Unfortunately, the symbol of this budget and the symbol of your policy will be a ghost shuttle whose keel rusts in Szczecin, will be a yacht of the Polish National Foundation with a broken mast, will be a shovel embedded in the Vistula Land and will be a 100 billion debt that we will inherit from your government at the end of this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on behalf of the Law and Justice, I have come to present the budgets of three departments which are very important for the functioning of the State, namely: public administration, internal security and order and national defence. Every country that wants to be respected and to be reckoned with must have these elements at a high level. This budget that we are presenting to you, which is presented to the government, is a budget that is largely implementing it. This is certainly the kind of budget that these basic functions provide. And now, going into detail, these funds, which come from the income part, of course, are less generated, because mostly the expenditure part is the most important here, but also there are revenues that create among others. revenue from voivodships, is the housing economy and financial resources from it, is finally the law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers and there are also issues of national defence as well as home affairs. In total, the budget, which is present in these sections, is a budget amounting to over PLN 100 billion. What will I draw your attention to? It is clear that the budget is being implemented by the Minister of National Defence. It is a huge financial expenditure, 40 billion PLN, including the implementation of our commitment to the North Atlantic Pact, or 2% GDP, which the Polish state allocates to the functioning of national defence. But they also give a huge amount to the voivodships. 16 voivodships have, manage, and in this budget it is 69 billion PLN, which are transferred to spend at the level of voivodships. These are finally measures that go to public administration, to civil servants, as well as to all so-called. non-multiplier workers - this is the amount of PLN 41 billion. These are powerful measures that are going to do just that to secure the functioning of the state. In the case of measures that go into investment, these three departments spend amounts which look as follows. Expenditure in public administration is PLN 350 million plus almost PLN 1 billion of EU funds. National defence is 14 billion PLN, these are the huge investment expenditures of the Polish army. Public security and law enforcement is 467 million plus almost 60 million of EU funds. Here you can see the construction of police stations, new guards, investments in state services. It is visible to the naked eye as they improve their functioning, but also as it translates into public security. It is also visible to all citizens in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is the huge financial resources from the general reserve of the country - PLN 22 billion, including among others. funds for the modernisation of the Police and Border Service, PSP, SOP, this year is PLN 401 million, for natural disasters - 1320 million, reserve, additional expenditure of the Polish Armed Forces - 433 million, reserve - 1103 million, construction, modernisation of border crossing points - 35 million. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the measurable financial resources that the budget is proposing, and I am absolutely convinced that they can be bigger. Here it is obvious that there is no budget in the world to ensure that all needs are met, but this is a stable budget that gives Polish citizens a sense of security. He's not. Ladies and gentlemen, this is important and I would like to say this because it relates to the budget, that the budget is an accounting record, but also a certain element of the policy that this budget is implementing. I am a young Member, that is, one who is starting a parliamentary term, and allow such dissipation, attention. If I had been here for the first time and did not know what it was about, I would have said that these are two different points of view in Poland: Poland in ruin and Poland, which once worked fantastically. I think I will refer to Mrs Leszczyna's statement that the Government of Law and Justice is cheating local governments... He's cheating. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last year there were 27 billion additional funds for local governments - I understand that this is cheating local governments. You can be wrong, but not by PLN 27 billion. You're gonna ask the local government. If it's five times more money for roads, that's, I understand, cheating local governments. If there is more, not by 50%, but by 80% the funds that the State pays and... More than when? ...voivodship offices signed, voivodships, agreements with local governments, that's it. deceiving local governments, of course, according to your opposition. The bus connections themselves formed and reunited the towns. They're not here. Of course, these are things that need to be noticed. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Czarzasty spoke about the fact that nothing is visible, nothing happens until the opposition comes to power, there will be a lot of investment. This is something that, ladies and gentlemen, you can see with the naked eye and what we can see anywhere. At the moment, you also use the services of Polish carriers, among others. PKP, the stations are being renovated, there are new railway connections. Wasn't there before? That's a fact, too. Of course you can say that it looks different, but, ladies and gentlemen, these are facts that can be verified, tangible, these are concrete amounts, these are specific places, you can take you there and you will see. You can also ask local government officials who are referred to by you as being cheated, whether this is bad for them. I asked, and I have answers. Then I'll show them. I'll also refer to what's happened here. There was a time when I was a Mazowieckie voivode, and as I hear from President Kosiniak-Kamish that local governments are looking at it differently, they are being deceived and here everything happened differently than before, I will say this: please, in case... Perhaps otherwise, because it was a more explicit formulation that the Law and Justice want to plow the local governments. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 42 counties in Mazowsze. In the previous term, four were co-organized or governed by Law and Justice. Now it's 21. If this is a policy of ploughing local governments, it seems to me that it is a very narrow term, for some it is perhaps plowing. Ladies and gentlemen, you are often the advocate of such a statement: it is the voters who decide this. Indeed, democracy is that it is the voters who decide, on the basis of what is presented in the budgets of local governments, in the budgets of the Polish state, in other special funds, when they go to elections, by the votes that direct the formations concerned, by the political parties concerned. I am convinced that this budget, which we are presenting to you in these sections, gives you a sense of stability and predictability of expenditure. I also listened to Mr Rosati, Minister of Finance, an experienced man who said that the budget was passing by PLN 75 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, I hope that I will spend four years in Parliament, that Law and Justice present this budget in the first year of the new term of office, and this is not the last year of our term of office, but the first year, Mr. I think if you're scared of people being scared of something horrible, then you have to have the confidence that it's covered in reality. The responsibility for the state is that, if the Prime Minister is present and speaks of something, the Council of Ministers presents the budget, and the coalition of the right, this budget will be carried forward on its shoulders, in order to manage and to have the effects of this management, and not just to adopt the budget. It seems, ma'am, that the important element in this budget is also very numerous reserves, which I have already mentioned in part, but they also give a certain degree of stability regarding not being directly assigned to a given element, just to be creative. Here's the whole space for cooperation. The level of EU funds that Mr Rosati spoke about - let us be aware - will now be falling. We are in the apogee when it comes to EU funds, absorption. 'Cause you guys can't get... Mr. President, not us, just... That's a line, too... Foreign policy. All right. These are the appropriations entered in the multiannual financial plan. It ends in 2021, the next one will be designed. But in general - we must also speak about this clearly and loudly - Poland will not have any more of these resources in the coming years, because we are a developing country, we are one of the few countries in the world, which has more GDP every year. And in recent years too, even though we're going higher and higher, the PBK is increasing. But we've been in ruins for four years. Therefore, among others. This element is important because it is not so that in the coming years we will have more and more financial resources. The whole battle for additional funds for Mazowsze was also connected, among others. with NUTS functioning and adoption in Eurostat, so that 4 billion can actually be saved and not given to other European regions. It's a good thing we did, and we're not gonna give that money back. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, because there is also a huge internal self-government initiative here. Let me remind you: not only does the government spend directly, it is the government that accounts with the marshals, but it is the Polish authorities that absorb a large - and one can say: the largest - part of the budgets is precisely this element, which is one of the EU funds. 40%. I know exactly because I've been working on it a little bit. You can see just how it accelerates and local governments actually accelerate in this area. These funds will certainly be spent much better in the near future. I assure you, a good host will certainly lean over government money, he doesn't disgust himself with that money. He is a local host, and a good old man, a good marshal, a good uncle, the president, the mayor will of course take such measures. I stress: not very little, because what happened in the funds of the new road fund for self-government, these are really extraordinary measures, has never been. And self-government... Not released last year. I assure you, I can tell you because I know what I am saying because I have signed agreements and I know... But not on a national scale. Madam, I know that you speak so expressively very often, but believe that these are facts and figures. You can relate to that, too. You can create a certain opinion, but it's hard evidence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend this part of the budget - very important, as I said - concerns security, public order, public order and also helping people - because I will remind you: the funds are secured in the Polish state and in the disaster reserve - but also the increasingly efficient operation of the services... These are also elements concerning the speed of operation of ambulances, emergency services, access to operations, speed of access, cooperation with local authorities in spending funds that have never been as high as before, for example. measures for TSOs. This is a measurable element that creates the security of the Polish state. In this issue - still through the specific expenditure of the Polish army on weapons, but also on the functioning of state services, as well as on the very important functioning of services such as CBA, such as the Agency of Intelligence, such as the corps of civil service, such as professional soldiers and officers, such as the functioning of the patent office, RIO, Boards of Appeal, etc., etc. - this is the element of the entire Polish state within these three departments. We recommend to you, the High House, that the funds that are earmarked for these three headings be accepted and that this budget, as presented by the Government, be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u227	I do not know what quote to use at the beginning of his statement, whether we are even followed by a flood, or whether we will be like in a fairy tale, in relation to the submitted budget. I want to talk real. I'll focus mostly on my health. 14 billion PLN of hospital debt. Judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of November last year. For all this, the Treasury should pay for the debts. Is there any reserve for 2020 and 2021? During this period, you have to make this right, which is to execute the sentence. There isn't. A careful programmer... The Minister of Finance, as a banker, should understand that there should be resources for this. The hospital network - the failure of the last two years. Health project, financing of health in relation to 6% GDP is a fraud because for this algorithm 15 billion were taken for health in 2018, among others. Paydays. Another PLN 15 billion was taken away in 2019. And don't tell the country, like the Prime Minister in this podium, that there are more resources in the National Health Fund, because it is we who pay this money, each Pole and Polish. So you didn't realize all those intentions. You've got it on the military. Cheers, you pay half the military's worth. Is this the way it's supposed to be? Should almost 40 million countries have such expenses, so little for their health? And to all the budget assumptions. They will not stand for criticism or GDP growth, which they say will be lower, i.e. approx. 3%, not 3,7% , nor investments that have been at the lowest level for years, i.e. 5.6% And the specialists say it could be 3%. All one-off revenues in the budget were discussed. Who's gonna be okay in 2020? The IPN. That's where the spending goes up. Who in this room knows how much? From 342 million to 423 million, i.e. 80 million PLN in one year. So what will the Institute of National Remembrance do to make these expenses grow? The expenses of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister increased in 2019 by PLN 200 million, so you are already behind this prosperity. And it's important, it's important. It will depend on how we take care of our health, how we present the figures in the budget fairly, Minister, what will be the discussion. As hard as it was, as the crisis was, we knew about it and we took all possible steps not to touch pensioners. No one will forget that everything you carry out, you carry out at the expense of local governments, at the expense of citizens' health, by cheating local governments. That's what this budget looks like. It's not a fairy tale budget. The Prime Minister should finally wake up. If he is a reliable financier, he should tell the truth, not try to use various tricks or statements to deceive citizens. The government shouldn't deceive citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u228	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u229	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! It is my great honor to refer to the budget in the section: agriculture and hunting. The 2020 budget is a well-planned budget for these headings, because if an increase is planned in the overall budget of 2019 by 2020 at 4.6%, this is a curiosity - in the agriculture budget in 2020 we will spend more than PLN 50 billion, which gives us a percentage of 5.5% height. [[Applause]] If we compare it to the general budget, it's over 1%. more growth is on agriculture compared to the entire budget. This is very good information for farmers. This budget primarily guarantees us stability in agriculture. This was lacking for many years, for the former parties that ruled, the coalitions that ruled when the farmer did not have this stability, in terms of the very important field in Poland, which is agriculture. Now about the details. First of all, in order for agriculture in Poland to grow well, the agricultural institutions must work well. That is why we place very much emphasis and allocate finance to agricultural institutions, those institutions that support the Polish farmer. I am thinking, above all, of the ARiMR - the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - as well as of the National Centre for Agricultural Support. There are others, such as the KRUS, which is very important when it comes to farmers' social security. But these two institutions run Polish agriculture, support Polish agriculture, they decide on the development of Polish agriculture. And for these institutions, we have guaranteed a budget that will allow these individuals to function well. Another organization, an administrative unit that supports Polish agriculture, is agricultural advisory centres. For many years, agricultural advisory centres have been underestimated. This resulted in good specialists from farm advisory centers moving to private advice. This makes private advice to the Polish farmer to benefit from progress but private. Agricultural advice in Poland has been neglected for many years. This makes the advisor who comes, the private one, advises the farmer to benefit from the company that pays him for it. Therefore, from the beginning, when we took responsibility for Poland, first, counseling came back to the Ministry, which was, I think, a good step, and second, we finance, we spend more and more money on agricultural advice, because we know that if we are talking about the development of Polish agriculture, it must be good, strong agricultural advice. This is very important, we care about this and in this budget we guarantee the means to make agricultural advice even better and that the Polish science, which is developed in various institutions, is well transferred to the Polish farmer. The next element, which is very important for the development of Polish agriculture, is education. I would like to say that previous governments have done everything they can to give to local governments agricultural education. We reverse the trend, we restore agricultural schools to the Ministry of Agriculture, so that schools are well funded to educate a young farmer. At the moment in Europe, there is a problem in the European Union with the average age of the farmer. This average is very high. In Poland, this has led to our average age of the farmer being much lower than the average in the European Union. And that's why we want to direct finance to education, so that young farmers can take over agriculture, farm after their parents. That is why the funding for education is increasing in this budget. That's why we took over... At the moment, the Ministry already runs a total of 54 schools. In previous years, there were forty pairs of them. And the next schools are prepared to be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture in order, as I said, to educate young farmers so that young farmers can take over our Polish agriculture. This is the hope that Polish agriculture will develop. The next problem, on which we place a great deal of emphasis in this budget, is the quality of Polish products. Our products, Polish, Polish agriculture, have a brand and we need to maintain this brand and maybe even more promote it. If we do not promote our brand, good quality products, first, Polish farmers will lose their jobs, second, and maybe they should say it first, first of all Polish consumers will lose it, because then Polish consumers will have to buy products of questionable quality that will be imported into Poland by companies. Therefore, e.g. There's already a bill in the Sejm, print number 65, which combines two inspections. These inspections will ensure the quality of the products of the Polish farmer, that these products are, as I said, of high quality. But at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, these inspections will check and control the products that come to us from abroad, just that we bet very strongly on the quality of our products and that the Polish consumer, wherever he lives, be sure that he buys good quality products. The next element, which is very strongly emphasized in this budget, but not only in this, because it was also emphasized in the previous one, is the government's activity, but also the legislator's, to shorten the way from field to table, it is so symbolically defined. What's going on here? We place great emphasis on the Polish product being made by a Polish farmer, not by companies, as has been the case so far. Very often, though, the farmer was the least rewarded in this food chain, and the farmer was the least benefited from it. The most used were companies, intermediaries used, supermarkets used, not Polish farmers. That's what all these laws are for -- this is a string of laws -- you can't settle this with one law -- that shortens this road from field to table. This is about retail, direct sales, the fact that a farmer can sell directly to the consumer, as has already been said, but we have also introduced an opportunity that has not been available so far that a farmer can deliver his products to shops, supermarkets, cafés, restaurants. The Minister nods his head, he supports it as a consumer. That's what makes us shorten this road. [[Applause]] This is a very important action and we stress this very strongly in this budget. Next thing you know, it's MOL-i. It's also about processing not in the hands of big companies, but in the hands of farmers. The point is that it's in the hands of the producers, those little farmers, so that the farmer can make money from it. But I also want to emphasize one very strongly. What some people often try to break up the village with the city and say is that it is only for farmers, not for consumers. After all, if a good quality product is produced, consumers will benefit from it, because consumers will buy good quality Polish products from a Polish farmer. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, since 15 February we have introduced the possibility of opening up business, opening small farm slaughterhouses. Any farmer will be able to open a small slaughterhouse. For many years since 2004, when we entered the European Union, we have been lied to, including Mr Siekierski, Mr Sachaika, at the moment both in one club, and were told that we were not allowed to drive a slaughterhouse at the farm. We changed that. From 15 February it will be possible to run slaughterhouses on farms. Very important. The point is to cut this road from field to table so that the consumer can buy quality products. [[Applause]] This is an action for Polish agriculture and this budget ensures stability of Polish agriculture. The Polish farmer will feel more stable, more confident, he will be able to prepare various business plans, because this budget ensures stability. Another very important matter. Dear country, in 2018 a historical amount of over PLN 2200 million was paid out of the state budget for drought aid. [[Applause]] In 2019, the drought cost us over 2 billion 300. This is the way it is estimated at the moment, because not all amounts have yet been paid, part will be paid in 2020. This is a serious problem, ladies and gentlemen, which is why agricultural organisations - this is very important, ladies and gentlemen, agricultural organisations - are asking the government to introduce a law that will introduce widespread insurance very strongly so that the farmer can cover himself and want insurance. That is why we are preparing such laws and directing more funds to social security. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years the state budget has been allocated to social security of about PLN 210.220 million. We spent almost 500 million PLN on social security in 2020, almost half a billion PLN, just to encourage Polish farmers to cover themselves so that we do not have to put out a fire later when a disaster comes. Therefore, these are systemic activities. This budget is prepared for systemic actions so that, as I said, the Polish farmer feels safe. It's a fuel thing. For many years, we have been told that no more fuel can be used to return excise duties. For many years this excise duty refund was in the amount of PLN 700.800 million. Ladies and gentlemen, right now it's a billion 180. If we counted, it would turn out there's over 400 million more on fuel, on excise duty. These are very important issues that have been taken into account in this Budget Act. The next issue, the big problem we have in Polish agriculture, concerns ASF. So for comparison, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the ASF was allocated - do you know how much? - 16 million zlotys. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In 2015 it was 20 million PLN, but already in 2017 we allocated 100 million PLN... Because ASF wasn't there. ...and in 2020 more than PLN 200 million are earmarked. Over PLN 200 million to fight ASF. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious problem. Because you let me... And I strongly wonder, because some parties are known as rural parties, and when I listened to the statements of representatives of different parties, almost no one said about agriculture. Even the head of PSL and Kukiz.15 on agriculture in his speech said literally two sentences. Wait till the end. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that in fact Polish agriculture is the most concerned about law and justice, the most concerned is the government, because this government knows that agriculture is a very important economic sector. The Prime Minister once said very important words from this speaker. I have repeated them before, but I will repeat them until eventually everyone will understand how important Polish agriculture is in all economic activity in Poland. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that there will be no strong Polish economy if there is no strong Polish agriculture. And we are strengthening Polish agriculture with this budget, because we know how important this is for the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u230	Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When we talk about the climate crisis today, when we use this phrase, it feels like it's no longer giving up the gravity of the situation. Burning Australia, 0.5 The billions of animals that have burned, that is just a taste of what awaits us, of what awaits us. But Australia is far away. If we do not change our emissions within 10 years, we will not halve our emissions, then our children will be in hell. And now let's ask ourselves a simple question, whether in this budget, the one that has been presented to us, the ecology, the reduction in emissions are priorities. No, there is no link to the ecological priority in this budget. European green governance priorities include clean energy, sustainable industry, changes in the construction sector, sustainable mobility, biodiversity, pollution eradication, a sustainable food chain. Each of these priorities should be mirrored in our Polish budget. Do we have a trace of this in our budget? No, there's no sign of him. You have not signed a commitment from the PiS to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. You say it's not enough time, you say we need more time and resources to prepare. Is there, therefore, money in this budget to prepare for this objective, neutrality, in 2050? No, there's no sign of them. [[Applause]] The European Union is preparing, thanks to Jerzy Buzek's initiative, the Fair Transformation Fund. Are there provisions in this budget that would show that we are also preparing to use these funds? No, there's no sign of them in this budget. There's no sign of environmental expenditure planning in this budget. But there's another trail. There's a big, huge carbon footprint. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of investment in the field of ecology today means going backwards. You say these investments cost money, but ask yourself how much they're going to cost us not to pay our children and grandchildren. Poland is a country in which emissions are growing the fastest in the world, emissions per capita. We are the leader in the sloppy ranking, the ranking of shifting environmental costs to the next generation. What about You're talking about meeting the expectations of environmental problems through a forestation program. Only how many trees were cut out by the law of Professor Szyszka? You're talking about investing in windmills a few years after you blocked the entire market, the functioning of this market. You are talking about strengthening RES, only that the share of RES in Poland is 12% And that share is falling. You're talking about the Clean Air program, which, by the way, goes like nose blood. You've already blocked two well-functioning programs in this area. You're talking about the geothermal program. You could have a laugh. I'm just wondering if his name will be Rydzyk+. Your model of functioning in the field of ecology looks as follows: spoil, announce a repair program, and then not implement this program. [[Applause]] A few hours ago, there was a meeting of the environmental committee to admit that there was a climate crisis. At this meeting, Mrs Paluch was kind to say that the ecological arguments are the arguments of a hysterical teenager, that they are arguments of emotionally unstable young people. I hope young people remember that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u232	Please and thank you, Member. And please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget law for 2020 provided the necessary resources for the continuation of the government's current economic policy priorities, namely maintaining a high growth rate, low unemployment rate, low inflation rate, minimum government deficit and social policy, including in particular family and health policies. The funding of health policy from the budget is aimed at enhancing the health security of our society by ensuring sustainable access to and quality of healthcare services. As part of this function, the State provides funding for high-specialized services, transplant medicine, cancer control, medical rescue, support the development of health infrastructure, pursues drug policy, provides health and pharmaceutical safety, provides preventive research, health promotion, protection of patients' rights. Let us consider, then, the analysis of the budget in Part 46: Health, whether these tasks have a chance of being meticulously implemented. Total expenditure in the heading: Health protection planned in the State budget for 2020 amounts to about PLN 8.5 billion. I'll use round amounts. It should be stressed that the expenditure planned in this section of the State budget does not reflect all health expenditure. They are also borne by the budget of European funds and by the financial plans. If we take into account the funding for co-financing projects involving European Union funds, almost PLN 280 million, and in addition the expenditure of the Labour Fund for traineeships and medical specialisations and expenditure of the Gambling Problems Fund, health expenditure, so consolidated, is planned to amount to PLN 11 262 million. If we add to the appropriations included in the budget law for 2020, i.e. the said 11 262 million PLN, the funds included in the National Health Fund, the expenditure on health protection in 2020 is expected to amount to a total of PLN 107,6 billion and will be increased by 10 billion compared to 2019 expenditures. This shows that PiS, the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is pursuing an active and ambitious health policy. This is about reaching up to 6% of health expenditure gross domestic product. By amending the Act on healthcare provision, we have ensured that these measures will represent 6% GDP. Then, by amending this law, we reduced the investigation period to this level by 2024. According to the recommendations of this Act, health measures should represent 5.03% in 2020 GDP. They will amount to 5.09% so they will exceed this reference level by more than PLN 1.2 billion compared to the value adopted in the Act. Also last year this level was exceeded because it should be 4.9% GDP and we reached 5.29% GDP. This shows that this is not a one-off trend, but a lasting one, resulting from a wise, responsible, sensible policy of the health ministry and government policy. Let's take a look at what the budget of the Minister of Health will mainly be allocated to, including the reserves at his disposal. Will they increase and to what extent? Firstly, spending on higher education and science will increase by PLN 136 million in 2020 compared to 2019 and will reach PLN 1.8 billion. Come on. Investment funds in general and clinical hospitals - an increase of PLN 80 million up to PLN 631 million. For the purchase of vaccines - an increase of 112 million PLN to the level of 274 million PLN. For medical rescue - also an increase of 44 million PLN to the amount of 161 million PLN. For the system of supporting the command of State Medical Rescue - an increase by PLN 38 million up to PLN 44 million. For pharmaceutical inspection - an increase of PLN 10 million up to PLN 37 million. Let us remember that for funding for free medicines and medical devices for people over 75 years of age, 800 million PLN was secured for next year, that is 12% more than in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been listening since the beginning of this debate, and sometimes I'm amazed. I disbelieve in some of the statements of such leading economists of the liberal opposition concerning just a balanced budget, because of this country you have made the main axis of the attack on the current government. Well, in previous years of liberal governments all the time We have heard here, also in this House, that the objective of state policy is to keep the budget deficit as low as possible, is to balance the budget. You've been making a budget deficit out of an idol. You put him on the altar, and then you spent a year and a year on everything, ladies and gentlemen: a few gold benefits of pensions, the liquidation of police and fire stations, underfunding... That's not true. No salary increases for teachers, no salary increases. That's not true. We didn't pick it up. You guys were picking it up. And everything, one at a time, because you were using this bogeyman, because the budget deficit is going to increase. It's a lie. And of course it is clear that the budget deficit is not a good thing, it is a bad thing, of course, but you have also threatened the standards of the European Union. Well, that's because it was. She was... And now that the current government, due to a truly responsible policy, has managed to bring the deficit to almost zero... No, there isn't. We balance the budget, but at the same time we apply a wide range of resources and budget expenditures for social, family, health policy, which could only be dreamed of in your governments. Don't lie to me. With so much social expenditure, we maintain a balanced budget deficit, and you think it's a bad testimony to this government that it discredits the government's work. Well, it's not sustainable. And you guys are making black, cashmere scripts at all. The only consolation is that these cassandra visions are no longer touching anyone, because you have been applying them since the beginning of the previous term of the current government. Both members of the ruling party and the idea that Poles - why they expressed in the next elections - are not afraid of these black scenarios and casandric visions presented by opponents of the government... Because it's supposed to serve, as I mentioned, only the unwarranted criticism of this government, to dissuade its achievements. Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the budget for financing and co-financing of the project involving the European Union's funds for 2020 in Part 46: Health is planned for the amount of PLN 896 million. But that's not all. It's a huge amount of insurance for students. It is about insurance for students and participants in doctoral studies, for those taking parental leave, not subject to compulsory health insurance from other titles, for those unemployed without entitlement to benefits. The Labour Fund will continue to fund postgraduate internships of doctors, dentists, which you have abolished, and we have restored, together with an increase in the salary of trainees, over PLN 2240 million. This amount also includes expenditure on the financing of residents, nursing and maternity care. High Izbo! The increase in health expenditure to the level of PLN 107 million is possible and is consistently implemented, as I mentioned, thanks to a credible, very responsible policy and the hard work of the current government. We rebuild revenue and increase, sealing the tax system, financial opportunities. How did these expenses go all the way, including the NFZ, for our predecessors? In 2017, the level of this expenditure amounted to PLN 74 billion. So I ask whether 107 billion PLN is less or more than 74 billion PLN. Does not the fact that it is PLN 107 billion mean an increase of more than 34% compared to what you have spent on health? Therefore, these attacks on the government due to underfinancing, collapse in health care, etc. cannot be the result of misunderstanding of these numbers. They are simply the result of bad will and political animosity. It's hard to argue with these numbers. PLN 107 billion for this year allocates the government to health protection, of course, including the National Health Fund. That's the way it's gonna be. This was at the level of PLN 74 billion under the governments. But the National Health Fund is not a government. Therefore, the situation is incomparable. You didn't pay for overcompensating to hospitals. They're gone now. Go to the hospital. I was a member of the finance committee, and I know that's what happened. Those debts grew. It was only this government that paid nearly PLN 2 billion for your overwork, for which you did not pay for it. But you're lying. Why didn't you pay? Because you didn't care about the condition of hospitals. You didn't care. You wanted to convert them as soon as possible, commercialise them into commercial companies, and consequently privatise these hospitals. But now there are longer lines. You can't get to the hospital. You're shutting down hospitals. And that's the kind of experiment you used. And today, after many years of experience, we can compare the results of your experiments with the commercialization and privatisation of hospitals. After all, everyone in their territory has hospitals in this form and can say that this has not brought any improvement in the financial performance of hospitals, but has degraded the level, quality and quantity of medical services provided in the area. These things aren't hard to prove. However, we should, in spite of everything, control our emotions, count our numbers and not say, Mr President, such things that 107 billion PLN for health care is not enough, that is drama, tragedy, since you have spent 74 billion PLN on your own. In four years, we have been able to increase this amount by more than 34%. It's done systematically, not uniquely. And, of course, free medication. I mentioned them. This whole program will continue. So far, about 2.5 million 75+ patients have received over 155 million drug packs. Where were those free meds for your government? If we analyse the budget step by step as regards the level of expenditure and the structure of these expenditures, it must be made clear that they are very consistent with the lines of action of the Ministry for the coming years. The directions of the health ministry's activities for the coming years were presented today by the Minister of Health at the Health Committee meeting. Therefore, I refer to the statements of the Health Committee to see that the current health policy will continue, be improved and modernised. Maybe someday when we get back to the government. Therefore, Poles can really feel one step at a time more and more secure when it comes to their health needs. Of course, we can't remove all the negligence from decades in four years. It's not perfect, we're aware of that. But please respect such a significant increase in health spending over 4 years by more than 34%. But you spend less. That's a great amount. If you are discussing with such obvious numbers, I think that this discussion cannot lead to anything. In any case, with regard to health care, we are doing our job: we will continue health policy consistently and support the Minister of Health... The time of life of Poles has been reduced for the first time in many years. That's what you do. You've been screaming enough already from this speaker, and at the Health Committee meeting, not comparing like a bribe from the market, so let me say one last sentence. I didn't speak at the Health Committee meeting at all. It's finance, then. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue this course of action... Think about it and be precise. You're at the Parliamentary Speaker. ...and we will support the Minister of Health in such a health policy, because we are convinced that the Minister of Health respects Poles through such a policy, cares for their health and seeks out the most modern experiences, including worldly ones, and methods to increase the level of health satisfaction of Poles. Thank you for your attention. Geothermia to Torun - that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u234	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget proposed by the government reveals its priorities and ambitions. This is also the case with the draft budget submitted for 2020. A project which clearly shows that despite the declarations and the upper-floor words, environmental protection and the fight against the climate crisis are still not the priorities of this government. The draft budget, in which the government's priority continues to be to smoke millions of tonnes of coal and big investments that will be destructive to the environment. The environmental destiny of nearly PLN 8 billion is still not enough. It is still not enough to face the challenges facing us, the challenges facing the climate crisis and the next, sixth, great extinction of species. To protect air and combat climate change, the government wants to spend a little over PLN 3 billion, although it has noisyly announced that the clean air programme itself will amount to 10 billion a year. I ignore the fact that you are once again making the same mistake by combining the fight against air pollution with climate change. This amount in the situation we're in is just funny. This amount is just a drop in the sea of what we should use today to combat the climate disaster and air pollution, because every day that is wasted brings us closer to the disaster caused by climate change, every day costs us millions of gold losses caused by air pollution. Unfortunately, the government in this project has made it clear that there is no such ambition that it wants to run business as usual. Because how else do we interpret the declaration of the importance of the increase in the share of renewable energy in the energy mix and at the same time recognise as one of the indicators the annual extraction of coal in millions of tonnes, and precisely at least 60 million tonnes this year and in the following 2 years. We are also witnessing the sixth great extinction of species - a biodiversity crisis, a crisis as dangerous as the climate crisis, as scientists from the Intergovernmental Platform for Climate Change report. Biodiversity and Ecosystem Functions in their latest report. The biodiversity crisis is the space crisis that gives us life. Not only species of large animals, such as lynxes or bears, are at risk, but also the smallest, often unnoticeable ones. It's the loss of insects, including bees and other pollinators, so crucial for food production. [[Applause]] Our government's response to this crisis is to target the development of biodiversity of PLN 700 million. This amount is the same, at the same level for 4 years. For 4 years, including in this project, half of this amount has been spent on maintaining the current national parks. In the light of the biodiversity crisis, this amount is a commitment by this government to the safe future of our children and grandchildren. But what to expect from the government, which in the same project spends PLN 0.25 billion on the excavation of the Vistula mine? The excavation, which is already your white elephant, has doubled the total cost of this investment compared to the cost of last year to nearly PLN 2 billion. The excavation, which is the biggest attempt on the biodiversity of Polish nature since the clipping of the Białowieża Forest. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Together with this draft budget, the government has shown its true attitude towards environmental protection, the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. He showed a lack of ambition when it comes to real and not just sham action, because the environment must be a real priority of state policy, also and above all financial policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club, to speak on behalf of the club in respect of two headings of the budget, i.e. transport and construction. Each state budget for the following year has its own characteristics according to the new economic, social, political and economic circumstances. The 2020 budget is a special plan not only because it starts a new decade or even a 20-year anniversary, but above all because its construction gives rise to a new distribution of accents in the continuation of the development of the Polish economy. The quantitative preferences are gradually replaced by qualitative preferences. This applies in particular to construction and transport and the mutual relations between these departments. The financial situation of transport companies and vice versa will depend to a large extent on the construction performance: rail and road investments are the best hope for construction. In the coming years, Poland, according to all its opinions, will remain at the forefront of the fastest developing countries of the Union, but we are in danger of slowing down. It is caused by e.g. the lack of public investment, especially in local governments, and the reduction of demand in industrial construction. We also have international conditions: low growth rates in Germany, the effects of brexite, the US conflict - China or the current problem in the Far East. In recent years, starting from 2016, Poland has set its focus on development, which can be described as investment, the creation of new, solid foundations for infrastructure in all branches, at the contacts determines their cooperation. If we take into account the strategic conditions of the development of Polish transport, environmental protection issues remain, which was so much discussed here. This is to a large extent linked to maintaining the proper position of road and rail transport in the transport market. For a long time, the existing issue of the track is still valid, but at the moment the biggest challenge of Polish transport is the containerization of cargoes so that they can be transported by rail and reduced transport of road infrastructure, and this is also an impact on ecology. To go into detail, I would like to stress that for 2020 transport expenditure in all sources of funding is more than 45 319 million, 2019 alone is 8545 million, and that is, please, 23%. more than in the previous year, in which transport development was prioritised. We plan more than 20,732 million for road infrastructure, i.e. by 32% more, ladies and gentlemen, this is almost 1/3 more expenditure on road infrastructure, of which the National Road Fund is over 15 632 million, and here we have a 39 percent increase, the biggest increase in expenditure in history, please, countries in terms of the National Road Fund, and expenditure from the state budget is 5100 million, i.e. More than 14 percent increase. With regard to rail transport in turn, please countries, this is a total of 18 billion 964, rounded to 16.8% growth compared to the previous year, several times more than expected growth or growth in GDP. Rail infrastructure is almost 17 billion, and more than 16 percent increase. Investments on railway lines: The National Railway Programme is over 12 350 million, i.e. 20% increase, ladies and gentlemen. So that for every single element that we look at, there's growth. 5% to 7%. Maintenance and renovation of PLK - 4230 million, ladies and gentlemen, more than 7.5 percent increase. The funding of domestic passenger services to compensate rail carriers for lost revenues from statutory allowances is 1965 million, i.e. more than 18 percent, almost a 19 percent increase compared to the previous year. Co-financing of inter-voivodship, international transport - 701 223 thousand, almost 13 percent increase. The Union's projects to purchase rolling stock are, please, 664 million, 34 percent increase compared to 2019. Other projects carried out with funds including expenditure of the EU Transport Projects Centre are 5191 million, almost 20%, 18.5% height. Road safety tasks, aviation tasks, ladies and gentlemen - for each of these tasks we have huge increases. Now looking at what you said earlier, four years ago, it will soon be almost five years, that immediately after the takeover of the government by Law and Justice and the announced social transfers, there will be a collapse of public finances... That's not true. We didn't say... Where's the public finance collapse? You said this at the end of 2015 and 2016, you said it many times. So? It will happen, not immediately, but it will. And there was no stopping of road or rail investments. What do you mean, no? What do you mean, no? We have this year, ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, in the past year, a record number of roads built. What record? You've got the wrong guy. Ladies and gentlemen, 80 projects with a length of 460 km. These are the facts and these facts you will not shout. This is your record. We gave a total of 960 km of roads and no matter what you do. They said, these are facts. Abuse. Between December and January. Record. We already have more than 4121 km of roads, of which almost 1690 km of motorways and more than 2425 km of express roads. But who built them? Well, we built them. Just like this deficit, Mr. President. In the area of expressways, we have built almost as much as you have built for 8 years. The highways, of course, you've expanded, but you haven't finished any highways. There were no bridges, no highways. Ladies and gentlemen, Highway A1 is a shame. You've started Highway A1... This is not yet you, the construction of the A1 motorway began in 2005 and was not completed in 2015. In this term of office, we will complete the construction of the A1 motorway... As long as you don't get them off the construction site. 'Cause you guys are so incompetent, you're probably not gonna finish. She is in the interest of the Polish state, not of our Western friends, only in our interest and you will not shout it. At the moment we have 30 tasks, a total of 382.4 km is built, there are nine contracts signed for another 160 km of roads. But the general management only talks about 117 km in 2020. It's a failure, it's a disaster, it's a collapse. If we look at the roads being built, ladies and gentlemen, we have 373 km for express roads. You never built a country again in a year. In 2012, where the Euro was, you built 333 km, we built more this year. And what ended that record of yours then? 600 kilometers. The fall of hundreds of Polish construction companies. We remember these committee meetings and the dramatic words of the entrepreneurs who came... But in 2016 and 2017, you didn't build anything and that's why companies fell. You Members, who are only Members of the second term, do not remember this, but me and many Members who are here remember how entrepreneurs came, wept and yelled at you what you were doing when it came to the roads. As far as housing is concerned, another record, ladies and gentlemen. This year we built over 185 thousand. Apartments... Sorry, 185 grand. apartments in 2018, 200 thousand. in 2019 and this year, 2020 we are already planning 215 thousand. apartments. More was built only in the 1970s, from a big album. We have now exceeded this limit of 200,000, which could not be done for many years, and to varying degrees. It is also development construction, and individual construction and social construction. 867 apartments. I hope that local authorities will learn to use all the instruments that we have foreseen in the field of social construction. It's the biggest support we've ever had for social housing, which we're putting together right now. And yes, the subsidy fund, ladies and gentlemen, is increasing from 281 million to 396 million... So, are these 900 apartments? Is that it? Ladies and gentlemen, this is 860 more apartments than you've built. 867 apartments. The state is not from building apartments. You predicted that if we pulled out of the MdM program living for young people, there would be a collapse in the development building and what? There's no collapse, there's more records. But people were getting a loan from us that was state-funded. This is the best proof that this programme, which was criticized by the Supreme Audit Chamber under the undoubtedly unfavorable chairman, Mr Kwiatkowski - was highly criticised by this programme - it was not pro-investmental at all... Banana's better, isn't it? ...because regardless of whether this program was or not, developers built the same number of apartments. It was just a question of whether they were either bought more apartments or had less own contribution. These are facts. You're not gonna scream it... But we helped people, not developers. ...and these facts you are unable to deny. Taking all these elements into account, may I just remind you, as it was mentioned here, about railway infrastructure, facts: National Railway Programme, 2016, the first year - almost 5 billion, 2017. - over 5.5 billion, 2018 - 7.2 billion, 2019 - 10.2 billion, project for 2020. - over 12 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, three times as much as when we started building our budget in 2016, and we were the first to do so. Then we have budget expenditure for maintenance of railway infrastructure: 2015 - 1300 million, 2016 - 2700 million, 2017. - over 3 billion, 2018. - almost 2700 million, 2019 - 3600 million, 2019 - almost 3700 million, almost three times more than in 2015. And Mr Czarzasty says that we neglect to maintain the railroad? And why are there billions dedicated to this? Three times more. From the European Union. From the European Union. It was the beginning of the perspective... These are the facts and these facts you will not shout. I think society appreciates that. There's a new programme for bus subsidies, and maybe we can finally re-establish the cancellations in your time of call... This is a disaster. It's not working. ...buses of general interest. This is a new program, local governments are making proposals, there are hundreds of agreements signed and it will grow. I think... But the voivode says it doesn't work. That's what the Voivodeships say. It's working, ladies and gentlemen. Ask the local government. In Pomerania, I talk to local government officials, and they are very pleased that this program is functioning. Talk to those who sign contracts, not those who do not sign contracts for various reasons. 12% in Mazowsze. Given all I have said, the draft transport and construction budget for 2020 is one of the best that it has been in recent years and therefore deserves full support. And that's what the High House is asking for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u238	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2020 is the budget of three members, because the chief accountant of the government, the finance minister, is lying, plotting, plotting. But again, because it's been said many times, and you still don't understand. You say that the deficit is zero, and in the Solidarity Fund plan the deficit is 17 billion PLN. Only in this one fund, not to mention the others. The revenues of this fund are 3700 million and the costs of this fund are 20 400 million. You know what the worst part is? This fund was created last year and at the end of this year it will have nearly 30 billion debt, exactly 28 300 million debt to be repaid and zero visions, from which you will repay it. That's what you do with the deficit. So everyone will make a balanced budget, you don't have to be an alpha and an omega, you don't have to work to push the budget out, to make a balanced budget. But apart from the fact that you're making this budget unbalanced that you're pushing a huge deficit outside, it's also a budget of unfortunately new charges and taxes. And unfortunately, it didn't end in the first four years, in the first term. You continue to do the same by introducing a number of new fees and taxes and increases. Increase in alcohol excise duty, increase in tobacco excise duty, fuel levy, sugar tax, trade tax - that's all we know. A contribution to the Social Security During the entire election campaign, the Prime Minister said: "It will be lower." It's higher, 10%, 1500 more a year. But the biggest jump is obviously a transformation fee - 17.5 billions. Here, my horror is the greatest. The sum of all expenditure from the State budget on pensions is actually already PLN 106.5 billion. And you have the audacity to lie to Poles that you are sealing the pension system and that obligations, as far as this system is concerned, are falling. [[Applause]] No, they grow from year to year. 106 billion is 55 billion, almost 56 billion grants to ZUS and KRUS, which is more than 22 billion benefits directly paid from the state budget, that is 11 billion for the 13th pension from the Solidarity Fund, and that is 17.5 billion, which you added to yourselves once with theft of money, with the difficulties of saving pensions for years, with the OFE. That's 106 billion in total. It's a lie. In fact, our structural problems are just beginning, and don't look at me like that... You can't watch. 'Cause by 2023, we're gonna have $1100,000. people of working age, and we will increase by 1 million people who retire. And did you? As a government, you think about how structurally these problems can be solved? No, all you're thinking about is how to get the money to the ZUS today, which will then make the commitments even bigger. That's why you're eliminating OFE, which will make pensions even lower, which is why you wanted to eliminate the upper limit of contributions to the Social Security Office. Your only inept idea for the third pillar, the PPK, doesn't work. In fact, all these problems are gonna come, but you're hoping you'll be in political retirement by then, and that won't be your problem. There's just not gonna be a pension. Only that such irresponsible government in free Poland was not yet there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u240	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to refer to part of the provisions of the draft budget law for 2020, among others. on environmental issues. The previous 4 years of government have brought many positive changes in these areas, but there were also times when it was necessary to respond repeatedly to the negligence arising from the government of the previous Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Let us remind you that only in the previous term of office were quality standards introduced, not only for solid fuels, but also the possibility of selling non-compliant furnaces. Thanks to the introduced power market, we avoid the risks and costs associated with the lack of electricity supply. It is worth recalling that this program, this solution, was supported by the PO-PSL coalition until then until they lost the elections. Today we are working on a budget which, on the one hand, aims to implement the principles of the United Right in the field of climate and energy, and on the other hand to allow the least possible changes in the way Polish energy works, taking into account issues such as energy security, wealth of Polish families and environmental requirements, ecology and climate. In the draft law and in the task force we will find among others. planned expenditure on the environment, i.e. environmental protection and water protection. This includes activities relating to waste management system, withdrawal from production and use of hazardous substances and hazardous materials, treatment plants and sewage systems, implementation of environmental measures by maintaining or improving natural habitats and species of fauna and flora and meeting the needs of the aquatic population and the national economy. The total amount of expenditure planned in the 2020 budget is about PLN 7770 million. With regard to air protection and combating climate change, we are talking about action to reduce emissions to air, fine dust, greenhouse gas emissions and other substances under the Emissions Trading Scheme and in sectors not covered by this scheme. This activity aims to reduce emissions of pollutants due to reduction of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine dust and is carried out by supporting projects to improve air quality and by effectively enforcing environmental law. The proposed amount of expenditure for this purpose in 2020 amounts to around PLN 3250 million. Expenditure related to activities related to water needs of the population and the national economy is also planned in conjunction with the maintenance of good water status and associated ecosystems. The objectives of the action will also be to strengthen resilience to climate change risks and to increase the capacity to prevent natural hazards such as floods and droughts, to maintain water-related assets properly, and to improve flood safety and to prevent drought effects. The forecast consolidated amount of expenditure for the implementation of this task in the years 2020 to 20202022 amounts to about PLN 5200 million and for 2020 to around PLN 2460 million. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in 2020 will carry out activities aimed primarily at making full use of non-refundable European aid for projects co-financed by the Operational Programme High participation in co-financing European funds will achieve municipal waste management tasks and support projects in low-carbon and resource-efficient economies. The revenue of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management was planned in 2020 for about PLN 2733 million and the costs were determined for PLN 4205 million. Environmental concern is also the care of existing natural resources, such as national parks, which are created in areas with special natural values. Let us remind you that in Poland there are currently 23 national parks that occupy an area of about 1%. the surface of the country. The total revenues of national parks were planned for 2020 at the amount of nearly PLN 300 million and the total costs were determined at the amount of approximately PLN 308 million. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say a few more words to the discussion that has taken place here, not just on matters relating to the budget itself. Three things. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called issue. coal from Russia, or that chopstick or that mace you're so eager to use. I would just like to ask if it is not a kind of hypocrisy to make a plea out of the fact that private entities import this raw material from Russia, by a person from PSL who was a minister in the coalition government who wanted to make us dependent on the supply of Russian gas by 2037 - 2037 - please countries - and if it were not for the intervention of the EU authorities, it was such an agreement, because it was the Polish People's Party to sign. Isn't it hypocritical that a person who was a minister in a government who gave 1 billion zloty to Gazprom talks about this? And under what circumstances was this 1 billion PLN given to Gazprom? Well, ladies and gentlemen, when the management board of the government company, which is to collect this 1 billion zloty, wanted to proceed with the collection of this debt, it turned out that the management board was changed and the management was set up, which did not collect this money. At this point, they are already engaged in the ministry, and they have recently been detained. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, statements of alleged ineffectiveness in reducing the VAT gap. Look at the EU calculations. because there are only reliable people there for the current opposition, not in the Polish government. The EU institutions list Poland as an example of a country that effectively deals with the grey zone and collects taxes. The allegation that there are fewer attempts to extort VAT, as an example that you do not race them, is curiasable, because this shows, among other things, that tax services reformed by us are effective, CBA and ABW are effective. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that Mr Galla referred to about this detail, which is about PLN 1 million less money for national minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, on 18 December, at the meeting of the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities, there was information presented by Minister God that these funds had been granted, and there was no need to convene a special meeting of the committee to say this, only then it was enough to listen. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. As for the fight against the smog, I'll remind you that we're the ones who decided to... There's no climate warming, we know. You live in your own world, I see. Madam President, we have decided to lower the smog alarm standards from 300 DZ to 150 DZ. Don't read it. The target is 80. And the Clean Air Program? Let us remind you, ladies and gentlemen, just one thing: in 2012, the Government of the Civic Platform decided to raise these standards from 200 to 300. Exactly. Which government did this? The Civic Platform. [[Applause]] That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. But the alarms weren't fixed. Wait a minute, sir. In 2008... The air's getting worse. Madam, you had your time. In 2008, a directive was introduced which indicated acceptable standards for air pollutants. After your governments, we are facing 4 billion PLN of punishment for the years 2007 to 2015. The penalty referred to by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is the highest instance for you. The TSUE - the only oracle. Don't yell. And, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? That you guys raised your standards instead of fighting the problem. You've decided to break the thermometer. Anything about the budget? Commissioner, as I said about the budget, you were not particularly interested in what I have to say. When we remind you of the pathologies of your governments, when we just show you what it was like to fight climate problems in your day, then you suddenly activate. But you're saying there's clean air now? Clean air. Ladies and gentlemen, one last thing. Criticism of the sale of CO2 allowances. Russian coal is just. And let me just remind you that in 2012 we sold CO2 emission allowances, for example. Just like KRS letters. I hope that this will also be explained by the appropriate services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u243	Dear Marshal! Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission. In fact, this project is a great PR blow job. My compliments. Your budget is like a suit cut in such a way that it closes up beautifully at the front, they slap stitches on the side and cracks on the back. And these backs, ladies and gentlemen, this is the local government -- the local governments that you treat like ATMs. Or like a cash cow. You take on more tasks, you transfer your own tasks to them, the government, not giving enough resources to carry them out. Contacts. In short, it appears that nominally local government units are growing income and subsidies, but to an extent incomparably smaller than avalanche expenditure. According to government estimates, PIT government revenues will increase by an average of 3.5% in 2020. Inflation - we've heard - 3.6%. But it's gonna look different in different municipalities. In the case of Łódź - 0.9% in the case of Katowice - this is an inheritance. Remember that. The truth is that as a result of a reduction in the rate of PIT and an increase in revenue costs, the increase in the share of local government units in PIT, which amounted to more than 5 billion between 2016 and 2019, will amount to only 1 billion in 2020 as planned. But you're in favor of raising taxes. And real budget revenue can be even lower. Meanwhile, spending will increase by several billion. Expenditure will increase particularly strongly in education, which is not compensated by nominally growing education subsidies. This planned for 2020, although 6% higher than the 2019 budget, does not take into account the effects of increases on teachers from previous years and the effects of the entry into force of the Regulation on raising the minimum wage to PLN 2,600. Disgraceful! Scandal! And this does not only apply to administrative staff and staff, but also to teachers. Notabene, how humiliating this is. Aren't you ashamed that a Polish teacher earns less than PLN 2,600, earns less than the lowest national salary? [[Applause]] Isn't that a shame? Aren't you ashamed? That's not true. Lightly counting, the subsidy is undervalued by 5 billion, I think it's 8 billion. The government shifts the cost of education to the local government, openly disregards it, which, in conjunction with your deformity of education, poses a gigantic threat to our children. Be aware that this is a rush towards a money disaster. Less and less teachers, no teachers in vocational education - this is a disaster. Do you know what teachers think about the current power? You don't know because you don't talk to them. [[Applause]] That's why it's so easy to humiliate them with public media. It's shortsighted, it's just stupid, because it's gonna hit your tight budget with difficulty, and it's gonna shake up his challenged balance. I don't have time to talk about other costs, for example. related to waste and maintenance of hospitals. Besides, you treat these costs like unnecessary waste. That's what it sounds like. They're also being transferred to local governments. That's your aggressive accounting. As a long-standing self-government officer, I feel obliged to stand up for self-government, all of them, including those of the PiS, please, because you are not their defenders. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u244	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice. There's still time for the Law and Justice Club. But the Minister has already told me. He's still got time for the club. But he wants it at the end. There's no law against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The cost-effective management of time by the club shows that we can manage budget and expenditure equally cost-effectively. What budget? Learn. It's not my problem that the Civic Platform can't manage its time efficiently. [[Applause]] There's really a problem with that. Polish National Foundation and State Treasury companies. Using this time, I would like to draw attention to some of the issues that have fallen down here, these are absolutely untrue things, i.e. It's some kind of confusion of concept. I understand that there is no Member who has said in such an exalted way that bees are dying, tragedy is happening. What do you mean? Don't they die? Because they're dying. I'll just give you the statistics, the test results. Five years ago, it was 800,000. Bee families, in 2018, at the end, I wrote 1640 thousand. - twice as much. [[Applause]] What, aren't you ashamed? These bees are dying, aren't they? Maybe they have fewer kids. You could've at least picked... To the bees. ...to the bees, choosing arguments to criticize, to see what the data is. The question is, who was counting. 'Cause he could've shot a hell of a lot. Yeah, they shot a lot with those arguments. If we use such arguments, the listeners will not really know what is going on. The poison is less. But it's not just that. I hear about climate policy, it is indeed a very serious matter. My previous speaker, Wojciech Zubowski, spoke here about clean air. Talking about the fact that there's 3 billion or 7 billion in the budget somewhere on clean air or even on climate policy... Ladies and gentlemen, the main tasks of clean air are carried out in the financial plan of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and in a much smaller part, but also in the plans of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, so that in fact in the budget there is no direct revenue and expenditure of the budget, while it is expenditure. As far as clean air is concerned, the judgment of the Court of Justice pointed out that nothing had been done about this in the years 2007 and 2015 which is exactly in the hands of your governments. I regret the fact that 40,000 are still dying prematurely. People a year... You're not doing anything. We're sorry, too. ...because of the contaminated air, while your response to the European Commission's reminders and the Court's judgment was this: unfortunately, we are unable to do anything because we have no money. Literally... There was a crisis. There's been a crisis, but don't tell me we're having this kind of effect right now. But now there's no crisis. That's how you literally texted the European Commission: we're not gonna do anything because we don't have any money. That's the attitude we're taking... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. We don't accept that approach. This is indeed a problem, it is a very difficult problem to solve and we have started to solve it... You're fundamentalists. ... e.g. preparing the Clean Air programme, which is foreseen for 10 years. Already after the first year more than 100,000 were received. proposals for the implementation of this programme. Of course, this program will accelerate. It is natural that 3 million furnaces cannot be replaced for a year, but if we started in 2007 or 2008, when the European Commission approached your government, the problem would be over, because it has already been 10 years. So now we're talking about 40 or 45,000 premature deaths. It's really hitting your own chest, because negligence was huge. We are trying to eliminate these omissions, but these are the facts. Back to climate policy, I think there's a total misunderstanding here. There is no denying that there is indeed a climate crisis. The fact is that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere has increased and increased significantly over recent years, only that we look at climate policy in the form of a global rather than a national one. Because our, I don't know, unreasonable climate policy, unfortunately not only our national, but also the European Union as a whole, will lead to a de facto increase in CO2 emissions, and that's because we are actually throwing away the energy-emitting industry where there are no such charges, even for Ukraine, China or anywhere else. There in the worse... There are no standards. Because there are no standards and there are no requirements. There, therefore, the same goods produced under worse technological conditions will cause even higher CO2 emissions. There's a ride out there with no hold on it. And we're gonna hurt the climate with our ambitious actions. I know it's very nice and fashionable here to protect the climate, say you ride a bike, not fly a plane, etc., etc. It's all very fashionable, but it has nothing to do with reasonable thinking about climate on a global scale. Because when we talk about clean air, I agree, this is a local problem and the problem of Poland, cities, villages, we solve it... So more coal from Russia? ...because no one can solve this problem or clear our air. On the other hand, with regard to the climate problem, the problem of CO2 emissions, we will have the opposite effect on our behaviour and on thinking like yours. We're going to have even more CO2 emissions globally. Please understand that. And it's not about climate conferences, it's about self-preservation, it's about actually encouraging all countries in the world to reduce emissions, and it's about trying to do it. That's what we're all trying to do. On the other hand, if we even put as much rigour as possible, which we should, of course, do, we should be doing as reasonably reasonablely as possible, we should be a model, but not a model that will push the emission industry beyond the borders of the European Union, because this way we will achieve a completely opposite effect... So these are the truths. So if we are talking about climate policy, then let us support the knowledge and concrete effects and effects of our actions, and not just the ideology that if we eliminate CO2 emissions at home, we will heal the world. No, it's the other way around. Maybe accidentally, maybe unconsciously, but we'll even hurt global climate policy. Let's throw it in the oven. So these are the things I wanted to correct, because there's been a lot of violations here. Of course, I won't talk about local governments here, but the support of local governments... I meet with self-government people very often. Local government officials say that's government support. They didn't. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Who said that? A list of local government officials, please. And look, there's an example of local roads. [[Game in the O.R.]] Previously on "Greatness..." 50%. Therefore, many local authorities could not afford to afford it. Now... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But it was less than 1 billion and 50 percent, and now it's 5.6 billion and 70.80%. depending on the type of self-government. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Bravo! And that's the difference, because if the local government wants to build a road for 1 million and is going to pay 0.5 million PLN, there is a significant difference compared to 200 thousand. That's what was missing. And that 1 million will then be used to build it. [[Game in the O.R.]] So that's the difference in the approach to self-government. And you are not going to convince me that the local authorities are criticizing these solutions that we have proposed, and not just here. Let me remind you that here was very strongly criticised a few years ago the way the voluntary firefighters were financed. It was criticized that we were centralizing that we were taking money from the Association of Volunteer Guards. It's just that the effect was that right now, not through brokers, we're just putting money into individuals, there, for people, not for relationships. [[Applause]] Bravo! That's what caused last year's voluntary firefighters to buy with 80% support from the state budget... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your units. ...almost 500 cars, and they bought 100 dozens, [[Applause]] 'Cause, of course, the middlemen here were sticking their pockets together. Bravo! So that's the difference between us and your approach to self-government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, Henry. Bravo. That's what's missing, that's the summation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u246	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present part of the position on the 2020 budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we know that investment is one of the drivers of economic growth, unfortunately 2020 is another year in which the government, at its own request, disables this motor. We are in fourth place when it comes to investment expenditure in the European Union. It doesn't look good. To make matters worse, most of the programmes that are implemented by the government in the long term are being implemented in an inefficient way. To remind you:. Accommodation+. So far, 867 apartments have been handed over. And note, the previous programme of living for young people allowed for funding in 2018 of 12 381 apartments. You've done 14 times less. This is a really new dimension of inability, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Scandal! And you're only for the rich. According to General... In 2020 only 12 stretches of road with a length of 117 km are to be created. This is a collapse, ladies and gentlemen, in the construction of roads, in infrastructure, not to mention the great return of PKS. 800 million PLN for 2020 is only theoretical. Human loans. The government is bragging about national defense spending, let's see how. The expenditure on the Territorial Defence Army is increasing by more than 42%. The second in order is culture, the outlays grow by 38%. Interestingly, when it comes to military pastoral ministry, spending increases by 10%. But if we look at the health protection of soldiers, spending is only 6% higher. Question: "What are your priorities?" Because it doesn't look good. It's like the government's long-term goal is to roll up a real army. Absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause]] Shame on you! If we look at the equipment purchase, it's not better. Most of the expenses are just advances on future deliveries, for which there are no real deliveries. We'll even look at supplies of leopards or patriots. Ladies and gentlemen, these expenses are only theoretical, if they are for military purposes at all, because the budget shows that another million, hundreds of millions will go to asphalt, monuments and VIP planes. The bench of freedom is still there. In addition, billions of zloty are spent in supermarkets abroad on military equipment, which of course threatens the Polish arms industry. In addition, failed management, which absolutely leads to the degrengolada of this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2020 budget is a theoretically balanced budget for theoretical housing, theoretical transport, theoretical roads, theoretical army with theoretical weapons and theoretical spending of 2,1% GDP for national defence. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you, we're not even theoretically considering supporting this draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u248	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Every financial plan, every budget has its priorities and its main objectives. The main objective of this year's budget is budgetary balance, which is the most important. Unfortunately, at the expense of public tasks, often involving widely understood social assistance, that is, our weakest citizens. Alerting statistics on growth for the first time in many years the level of extreme poverty by 420 thousand. concern pensioners, this age group of Poles, as well as, about horror, children. When these parts of the budget are analysed, a sad picture of serious restrictions on the financing of older people, seniors and disabled people emerges. And briefly. Firstly, very low funding for the PFRON fund for social rehabilitation, i.e. rehabilitation tournaments, which are almost absent, aid for auxiliary and orthopaedic measures, the removal of architectural barriers. What about the so-called program? Third-floor prisoners? There's been so much talk. So? No realization. The growing social problem is the lack of care for disabled and elderly people. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot to exchange. What about health care for seniors? Huge queue and over 3 years of waiting for rehabilitation services, no geriatric doctors... How embarrassing are you? ...low assistance in financing ZOL-i, a lack of approval for the noisy program of Warsaw related to preventive research of the elderly. What does that say? Because there's too many sick people. Let them die. That the government doesn't care about this age group. He doesn't care about seniors, he doesn't care about disabled people and older people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u250	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the government has given us a new ideology. It's an ideology of a balanced budget. There's been a lot today, but I'm going to focus on the most important things for people, because it's people out of their own pocket who will pay for this ideology. Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki today, referring words to pensioners, says that they live and will live in happiness. In luck. And I'm asked by older people, pensioners and pensioners on the streets for what they're supposed to live for. How are they gonna survive until the first? [[Applause]] And now for a little while. Since the first country, you've been proposing an increase in electricity prices. Mr Sasin said in November 2019 that there would be no increase in electricity, in December 2019 that there would be increases but small. A small one for the Minister. 100 zlotys a year. 100 PLN for pensioners, this is a very large amount. He says he might be refunding next year. But will he refund it? Maybe he'll refund and raise another 50% from January 1st, we don't know that. This is 100 PLN. Trash is 200. It's already 300 a year. And now it's the most important thing. It is a receipt from such discount.Every day low prices. President Andrzej Duda, Mr Andrzej Duda, was shopping in 2015. He bought oil, juice, I don't want to advertise which, bread, eggs, sugar, etc. He paid PLN 37 for everything. Beet juice. I took the liberty of shopping today, the same ones in the same disclaimer. So many eggs, milk, sugar, tomato juice, cheese, bread, etc., even a surprise egg. Mr. President had an egg of surprise, too. 52,67. Mr. President paid 37. 40% More. Scandal! I'm talking about it because there's no vegetables here, there's no fruit, there's no meat. There's a lot of expensive stuff. It's a yeast. 40%. Only with this week's shopping, it's 15 zlotys. Take the count. You can't count. A month's 60 PLN. That's over 700 a year. Minister, you make so much money, and that's your bonuses and awards, that's 100 zlotys of electricity, 200 rubbish... You're a great swimmer. 700 is for the groceries. I'm gonna put this on social media in a minute so you can see it because I know it hurts. What's the percentage? I'll check it out. Over 40. Check this out. Check it out and you'll be surprised how expensive it is in Poland because you're here in the Seym. You've closed the windows, you don't see what's outside, and the elderly ask, "How do you survive?" I just want to say one thing: this is what your welfare looks like according to the PiS. That's what prosperity looks like. Thank you. [[Applause]] Start going to the store on your own, not send your wives.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u252	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not much time, really. But it's not elegant and rude to mention it to us when you're holding the fifth budget debate and it's average. You're the reason we have so little time. We mustn't say we didn't say anything. And you have to say it. The most important things, and this budget is one big lie, not missing the truth. In the fifth year of your reign, you have to say that this is a lie. It started with a lie. Four months ago, you said you had a budget ready and balanced. For people not from Warsaw: from the Prime Minister's office to the Sejm 15 minutes, 15 minutes, and this budget went 4 months. It is said that there is no turtle as free as Prime Minister Morawiecki, because the statement of his wife's property has been carrying here for almost a year. He promised, he didn't. [[Applause]] Another thing is that this budget is not sustainable at all. We got as much as we could. Minister Rosati has quickly shown a 75 billion hidden deficit in these materials. I'm curious how we're gonna finish working on this budget, how much it's gonna be. But things that weren't said today. Namely the budget is the budget. You say it's a budget of dignity. You say you're conducting a dignity revolution. First of all, I wanted to draw your attention: a decent life is not the same as a man's dignity. How can you talk about human dignity when you don't respect people who work, you despise them? [[Applause]] We are perhaps the only country in the world where teachers are raised by the increase in minimum wage. Disgraceful! I think we're the only country in the world where health workers with this collapse raise their wages by raising their minimum wage. [[Applause]] You manipulate numbers. You come here and you say, a million more for this, 10 million more for this, a billion more for this. Let's see how long it's been. I'll show you where the money is. You give people scraps, and at the Sejm, 575 million. Does anyone know if it's a lot or not? Dynamics? 141% In your time. Senate, 229. A lot or a little? The Seym is not a government project. Dynamics - 244. Two and a half times. How many senators did our power end? 100. How many are there now? 100. We've lowered the Members... Two and a half times? With the Senate - a slight change: you raised 2.5 times, but this year it will be less because you lost the Senate. IPN. Once the Institute of National Remembrance, now the Institute of Propaganda and not the national, but the PiS. Height - 170%. You're talking about human dignity? You give yourselves, not people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u254	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u255	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, the quote from Prime Minister Morawiecki: "Just don't go too far so as not to give us an excuse to amend criminal law." These words translate into a climate for entrepreneurship, company investment, R &amp; D expenditure. It is a testimony of a dramatic decline in the trust of the state in business, to business people, to people working. [[Applause]] Let me just remind you that entrepreneurship and companies are the salt and foundation of the economy. Between 2008 and 2016, the share of companies in GDP creation increased by 2.5 percentage points, to 73.6%. , mainly because of small and medium-sized companies. Their share of GDP in this period increased from 47.2 to 49.8. In 2016, the share of companies in GDP decreased by 0.4 percentage points compared to 2015. This is your development. Next, Poland has scored another, third already in the prestigious Doing Business ranking. In Doing Business 2020 we took 40th place. A year ago - 33, 2 years ago - 27. and since 2015, when we had the best position in history, we fell by 15 positions. [[Applause]] More and more regulations, worse and worse environments, less and less stable law also translated into the fact that in 2018 the average number of hours needed for tax settlements increased from 260 to 334. Large bureaucracy and increasing burdens are the reasons why more and more entrepreneurs are fleeing Poland. Those are the facts. You do not see that the first 9 months of 2019 resulted in information about 757 insolvencys of Polish companies against 723 in the same period of 2018. That's a 5% increase. Since 1 September, the so-called. a white list of VAT payers. Is that an easy thing to do? If the entrepreneur doesn't get to know the rules quickly enough, there are consequences. From January 1st, if the company makes a transfer of more than 15 thousand. PLN on account other than on the white list will not be able to include this amount in the cost of obtaining revenue. She will also bear the risk of joint and several liability [[Applause]] with his counterparty for tax arrears if he does not pay the tax due on the transaction. Finally, I would like to say that you are killing entrepreneurship, choking influence and economic freedom. You want to squeeze money out of business like a lemon. This is your survival budget. It's completely undevelopmental. Your budget only agrees with the tables on your computer. Lots of wanting, no references to economic realities today and in the future. Finally, a quote from Prime Minister Gowin: Entrepreneurs should grab their wallets. Right. Let me add that they should read exactly the laws and regulations you have prepared, especially what was written with a little print and an asterisk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Coalition. The most important department and what? One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Agriculture spending for 2020 is evidence of the electoral fraud of the PiS government. The share of national expenditure in the budget is 9029 million. I will remind you that in 2015, under the PO-PSL regime, it was PLN 9600 million. This money that the Law and Justice are planning to allocate to agriculture in 2020 will not be enough for the implementation of the 2019 electoral promises. Let me remind you, it's about cow plus and pig plus. 3250 million are needed for these programmes. That money, Minister, I don't see it in the 2020 budget. [[Applause]] They forgot. There is no money to prevent natural disasters (the bell), to fight the ASF epidemic, for organic farming. And there's no money to limit antibiotics. This is very important for Poland in the case of meat production. Consumers have been waiting for this for years. Any budget item for 2020 can see either waste or underfunding. This also applies to the real needs of Polish farmers who voted mostly for Law and Justice. This is how you treat Polish farmers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u258	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 56 hours 19 min 01]] Dear Members, I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 5 and 6 of the agenda. 95 Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list. How many speakers? How many? 95. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Telus proposes, after 2.5 minutes, so I understand. Yes, please, yes. Then we'll wait a little longer for the colleagues to join the list. How many minutes? Because of the number of applications, I propose 60 seconds to ask a question. 1.5. Of course, I can assure you that there will be no drastic interruption during the questioning. Can such rules be applied? Yes, we agree. Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u259	I would like to ask the Minister whether this year the budget is planned for grants to CSR units by way of the year 2019, because we introduced, in 2019, a historic amendment to the Fire Protection Act, which enabled the transfer of funds from the budget to activities other than strict rescue for CSR units - to educational, cultural and sporting activities, to promote the principles of first aid. If the funds that are left in the budget are not sufficient for this purpose, will the Minister of Finance remember this during the year during the implementation of the budget law - that is what I am asking, and that is what I ask - that such funds be developed in the 2019 model year? This decision was very well adopted by the TSOs, this money is very, very necessary for the functioning of the voluntary fire department in the field and therefore only such an accent I would like to lay down on this to keep this matter in mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the December report of the Foundation for Lawyers for Earth and WiseEurope, 45 billion PLN has been received in the energy sector in the last 6 years in the form of public support, most often not notified to the European Union. These funds usually served mostly not to modernise the energy sector, but to increase production, to finance our increasingly expensive coal and increasingly inefficient coal blocks. My question is: Are these funds worth 7 billion a year are again founded and hidden in the 2020 budget? And second question: Is there also a planned amount of 8 billion zlotys in this budget or 8 billion zlotys of additional costs that we will incur this year for non-compliance with the 15% requirement renewable energy (The Bell) resulting from the Paris Agreement? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u262	Thank you very much, Member. You will now speak with Wand Nowick, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u263	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My question concerns the establishment of the Silesian Center for Clinical and Scientific Prevention and Treatment of Environmental, Civilization and Ages. Professor Zbigniew Religion in Zabrze. It is very good that this project, this programme, is included in the state budget, it is an extremely necessary facility, but the question is: Why was only PLN 31 million foreseen for 2020? This amount is absolutely insufficient. Senior policy in Poland, as you know, lies. For 1 million patients there are two geriatrics, several hundred beds. We need the appropriate policy of the country as quickly as possible to speed up the establishment of this important centre. I therefore propose a 20% increase in the budget (Bell) for 2020. And I ask you to answer the question of whether the Minister will accept such an amendment. This is what the inhabitants and Zabrze, and the whole of Poland are waiting for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u264	Thank you very much, madam. The question will now be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. Sir, there's no envoy in the courtroom. Is Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederation present? There isn't. God bless you! Mr Richard Galla? There isn't. Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski, Law and Justice? There isn't. Oh... Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke so much about how women in Poland will live well during the next term of PiS. Unfortunately, in the budget it is completely unreflective. There is no sign of real support for women victims of violence, in particular domestic violence. There is no real support for women in need of medical assistance, in particular access to gynecological offices that are dying. Nothing's getting better about psychiatry. Retirement again, 13th pension - let's not kid ourselves, this is not a systemic change, this is not a solution that will equal this great inequality that is with women retired towards men retired. These aren't reasonable solutions. Hence my question: Where is the promised paradise on earth for women? Because it doesn't come from the budget. There's no money for women in this budget. And second question: If it's so good, why is it so bad that you're closing the Maritime Office in Slupsk? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u266	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left, will now take the floor. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In April, during a fair teacher strike, Law and Justice promised teachers a 6% increase since September 2020. It was a lousy promise. 6% This is a drop in the sea of needs, it is far too little for teachers and teachers to work safely for the good and development of children, but this is what the state has promised. So? And nothing. You didn't even secure that money in the budget bill. Today, at the last minute, you reported an auto-correction pretending that the money for these raises was secured. But in your budget, even after this self-correction, almost 700 million PLN is still missing for the already promised raises for teachers, not to mention securing money that would satisfy teachers, not to mention 6 billion for 15% (the bell) raises that the Polish school really needs today. I ask for a clear written answer to the following question: What is your lie? Will the fact that almost PLN 700 million for the promised increases have to find local governments somehow? Or is it that these 6-percent raises teachers aren't gonna see at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u268	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There isn't. Is Mr Piotr Pole, Law and Justice in the Chamber? You're welcome, sir. I'd like to ask you a question. There it is, there it is. He's a good Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u269	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! In recent years, especially last 2019, a very good echo... With a very wide, positive response he met in Polish local governments the program of the Fund for Roads Self-Government, from which the roads were financed. On the example of the Łódź voivodship, let me just say that, while in previous years the positive proposals - due to measures that could be distributed - were about 30, 40, in the last year these applications were positively considered more than 250, i.e. several times, almost six times the increase. I would like to ask the Minister whether this programme in this year, 2020 will be implemented on similar terms and with a similar percentage of funding. Because I'll remind you that before that it was only 50-50, and last year it was refunded up to 80% of the funds. And the question about the continuation of a good programme of guaranteeing security (the bell) internal, means very good cooperation with voluntary guards throughout Poland. Will voluntary fire guards be co-financed at a similar level? It's about the provision of various types of rescue and fire protection equipment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u270	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice boasts that for the first time it is to implement the budget without deficit. However, it is worth knowing the truth about the alleged success of the PiS government. Because apart from a few accounting tricks and a higher payout from NBP, the government actually reaches into the pockets of Poles - deep into the pockets of Poles. It will be from their pockets a patched giant budget hole, reaching perhaps up to PLN 70 billion. If anyone has doubts to answer the question of where the government will get the money, then we answer simply: from the pockets of Poles. Poles will pay for your irresponsible policy. So I ask government representatives to answer the following questions: Did Law and Justice introduce as many as 30 new taxes in the course of their governments? Is there a 10% increase in excise duty planned in the State budget for 2020? Has the last year seen an increase in prices of goods and services of 3,4% ? And whether the energy prices for Tauron and Enea customers will increase by more than 12% , and the customers of Energi and PGE - close to 11% ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer these important questions for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u272	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Marshal Czarzasty said on behalf of the Left, it is indeed a balanced budget, but we have the impression that unfortunately the budget is not real. I pay particular attention to items concerning special provisions. This is the amount of over PLN 20 billion. So in short, 5%. This budget is in reserve. You know what it's like with reserves. I'm particularly interested in one reserve. And my question is this: Is the Government of Law and Justice planning some elections in 2020 in addition to the presidential elections, because there is almost 600 million PLN there to hold elections and referendums? Let me remind you that only the presidential elections are planned. And second question. You're creating the Capital Investment Fund. 30% of the dividends of the Treasury companies will be created by the Capital Investment Fund. Nearly a billion zlotys will be outside the budget. My question (the bell) is this: What are the plans for spending nearly a billion zlotys in 2020? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u274	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How can we talk about a balanced budget when living practice indicates that there is a shortage of money in practically every area of the state's functioning? They are lacking in critical areas, such as the health system, where both for treatment and for staff salaries are missing, in education, where both schools and teachers' salaries are missing, in agriculture: bioinsurance, combating the effects of drought, there is a shortage of building an effective system of retention, the same with regard to the renovation of local roads. It's missing everywhere. In this situation, talking about a balanced budget is not only the PRL's painting of grass green, but also the peak of impudence. Ladies and gentlemen! Since you think you can afford anything, I will certainly be at this budget consistently guarding the implementation of investments such as the Tomaszow Mazowiecki ring road, the construction of the railway station in the Raw district, the construction of the second viaduct needed in Skierniewice (Dzwonek), as well as the construction of the S12 road or the completion of the S8 road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u276	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Some opposition representatives presented a great performance today. I'd say full-blown theater. Critics and advising us wouldn't be over if it weren't for time limits. In the issue of some is armageddon and total disaster, others relied on the absolute wisdom of the sejm minority, wanted to reduce or eliminate taxes, because they cared about the money of Poles, and at the same time regretted that various, very important goals of spending are too small. Dear Opposite! After all, you have already ruled: the Civic Platform, and the PSL, and the Left. You too. You guys rocked so well. Why didn't you do what you wanted us to do? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You had every right. And my question is what has already sounded like here: Is it true that this is the first balanced budget since the time of systemic transformation? Thank you. [[Applause]] That's not true. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u278	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to ask Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We were just talking about smog, we talked about the fact that every year one medium Polish city dies as a result of smog and smog-related diseases. It's not better. In the last 4 years in my family Tychy in mid-December PM2.5 pollution levels, PM10 do not fall below 600% permitted standards. You are promoting the programme for Silesia, and in this programme for Silesia there are several projects that are at least supposed to have a positive impact on air quality over our region: the programme mentioned here is pure air, but not only, it is also a project to reduce low emissions, a project to fight smog in multi-family municipal buildings or, finally, a project: emission-free public transport. In the latest report on the implementation of the programme for Silesia, these projects have only a few percent of the implementation in relation to the assumptions. What is the financing of these projects? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are other such projects envisaged? Thank you very much. Minister, what about...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u280	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of the Law and Justice: When will they start telling the truth and, above all, when will they start fulfilling their electoral promises? I'll go back to those 2015 promises. When's it finally gonna be done? On the other side it is that the Minister here said: return to proper financing of agriculture from the national budget at least 1.2% GDP. And what are the actual figures? In 2015, when the state took over the governments, the financing of agriculture was around 5%. And then we get worse: 0,48, 0.42 in 2017, sorry, 4%... But GDP is getting higher. In 2019 - less than 4%. Right now, in absolute numbers, it's even worse... What's the percentage? ...because in the budget we have Annex 8 (The Bell) for which agricultural and rural development expenditure and agricultural markets in 2019 amounted to 9178 million and in 2020 will amount to 9 billion with a small surplus. It's still less 98 grand. Let's not count the EU funds because you haven't negotiated them, so that's not the point. But it's 5.5% in total. More. Stable agriculture is well funded and the country is financing agriculture worse and worse in line with the promises made by the country to farmers in 2015. Elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u282	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice. There isn't. Is Mrs Claudia Jachir in the room? Yes, I am. I'm asking you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In relation to the budget, I have a question about when the Prime Minister and the Ministers have recently been shopping at a grocery store. The day before yesterday. If you ladies and gentlemen were shopping on your own, you'd know how much more expensive everything is, as it is with every shopping, even in a disclaimer. There are tragic increases. Within 3 weeks only the price of natural yogurt rose from 1.50 to 2.50. Which one? In Biedronka, I invite you to go and check. The product is located. Don't advertise Ladybug. Please don't argue with the Parliamentary Courts. The price of apples during the season increased from 2 PLN to 4 PLN, onions - from 1.50 to 4 PLN. These increases can also be seen after inflation, which has been the highest since 2012. In December 2019 inflation was as high as 3.4% on an annual basis as 2.6% November. You can give people even more money, you can bribe them with another election sausage in connection with the presidential election (the bell), but then inflation will go even further, and the value of money will fall even further. You're stealing from people. Isn't that what you're giving? Don't give? Do I really have to talk to you about the simple relationship between inflation, distribution and the fall in the value of money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u284	Thank you very much, Mrs. Messenger. I ask you to ask Mrs Monica Walej, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u285	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You said that you are presenting a balanced budget, but in my opinion it is an unsustainable bubble that does not even refer to the promises you made. At one time, for example, Minister of Maritime Affairs Marek Gróbaryczyk declared funds for deepening the watercourse within the Elbląg port on the occasion of the investment, which is the excavation through the Vistula Land. At present, it is estimated to be around 150 million. Question: "When will this amount be secured in the budget so as not to burden the self-government in Elbląg?" Sustainable bubbling also applies to rural areas. You promised to take care of rural areas, but the Polish village is active residents and residents. On several occasions they themselves build rural skyscrapers, but there is no e.g. sanitary facilities. What's going on out there is insulting civilization standards. Either they're in a mess or they're just gone. And my question is, do you plan to fund the sanitary facilities, attach the cesspools to the village halls? (BELL RINGING) You're talking about how you want to build roads. I have a question: Is there money on Via Baltica and the national road no. 16 Borki - Mrągowo. The tender wasn't settled because there's no money for it. There's money. But it's so you can build it. And literally the last question. It is the Civil Initiative Fund for NGOs. Will it be increased by 30 million? That is also the question of NGOs. Please respond in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u286	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! First question: What about financing these most needed investments on national roads? I would like to ask about the specific financing of the implementation of section of the national road No 11 from Poznań to Piła, with the necessary bypasses of my family Obornik and the estuaries in the Piłski district, because the announcements have been loud over the last years, while there are no concretes. I'd like to ask you about the funding for county hospitals, because they're barely gonna get sick. I would like to ask if the county hospital in Oborniki Wielkopolski, in my native Wielkopolska, will be able to count, like those managed by representatives of PiS, on subsidies from the special fund to the government? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would like to ask whether the government is even thinking about making up for what the local authorities have lost as a result of recent reforms. I would like to ask you to answer all three questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u288	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna ask the rulers about shame because they don't have it. I'm not gonna ask you about that disgust because they don't hate what they do. I'm gonna ask you if you're so afraid to lie. This budget is extremely lying, ignorant. Ignore market data, conceal the deficit, tax Poles' pension savings. And it's all in the name of political propaganda. And this fun is extremely expensive and pays mainly for it by Poles. They're already paying 12%. more for electricity, and it was promised here, from this speaker - Prime Minister Morawiecki promised - that this would not be the case. It also loses the entire energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the Fitch Agency reported that six leading energy companies at the end of 2019 had a deficit of PLN 53 billion and, as is expected, this deficit will increase. It is expected to amount to PLN 100 billion by the end of 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of looking for savings and solutions for energy companies (the bell), the government is looking for this money in the pockets of Poles. He has hidden the deficit, and the only deficit in this budget is the truth deficit, as Mrs Isabella Leszczyn said at the beginning of this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u290	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the authors of the budget, the rulers, because it is you today who take responsibility for the state's finances. How did you secure in the budget a decent salary for hardworking people in the administration of the courts and the prosecution's office? This is one of the most forgotten groups in the budgetary sphere, and these people do extremely hard work every day, although very often invisible. For many years the salaries of employees of this professional group have been frozen, and each year these employees have more and more due to the changing rules which impose additional obligations on the administration of the courts and the prosecution. Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a crisis in the justice system, and this is not just the result of the disgraceful attack of the PiS on the judges and on the courts. This is one of the factors that affect the crisis of citizens' confidence in the courts, as well as the dysfunctional organization of Polish courts' work. Is the government aware of this (the bell) that almost 20,000. out of 30,000. The law enforcement staff have quit their jobs in the last few years? This is a sick situation and it's a sick rotation, unusual in other budget sectors. There is chaos in the pay sphere of the judicial administration, unfair, unequal salaries. Good for yours, hungry for the rest of you doing ungrateful work. The judicial administration needs reform, but it also needs a decent wage for its employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u292	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u293	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There was talk of a balanced budget here today, but you have become accustomed, ladies and gentlemen, to this term, and it would seem that you do not pay attention to what is happening in local Poland, to local governments, to the current level of investment in local governments, which massively limits what they will be doing in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, this is happening, that is a fact. Let me ask you something specific. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not see it - I would like to ask you what happened to the drought payments for farmers in the Western Pomerania, who have been hit by disaster for the third time in a row, once by heavy rain, twice by drought. When are these farmers gonna get the money? Second question, regarding the S6 expressway from Koszalin towards Gdansk: When will we finally see the implementation of this road, ladies and gentlemen? I would very much ask for written answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u294	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Ms Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u295	I wanted to ask the Minister of Education a question. Unfortunately, he's not in the O.R. And I wanted to ask you why this government mocks teachers so cruelly, why it tramples on their dignity and just cheats on them. Well, in the morning, there was no mention of any increase for teachers. The government's self-correction has shown itself: since September 6% and for these 6% 100 million zlotys will be needed, because the government has increased education subsidies in the autocorrection. 100 million over four months is 25 million per month, divided by 523,000. teachers come out 42 PLN 70 per teacher, together with the costs of employers. Minister, even if we cut the number of teachers by 100,000. It's still 60 zlotys a month. Why are you cheating? Why are you giving us a budget that, as you say, is without a deficit, and really this deficit is hidden in different places, and you're throwing the cost of all your fanaberies (the bell) on a taxpayer, on local governments, on people who work hard? Lying, lying, manipulating and cheating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u296	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A balanced budget is associated with the sustainable development that we have in the constitution. And sustainable development is the development that serves people, the economy and the environment, which makes Poland grow in a sustainable way. Meanwhile, we have in our budget investments, which are megalomaniac, which are an excellent example of a poor allocation of funds and which are impossible investments. Examples can, of course, be multiplied. Today, for example. We talked about PLN 2 billion, about spending it on the propaganda tube of the ruling party, on the Central Communication Port we are to spend PLN 37 billion on poisonous Ostrołęka 8 billion PLN. Meanwhile, at least in my Pomorskie voivodeship in 90 localities you go an hour to the stop of communication (the bell), no public transport reaches 400. I have a question for the Minister whether he would consider a balanced budget as a budget that affects Poland's sustainable development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u298	Thank you very much. Ms Bożena Ironowska, the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, will now take the floor and ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you whether and how in this budget you will compensate the government for the deficit caused by the education bill. Self-governments, especially small ones, have to borrow. How will they be repaid? And second question: How are you going to help the county hospitals? Today, the debts of county hospitals exceed PLN 14 billion. Will there be any amount in this budget that will help local governments? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u300	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the mailboxes, our Members, there are postulates of self-government. These are the postulates from Ełk, from Chorzów, from the pole district, from Turku, from Konin. Local government officials everywhere demand funding adequate to the tasks imposed and ask us to take action to implement the demands contained in the appeals they submit to us. The situation is absurd, it is really a budgetary fraud, which results in PiS's electoral promises to finance the local government. This is unimaginable - PLN 50 billion are costs that will be borne by local governments: hospitals - 12 billion, education - gap of 23,4 billion, tax reductions - 4,84 billions. It is good that they are, these tax reductions, but if the government takes up any tasks, let it carry them out (the bell) responsibly, with its budget. If at the moment the local government is lacking as a result of your actions and your decisions, then as a responsible government you should return 50 billion PLN to the local government in this case. And what is the balanced budget? Budget at least minus 50 billion. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u302	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! In 2023 the 3rd European Games are planned in Krakow and Małopolska. This important event, as experts say, can cost organizers, local governments together with the government, about PLN 150 I would like to ask where the draft budget includes a multiannual programme or annual programmes that will support the organisation of this event. I would like to remind you that the efforts for this event were supported by the Polish government, and therefore participation and solidarity with local authorities should take place. Secondly, I would like to ask how the government will support county hospitals in terms of their extension, but also in terms of aid for investments carried out in these hospitals. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u304	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was such a statement that we are not speaking enough in this budget debate on agriculture, so I would like to ask you this question about the reasons for the systematic decrease in budget expenditure on agriculture, which is somewhere within the range of 5 and 7 billion in the last few years. This is important from the point of view of the many investments that need to be financed from the budget. Secondly, the financing of arrears as regards payments for drought payments. Ladies and gentlemen, recent Polish farmers are informed that, due to the complexity of the case, they will be dealt with within a month or the next two months. They ask what's complicated if the estimation protocol is made. The third issue is the issue of financing - and I think this is a serious issue - the slaughter of animals where the ASF occurred. These areas are, so to speak, preventively closed, no one wants animals from these zones, whether from ASF or from avian influenza, to buy them out. Farmers, of course, have a problem with this, but it may be necessary to create some kind of reserve, which will cause it to be bought from these areas at a lower price by processors, and the budget (the bell) of the country will finance it so as not to destroy it, because the alternative is that it will have to be disposed of. This is a big economic problem, for example. at the moment, as far as bird flu in Wielkopolska is concerned, this applies to up to 200,000. birds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u306	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Prime Minister has repeatedly come to Silesia and boasts about the programme for Silesia, which he announced on 21 December 2017. In this program in Silesia there are many objectives, among others. These include improving the conditions for the development of cities in the Silesian Voivodeship, in particular the activation of potential and strengthening of medium-sized cities that lose their socio-economic functions. These cities are mentioned by the Prime Minister in this programme for Silesia by six: Hawks, Rydultowy, Bytom, Świętochłowice and Sosnowiec. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister what funds were secured in the budget for this purpose. Of course, the issue of improving air quality is the standard when the Prime Minister arrives in Silesia. He spent some time on this subject during the last election. I would like to ask: What additional funds (the Bell) have been allocated to improving air in Silesia in this budget for 2020? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u308	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Trela, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The questions will be two, very specific, concerning my beloved city, the city of Łódź. The first concerns the S14 ring road and the additional exit. Minister, Prime Minister Gliński, during the election campaign, assured the public debates that such an additional convention would be held. Please specify precisely the budget lines, amounts and declarations that this investment will start in 2020. The second question concerns the beginning of the investment of the midway tunnel connecting two stations - Łódź Fabryczna and Łódź Kaliska. During the election campaign, Prime Minister Gliński also declared an additional stop that money would be on him. Please indicate precisely the source of funding, what is the amount, where is entered in the budget and when will this investment start? When will its implementation begin? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u310	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u311	High Izbo! How much does the white and red PiS team intend to spend on the protection of monuments in Poland? It puts all 53 million PLN at the disposal of the voivodships. I'll admit, an outstanding example of patriotism. You're giving proof. 750 PLN per object, excluding hundreds of thousands of landmarks and thousands of archaeological objects. Excellent. Seven times less than on the farm housewives' wheels and volunteer firefighters. Of course, without regretting the voluntary firefighters and the village housewives' circles. Well, that's a shame. When is this gonna change? When will it happen that the Podkarpackie voivodship will not get eight times more per historical object than the Dolnośląskie voivodship? And seven times more than Opole's. Please explain in writing these disparities. And one more thing. This is where Mr. Telus sat. But he didn't care that the government didn't contribute, he didn't pay the municipalities, he hasn't paid back the money spent on the Sołecki fund for many years. The deficit will already reach over 60 million this year. Perhaps you could also take care of this aspect of rural development. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u312	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to include in this year's budget the votes of the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. I would like to remind you that this is one of two voivodships in Poland, where Law and Justice achieves the best possible results. So it would be good for the government to return the favor. And we need for years a two-lane road connecting the capital of Podlaskie Voivodeship, Białystok, with Augustów. It is the road DK No 8 with the Bypasses of Suchowola and Sztabin. This route goes through over 3,000 a day. Tire. In 2008, there were 32 accidents, five people were killed, 40 people were injured. Prime Minister, please include this route in the new budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u314	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question. But I would like to know where the government has planned between 8 and 15 billion in 2020 for the statistical transfer of energy from renewable energy sources. Because the government itself admits that it will not achieve the intended goal of 15% the share of electricity production from renewable sources. However, last year, last year, the shares contracted from renewable energy sources for a billion zlotys. All tenderers offered prices lower than the average price for energy production, but only 68% of the volume and 50% were used. budget plan, because there were no more willing, because since 2016, thanks to your solutions, the cheapest wind energy has fallen, which currently produces electricity cheaper than conventional energy. At the same time (the bell) last year we broke the record when it comes to buying energy from abroad. We bought 10.6. TWh for 2 billion. And she's cheaper than ours, too, 'cause we're breaking records when it comes to the price of energy. It saves our power plants just because we don't have enough interconnectors and networks, because we would buy virtually all the energy cheaper, and that would be at least as good for consumers, because we produce expensive, bad, outdated and dirty ways. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u316	It is a pity, Madame, that your colleagues at your club did not listen to you ask questions. I'm sorry. What do you mean they didn't listen? What about your friends? And that's what the minister was supposed to listen to first. And what was the Marshal's conclusion? I don't understand. I now ask you to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My questions. In the name of a balanced budget, a falsely balanced budget, does the government still intend to shift the burden of promises to local governments? When, specifically, the education subsidy starts to cover 100% education expenditure, not like my native Poznan is only 50% ? Whether we can count on funds in the current budget for evening and Christmas aid centres which have effectively relieved SORs and which, like those in Dopiewa or in Swarzędzie, in my district, had to close at the end of the year, because the renegotiation of the contract was refused and only 10,000 were missing. A month for their operation? And my last question. During the campaign, Minister Emilewicz assured us that she would provide funds in the budget for restoring the functionality of the railway station in Poznań. Please indicate this item in the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u318	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you this because everywhere I hear that the revenue of local governments is decreasing and that subsidies and taxes are smaller, and the situation of budget records is exactly the opposite, in any case certainly in real terms no one gets less. I've put together the proceeds of these titles here in some cities, for example in my town, in Łódź. Don't you understand, man, that potentially more? For the last 4 years, actually for 5, there have been over 1 billion PLN more revenue. Half of this represents these social measures, while the others are: subsidy - 153 million 361, these are additional receipts from PIT year to year of course. So there's more or less? Of course, I'm asking about year by year. Less. Also next year, will there be more, or will any government get less? Shame. And I would like to ask, because also in Łódź there is an investment in (Dawn) health care - 1153 million total for all investment expenditure, how much money will be available at the Clinical and Dydactic Centre in Łódź next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u320	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each state budget is huge challenges, huge opportunities and social expectations on the one hand and, on the other, possible lost hopes. A minute is not enough to raise all the important issues, but I would like to ask if the draft budget for 2020 provides for measures to develop the concept of the expected construction of the S12 expressway in the section Kalisz - Leszno - Głogów, investment which is extremely important for security and economic development, but also to communicate this part of the Greater Poland and Lower Silesia land on the one hand with the west of Europe and the east on the other. I would also like to ask about the amount allocated to the modernisation of railway lines and what part of it will be allocated to the modernisation of the railway line in Leszno-Głogów section. Please inform whether the state budget secures the funds for the implementation of the lump sum paid to hospitals for the treatment and care of patients. The rates frozen at the level of several years ago do not in any way secure the real costs incurred by hospitals and thus translate into an increase in the debt of institutions. And finally, this year's 6% increase in teachers' salaries is a drop in the sea of needs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It does not reflect real needs in this area and certainly does not reinforce the role and importance of teachers in the country that should be placed on education. I'm not gonna mention the underprivileged education grant. Please reflect on this and answer the question in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u322	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Adrian Zandberg, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u323	Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget, by strangled by the deficit, you have satisfied the financial markets at the expense of unfulfilled social needs. And to be honest, when I look at this room, I'm surprised to see Minister Kowalczyk applauding it because I've known him from a slightly more pro-social point of view. I am surprised to see Mr Cymanski, who honors the neoliberal idol of zero deficit. As you can see, people's functions are changing. Many Members of the Left have already spoken about this unnecessary saving in health and at schools. I want to talk about another matter, modest, but symbolic. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish labour inspectors complain that they have low wages, that they lack money to act. Even there, in the inspection, you failed to take care of decent working conditions and today you have led to a situation where even there is a collective dispute. The result is that with these eternal savings the inspection is less efficient and in the years to come, as the statistics confirm, we have more and more garbage cans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Meanwhile, in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, you spend more money on IPN than on the State Labour Inspection. So my question to the ministerial benches, to the PiS benches is very simple: How is it, gentlemen, that you have money to lie to history and to protect the work of money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u324	I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u325	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This has already been a question from this room many times, but I would like to ask questions primarily about issues related to road infrastructure, which is the biggest problems that my voivodship, war, is facing. Kujawsko-Pomorskie. It is mainly about the bypasses of two beautiful Kujawski towns, Strzelna and Kruszwica. It's about the announced measures for 100 bypasses. I would like to see exactly where the funds for these investments are written in this budget, above all on issues related to design, environmental decisions. Also the question of the Brest Kujawski ring road. Where exactly are these funds written down? What will their implementation be like? How will these measures be secured for the years to come? And second question. As a former self-government officer, I would like to ask: How does the government intend to compensate for the losses of all cities, towns and municipalities in connection with your decisions on zero PIT rates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u326	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From year to year, local governments add more and more own resources to education. Self-government budgets, for example, are being burdened more and more. Therefore, I have a question: Is the government planning to increase education subsidies for local governments during the financial year? If not, does the government plan to introduce other aid instruments this year to relieve local governments from funding education? If so, what is it? And second question: What investments the government plans to make this year in the war. Silesian and what new investments is he planning to start? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u328	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Marcelin Zawisza, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u329	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! At the Health Committee meeting, I heard that the way in which health expenditure is calculated cannot be changed, because GDP cannot be estimated for 2020. The Ministry of Health can't, and the Ministry of National Defense can. According to the draft budget, the government spends 2,1% on the military. GDP from this year, i.e. 2020 this year. Meanwhile, the percentage of GDP for health care is calculated for 2018. So you're doing creative accounting. How is it that spending on airplanes, soldiers or even military pastoral ministry is more important than health care, than caring for citizens? You say they spend 5.09% on health care. GDP. If you didn't use this creative accounting, just count your health expenses as military spending counts, you'd have to announce that you want to allocate 4,68% to health care in 2020 GDP. So you're not fulfilling your own announcements - 4.7, not 5.09. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't cheat me, you don't cheat the opposition. You cheat patients who are severely ill, dying. You're cheating on Poles and Poles. The left submitted a draft law gradually increasing the expenditure on health protection to 7.2 and changing the way in which health expenditure is calculated. Will the government support this project? Will the government change the way the percentage of GDP is calculated to protect health and will you stop lying to citizens? If you need contact with the Ministry of National Defence - kontakt@mon. gov.pl. I'm also a helper. I'll show you where the GDP figures for 2020. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u330	The question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! S1 expressway, so-called. Bypassing Hungary's Górka and Milówka, it is crucial for international connections in the south of Poland for a direct connection to the Polish-Slovak border. The tender, repeatedly postponed and significantly delayed, took place with an underpriced estimate. An investment in which they will be created, among others. two tunnels built by mining method, as well as ridges and access roads, unfortunately, dear country, must cost. The tender took place at an unreally low amount of 1379 million, and in 2017, interestingly, the expected cost was 1 000 546 thousand. zł. Let us ask ourselves how such an investment can be made, given that construction materials have increased by nearly 40%. (The bell) and the investment cost estimate hasn't changed. I ask: Has real money been secured for this investment? One more question. Has the funds been secured for the demolishing of the Lake Żywietki? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u332	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! At all costs you are patching up the budget, while ensuring that you fight to improve the quality of life of all Poles. However, although the number of Poles living in poverty is increasing, you are reducing social aid expenditure by PLN 3.5 billion. This Decision shall enter into force on the day NIK has published a report confirming what we all know: dramatically underfunded social assistance centres are not able to effectively provide assistance to those in need, and it is mainly their responsibility to support seniors and families in crisis or anti-violence in a family whose scale is still increasing. The situation of people with disabilities is terrible. The Polish state is still unable to create conditions for independent life. It's easy to find out where the missing PLN 3.5 billion you're taking from social services went. You took them to realize benefits, including 500+, because the budget just didn't have enough money for everything. In order to find them, you would have to accept abandoning your own propaganda on a balanced budget. So tell me, how do you call a balanced budget, which is to give one hand what you take the other? What is the justification for such a drastic reduction in social assistance costs (the bell) when we need to increase them dramatically? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u334	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have a question for the government about the S16 route. It is a railway route connecting Gdansk and Warsaw. On this route in Iława, two overpasses were forgotten. This is the blockade of a 40-thousand-dollar city. I'd like to know when the government is planning funds for overpasses in this city. Many travelers are driving and waiting 15 and 20 minutes to pass through this city. The second thing I wanted to know was from the government. It was said at the previous meeting of the Sejm that the PIORiN employees received a raise of PLN 500 twice in 2019. Unfortunately, talking to these employees confirms that there were no such increases. Worse still, five voivodships, because these are the structures that are subject to the voivodship, received a fixed payment and have these 500 PLN entered permanently. The remaining voivodships received this payment once, only in 2019. These employees ask why there is discrimination between voivodships, whether it will be evened out and whether this 500 PLN will be permanently paid to those employees of the institution, which is called PIORiN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u336	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u337	I actually have a question for everyone, because as I listen to this litany of promises, what would you give money to, if you could, and how much money you would give, if you could, I'd just have my ears dry. Don't you realize that in order to give all this money, you have to take someone first to help someone, you have to do it first. Do you want to hurt anyone? Mrs. Beyat was just surprised that we were taking one hand here and giving the other one. What would you take from? That's the budget of the state that we take with one hand and give with the other. The discovery of America. That's how the public budget works. Congratulations on having finally come to this discovery of the Left. To colleagues from Law and Justice the question: Why do you think a large budget is good? The fact that more has been collected into the budget, you present as the heroics of financial inspectors, etc. It's bad, isn't it? It means that citizens have less money. For you to have more, someone must have less, so it is wrong that there is more money in the budget (the bell) rather than good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u338	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! One reflection at a time. After this debate today, I would like to say that the only decentralisation that has succeeded in the current government is the decentralisation of the deficit. Three questions. Firstly, this House in its previous term of office made a decision and improved the budget in such a way that there were 20 million for the construction of hospices in the Łódź Voivodeship, including of course in my city, Łódź, and then the government received this money with a light hand. So I ask you to reflect on this and remember what is the situation of this city, my city, and the voivodeship where there is not even one stationary hospice for adults so far. Second question about hospitals. Madam President Skowronska spoke about 14 billion missing money, it is about losses. Are you going to create a reserve so as not to destroy hospitals in which billions of local governments have invested? Finally, I would like to remind you that the western ring road of our city is being built (the bell), the town of Łódź, and the Łódź Łódź will not enter this ring road because you have eliminated three knots. So I'm asking you to reflect on this, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u340	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Małopolska for several years there has been an initiative of cultural workers of the Department of Culture. Dziady, because the earnings of employees of theatres, museums, cultural institutions are simply grandfathered and in Małopolska, and in all voivodships in Poland. Often, people after two faculty earn the lowest national or work in trash cans. At this point I must also mention scandalously low earnings so-called. technical personnel. And it's not. It's just a case of culture workers. For example, social workers and social workers have long been demanding increases and talking about difficult working conditions. These voices go into a vacuum, and you can see that when you analyze this draft budget. Don't cultural workers, social workers deserve stable jobs and decent wages? What about the raises in these sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u342	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not see Minister Gliński, Deputy Minister Sellin, but I will ask questions. The first is: What funding is the Polish government going to allocate to co-financing the European Solidarity Centre in Gdańsk? [[Applause]] Will it be necessary to repeat the public fundraiser this year? I would remind you that the Polish government, specifically the Ministry, is the co-financeer of this cultural institute. The second question is related to the recently appointed national institute, with the participation of Minister Sellin, I apologize, the Institute of Solidarity Heritage, perhaps not yet national. The question is: What measures is the Polish government going to allocate to finance this project? Point a: Will this include the purchase of land, point b: construction and equipment? I ask not without a goat, because for several days in Gdansk, as is known from well-informed sources, the search for an attractive, inexpensive plot is ongoing in the area of the station. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd appreciate your written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u344	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Transport is an important element of the economy's bloodstream. Without a well developed public transport network, we are doomed to uneven development of rich agglomerations and poor peripheries and to exclude millions of Poles and Poles from access to work, education or culture. My question concerns the Bus Development Fund, which I understand is to respond to the problem of transport exclusion that we are dealing with in many regions of the country. How have the financial needs of the fund been assessed to improve real access to bus connections? On the basis of what analyses, strategies, plans, consultations with local governments or specialists? Have priority areas where this need is greatest been identified and aid for local authorities is envisaged if they are unable to cope with the use of funds from the Fund? How does the government intend to monitor the implementation of this task (the Bell), and how does it intend to react if the funds are used to a small extent? I will ask you to answer these questions in writing. Finally, consider: How can you talk about any balanced budget if you don't know exactly what money is spent on, what are these expenses at all, and what scale of the problem are we talking about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u346	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Mateusz Bochenk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Expansion of the S1 expressway in the Sosnowiec region, where today employment is located about 10 thousand. people, as well as the construction of a new road connecting Euroterminal in Sławkow with the express road already mentioned by me, are some of the most important tasks for which the inhabitants of Zagłęb Dąbrowski expect to be realized. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the following situation: local roads are being run over by trucks, which poses a real danger to the inhabitants. So my questions are: What funds will be secured in the 2020 budget for the implementation of these investments? When will the agreement between Sosnowiec and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways finally be implemented, establishing in the first stage the implementation by the city of documentation (The Bell) on the junction on this road, by the general management - the extension of the road? In this case, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about politics, it is about the safety and comfort of people's lives. I hope you'll finally understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u348	The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I asked these questions after the Prime Minister's exposé, and I asked for a written reply. I didn't get an answer. I repeat my questions about an underestimated education grant. It's already been mentioned today. Colleagues raise this issue, which is simply outrageous. I'll take the example of Poznan. Poznan receives 52% at the moment The amount of the education subsidy due is 570 million. This is cheating the taxpayer because the taxpayer pays taxes so that the state budget will finance the 570 million, because it's up to the state budget. In the meantime, you're transferring it to the local government, the local government has to pay salaries to the teachers. At the moment, 80% of the teachers' salary is enough. This has not yet been in the history of reborn self-government. We delete it as self-government officials (the bell), I say it as an ex-governmentman, programs that are necessary and which are the tasks of the self-government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u350	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My amendments to the state budget are kind of like an endless story. First of all, an amendment on the national Alzheimer's programme. There are 470 thousand in Poland. patients with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. The World Health Organization has committed Poland to prepare such a plan and implement it. When's the Alzheimer's plan? Will it be included in the State budget for 2020? And the second thing, Warsaw. Warsaw can be liked. Our beloved government, I would like to remind you of the investments that are needed. First of all, Sinfonia Varsovia and the music center. [[Applause]] The second issue is the Museum of Modern Art and the Theatre of Diversity. The third case is a show and sports hall for 20,000. people who will be able to play international tournaments. Another issue is the construction and modernization of the stadium Skra, athletic, and, last, modernization (The Bell) of the Stegna skating track. Warsaw and Poland are waiting for these investments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u352	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Let them do their job, why wait? Please don't argue with the Parliamentary Courts. The question is now asked by Mr Andrzej Szejna, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u353	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The money we spend on health care or defence should be spent wisely, which is why today I'm betting that instead of the Territorial Defence Army, we should invest in the e-defence army. Today there is an economic and political struggle on the Internet. There may be a blackout at any time, but we spend PLN 1.5 billion on the Territorial Defence Army. The Bundeswehr recruited 13.5 thousand. soldiers fighting in cyberspace, France - a dozen thousand, and we invest in people who run for fun in the woods. Oh! I encourage you to think about it. If we want to increase the safety of Poles, let us invest in modern technologies. I'm asking you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u354	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask Mr Glinski a question. He's gone, but you're Minister Lewandowski, and I understand he's gonna pass it on. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister if he was not ashamed, because today and tomorrow we throw a light hand at 2 billion PLN of public television, and the Minister's budget for culture, the protection of monuments, all the institutions, the wages mentioned here is 2600 million. If I were Prime Minister, I'd be ashamed. Shame! And the second thing I wanted to say - my fellow countryman Tomaszewski provoked me, who thinks that this is good in local governments - about which I wanted to ask. If 2 billion compensate for alleged losses when paying a subscription to public television, then when - this question to the Prime Minister - the government will propose self-government compensation for all losses which [[Applause]] Did you give it to the local authorities? I don't know if there's enough $2 billion, but it would be good to at least get started. [[Applause]] It's not enough and it's 20.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u356	The question is now asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to find out, on behalf of the residents, if there's money in the budget for health care, education, transportation, antiquities. In particular, I am interested in the national road S1 in Sławkow, the voivodeship roads: DW910 in Będzin, DW790 in Dąbrowa Górnicza and the Zawiercie district. I am also interested in whether there will be funds in the budget for the pre-school and nursery complex in Siewierz, Zagłębiowskie Centrum Oncology w Dąbrowa Górnicza, modernization of railway lines in Sosnowiec, Dąbrowa and Będzin and for the protection of monuments in Zagłębie, among others. For the royal castle and the museum. Please respond in writing. These are investments and tasks for over 600 million PLN, which will really make life easier for all inhabitants of Zagłęg and Śląskie voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u358	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr PiS, as you can see, very many present during this debate, have been bragging for several months that the 2020 budget will be balanced. You've made a fetish out of it. Although it has already been proven in this House today that a balanced budget is fiction. And I ask the Prime Minister, "Will you, thanks to this fictional, balanced budget, get at least one person out of over 2 million Poles and Poles out of extreme poverty?" At the same time, I will remind you that in the last year, contrary to your propaganda, the number of Poles living in extreme poverty has increased. Or will a fictitiously balanced budget make Poles wait to see a specialist doctor for less than six months? Why don't you make every kid eat warm soup in school that doesn't have to be driven all over town because there's gonna be a modern cafeteria in school? Or maybe for the first time, you'll fulfill your responsibility to finance education (the bell) instead of burdening local governments with it? Why don't you make sure the women in the smaller towns don't have to drive a few dozen kilometers to the gynecology office? Unfortunately, the answer is no. I suppose the news editor of the TVP has already prepared a strip about Morawiecki's miracle, which has prepared a balanced budget. E.g. for this you will give the Prime Minister of TV 2 billion PLN this year. Prime Minister, please understand that through accounting tricks and transfer of money between ZUS, OFE, NBP and the state budget none of the everyday problems of Poles and Poles will disappear. Your ego will grow. But everyday problems We're all gonna stay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u360	The question will now be asked by Mr Przemysław Koperski, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u361	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Under the PiS regime, we see a surge in debt of Polish hospitals. According to data from the Ministry of Health, this debt has already reached a record 14 billion PLN. As the counties indicate in their report, 92% county hospitals are indebted to a minimum of PLN 5 million each. In Bielsko-Biała, because of lack of money for specialists, a branch of neurology was closed. The debt-bearing Silesian Hospital in Cieszyn, saving itself, asks the city to be exempt from property tax. The Żywietki Starosta already knows that the further debt of the local hospital will result in the bankruptcy of the district in this term of office. Only in 2019 is close to PLN 15 million. Councillors from Pszczyna appeal to neighbouring local governments for financial support for the newly rescued district hospital. The Left has a cure for health care. This is an increase in funding to 7.2% GDP. But do you have a cure? Do you have money, Prime Minister, for hospitals in Bielsko, Cieszyn, Pszczynie and Żywiec? Or are they supposed to be on their own, and the Żywietski district is about to go bankrupt (the bell), saving its hospital? Please respond in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u362	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the last two terms I was a councilman of the city of Krakow, a local governmentman, hence I look at this country's balanced budget from the perspective of the local government. I have to say, from a self-government perspective. Unfortunately, he doesn't look so good. So one at a time. Lowering the rate to 17% is a loss of over PLN 3 billion for local governments. Next: doubling the cost of obtaining revenue is a loss of another 2 billion PLN. Plus, there's a tax exemption for people under the age of 26, and that's another billion zlotys. If we take 12 biggest cities in Poland, the total losses are PLN 2 billion. That means a disaster for local investment. The Polish Metropolitan Union called on you to compensate for this loss. She specifically proposed to increase the share of local governments in Drink by 6.54. So? And of course nothing. Because for you, a balanced budget is centralization, demagogy and accounting tricks. And unfortunately, you're doing this mainly to satisfy your electorate's needs (the bell) to increase your poll posts. My question is, what are you gonna do to put an end to this deficit that you're creating in local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u364	The question will be asked by Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2018, just before the local elections, Prime Minister Morawiecki promised 103 billion for the Clean Air programme. Last year we spent just 1 billion, or less than 1%. In order to spend the promised PLN 103 billion in 10 years, we should spend at least 15 billion next year. I'm asking you where the money is. I reviewed the entire budget bill and found no record of the Clean Air programme at all. I'm asking where they are. I also want to ask you how many billions of zlotys you're going to use to fight the smog. The second question concerns the landfill of hazardous waste in Zgierz. There's a ticking environmental bomb in Zgierz, 200,000. Mercury barrels, combat gases, carcinogen waste. They're unprotected, leaking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you planning on doing in this case, what kind of repair program are you planning? The disposal of these waste will cost PLN 5 billion. Please inform me in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u366	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, the state budget also includes a number of special-purpose funds that are attached to this budget. I'd like to say two, because these are budgets. Or funds that don't seem to have bottoms. Solidarity Fund - 17 billion deficit. I understand that you have decided within 4 years to zero out the Demographic Reserve Fund, which Poles have been making up for 20 years, and where they have raised PLN 45 billion. You decided to clean it to zero in four years, just steal from the Poles. Second Fund, Self-Government Road Fund - deficit 4 billion. What's your plan? Are you going to finance these tasks, or in November you're going to tell the local government: there isn't, aren't we going to pay? You knew right away. And the third question, so Małopolskie. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your colleagues adopted a budget in the voivodship last week with a deficit of PLN 283 million, that is 15% the budget deficit. If this goes on, they won't make it to the end of their term because they're just gonna run out. Is the Minister of Finance going to support his colleagues with regard to their inability? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u368	The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Janczyk, who is speaking here, said that our budget proposals are a messed-up voice. I would even believe that, but I would kindly ask you to submit all the budget proposals that were government proposals that you operated in the election campaign. As for my voivodship, I would like to ask where the funds for the construction of the Strzelna ring road are specified in this budget, for the construction of the Sępólna Krajński ring road, where there are funds for the construction of the S10 route between Bydgoszcz and Torun. And the last two cases. Namely, I would like to ask where is the money saved for the construction of the campus of the Music Academy in Bydgoszcz. And there's another line. During the campaign for Europarlament, the Prime Minister announced the construction of an athletic hall in Bydgoszcz. I would like to remind you that in the hall championships of Europe Poland won 5 gold medals, including 3 medals by athletes from Bydgoszcz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no proper hall in Bydgoszcz. The world champion, the champion of Europe in light athletics, trains in a hall with a height of 5 m, while the world jumps above 6 m. So where is the money for these investments? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u370	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u371	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I would like to ask if the 2020 budget will finally include money for Podlaskie national roads such as S19, Podlaskie sections of the S19 road along the Via Carpatia road with Siemiaticz, Bielsko Podlaskie, Zabłudowa or on the national road No. 8 from Bialystok to Augustów. I don't know if you know this, but these are the ways of death. There's an accident on them every week, and it's time to build these roads. You have promised in many election campaigns that you will deal with this important problem, but unfortunately nothing is happening. In the election campaign, Minister Adamczyk was in Bielsk Podlaski and talked about the fact that in December they will be decided, the first tenders will be announced. These tenders have not been announced until today. The next question I would like to ask is the exclusion of communication in the war. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Will there be funds in this budget for more PKS connections from municipalities such as Michałówowo or Grodek? Will there finally be more calls from Hajnówka to Białystok? And another point I would like to raise is education subsidy. Ladies and gentlemen, local authorities this year are suffering enormous losses due to the reduction of PIT and the reduction and zeroing of PIT for young people. Will there be money in this budget to compensate for these losses to local governments? And will there be money in this budget to compensate for the loss of reform and even the deformity of education that you have made to local governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u372	The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the war. Kujawsko-Pomorskie, especially in the Bydgoszcz region, there is a very high risk of air pollution emissions, which is mainly due to the fact that houses are heated by coal. There is a huge need for investment support when it comes to replacing old furnaces with new ones. The Law and Justice government has repeatedly promised more money to fight smog, and it is still, unfortunately, a drop in the sea of needs. Please state in writing what funds the government is planning to allocate to support the fight for clean air, with a particular focus on the war. Kujawsko-Pomorskie, at the same time asking for an additional dozen million zlotys in the budget for the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region and the city of Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u374	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every state budget is a huge challenge and hope. Hopes for the better, especially if the Prime Minister is talking about a balanced budget and equalising opportunities between regions. Meanwhile, this balanced budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a very low resource for health care, resulting in the closure of hospitals or branches. I invite the Prime Minister to Lublin to the Department of Breast Cancer Surgery of the Provincial Specialist Hospital. Cardinal Wyszyński. Meanwhile, this balanced budget, ladies and gentlemen, is to take funds from cities on the rights of the county to build local and voivodeship roads. Since 2020, the cities on the county's rights will not receive a zloty from this program. This is a balanced budget. Meanwhile, this balanced budget, ladies and gentlemen, is to take (the bell) educational money from local governments. This Decision shall enter Lublin was not paid about PLN 190 million. Let the city go to court. I ask the Prime Minister: How much money has the government allocated to level the gap between regions? How many for the poorest regions such as Lublin region? Because the current form of the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a budget of expensive and social injustice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u376	The question will now be asked by Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the proportion of older people, especially at the age of 60+, is steadily increasing in the population. For this reason, I take very negatively the government's actions, which seem to be missing the needs of seniors. Let me just remind you that these tasks include primarily the activation of older people in the field of cultural, educational, recreational and caring activities, as well as health-promoting activities. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister the question: Does the government intend to increase the funding of the Senior+ programme, for example by transferring part of the funds from the Church Fund? The second question I'd like to ask you. As a Member from Jelenia Góra, I am concerned about the possibility of the progressive exclusion of the transport region of Jelenia Góra. Discussions on the construction of the Jelenia Góra connection with the S3 expressway have been going on for a long time. It is not only tourism in the region but also a number of economic problems that have a negative impact on putting off the construction of this section. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask if the construction of this road will begin and when we can expect it to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u378	Thank you. I ask Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're still discussing the budget. We must all say that this is not a good budget for Poland. It's not a development budget, it's a stagnation and survival budget. Best in 30 years. Unfortunately, in my opinion, it does not solve social problems, such as health care and education. Nor does it solve the problems of the elderly. Investment funds are extremely small if we compare this with other countries of the European Union. Therefore, I am asking for funds and investments in the case of Eastern Poland. It is about roads 12 and 17, about the Chełm ring road, about the extension of border crossings in Dorohusk, in Hrebenn, about the parking lot for trucks, because recently the railway of trucks to the border had thirty kilometres and also about the border crossing in Zbereż. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today you voted 2 billion PLN for the PR agency. I guarantee you that if you transfer these funds for the development of Eastern Poland, the results will be much, much better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u380	I would ask you to ask Mr Wiesław Buz, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the election campaign, emissaries appeared several times in Rzeszów to the government in the persons of Minister Ziobra and Deputy Minister Warchoł, who announced to the residents of Rzeszów and Podkarpacie by flashlights of cameras and television cameras that they would take action to transfer Lubomirski Castle in Rzeszów to residents, tourists and culture and that they would build a new building in Rzeszów for the purposes of the district court. The President of Rzeszów and the City Council have made commitments on this matter to transfer a plot and a significant financial contribution to carry out this task. How and when will the government fulfill these promises from the election campaign? How will this work if this task does not exist in the draft budget for 2020? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to present a timetable for the work of the Ministry of Justice or the Government in order to fulfil this expected electoral promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u382	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u383	Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to ask you a question about the state's income. There is one point that concerns one company, one sub-region, the sub-region of the Copper Basin. Because income from the tax on some fossils is dedicated to one company, i.e. KGHM. That's 1 000 700,000. zł. This tax has already lost its meaning when it was assigned. Back then, there was a big public finance crisis. I would like to say that you have promised, in the words of Prime Minister Szydło, that this tax will actually be abolished. You didn't keep your word. Today we see in the draft budget that this tax is still at the expense of employees, at the expense of KGHM, at the expense of really larger systems, which increase the cost of mining Polish copper. Today in ZG Sieroszowice we are dealing with a huge environmental problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the water that's flooding the mines. I would like you to answer the question of when this tax will be abolished and will you keep your word? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u384	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a balanced state budget for 2020. I have a question: And why, if we have such a good economic situation, have you not dealt with the farmers since July last year? You have been missing PLN 1.5 billion and you are doing all the tricks, including the voivodeship's decisions, that the proposals are being dealt with just as they are due to the lack of funding. Farmers ask: " What's next about this case? You asked Pasha about the S11 and the Obornik bypass and the estuary bypass. When are you guys gonna start this case? You were the first to promise this to the people. The people of this district don't believe you anymore, because that's the situation. Mr Rosati calculated and showed how we have the budget (the bell) balanced. He added 75 billion, but you have not added one more question: the debts of hospitals and, above all, those accounts that you have - I am almost done, Marshal - to be dealt with. High Izbo! You can talk about the debt of cities and, as it is said, doing things at the expense of local governments. I have a speech and an appeal for all of us, to all of us, addressed by the City Council of Ełk and not only, also by the Mayor of Śrem. What about the trash? Are you going to ignore these matters? Are you going to help them too, local governments? When you have an idea to lower taxes, you also need to have an idea about how to balance the budget with these local governments. Time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u386	The question will now be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am delighted that today, on behalf of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, is Deputy Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. I hope that today, when discussing the 2020 budget, he remembered that he had promised in 2018 money to rebuild the national road no. 7 within the city of Radom. Where are they? Minister, I look forward to your commitment from 2018, from this loud conference you promised, as President Radom's candidate, that money. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to know from the Minister of Health how much money he saved for the hospital, specifically for the hospital in Radom. The hospital, which, despite the fact that the Members of the Law and Justice sitting in this Chamber had informed, said, promised: you will start building a rehabilitation center, we will certainly help. Help me. I specifically ask: How much money in this budget for 2020 did you put into the already built Rehabilitation Centre in Radom, but also into such (the bell) necessary for the University of Technology and Humanities clinical units, which could be established at the Municipal Hospital in Radom? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a huge deposit of nitrocellulose in the Pawns. How much money in the state budget to liquidate these deposits, all those old waste from the gunpowder factory in Pawns was left behind? How much money did you save for this purpose so that, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said in the exposé, there would be no bombs under Polish families? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u388	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Kotula, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I read the budget plan very, very carefully and I wondered how it is possible that children's and youth psychiatry is dying in Poland, and from the budget the Catholic Church gets 140 million for the Church Fund, although the support of the state to the Church in various forms reaches billions, let alone IPN - 423 million. Suicides are the second cause of death among children aged 13 and over. The state of Polish psychiatry is deteriorating overnight. More troops are disappearing from the map. In March 2019 a psychiatric unit of a children's hospital was almost closed on the street due to lack of staff. Pebbles and Wigures, and at the end of 2019 all doctors working in the psychiatry department of the Voivodship Psychiatric Hospital in Gdansk submitted their statements. At the moment, 437 children's psychiatrists work in Poland, and according to WHO standards they need at least twice as much. In Poland we have more than 600 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] children in need of mental health assistance. Many institutions are unable to achieve financial stability or are doing so at the expense of people working beyond their power. Meanwhile, in the budget of the state, which speaks so much about the protection of life, the Catholic Church consistently receives huge financial support in the form of the Church Fund, in the amount of 140 million, to this financial relief, grants for religious lessons, exemption from tax, preferential conditions for obtaining land plus huge Ministry support. The Catholic Church is not a state institution and is able to finance itself, unlike the above mentioned psychiatry of children. You call yourselves the defenders of children's lives, so get involved in financing their mental health so that children living in Poland can get adequate help as soon as possible. In this connection, I propose to transfer an additional 40 million from the Church Fund and 40 million from the IPN budget to support, in fact, the reconstruction of Polish psychiatry and youth. We have written, ready to implement a pilot program of comprehensive and coordinated psychological and psychiatric care for children and young people in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. I would like to ask: Are you going to support him? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u390	The question will be asked by Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] At the same time, I would like to ask you to move the discussion out of the Chamber, because some of your fellow Members are disturbing those who wish to ask a question in peace and silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that good law is needed for the good functioning of the justice system. With this adoption by the majority of the parliament in this and the previous term, we all know it's wrong. It is not good, also with regard to finances, which, as well as good law, are needed for the proper functioning of the justice system. So I have a question for the Prime Minister, how he sees the introduction of new technologies in the draft budget, the improvement of the work of justice, as he sees the remuneration for many of the secretariats of the courts, administrative staff, the increase in these salaries. Because it's a very low wage for responsible and important justice work. Many people who will gain work experience (The Bell) in court, in a short time, having this experience, receive offers with a much higher salary. How can we talk about improving and developing justice in this situation? That's one area I wanted to ask you about. And the other is environmental protection. The Prime Minister was a very frequent guest in the Silesian Voivodeship recently during the elections. He then talked about various ideas for the Silesian voivodship, also when it comes to environmental protection. This voivodship belongs to the most polluted. Therefore, I have a question: What measures and how long will be devoted to improving the situation, the lives of inhabitants in this voivodship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u392	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government saves on health, education and science. They won't save money on military chaplains, territorial defenses or monuments from the IPN. But funding monuments - an important thing, especially in the context of rather cemetery monuments, because apart from the great extinction of species we also have the extinction of Poles. If we look at the natural growth of Poles, we have the lowest since World War II. The average survival of Poles has been reduced due to the poor condition of underinvested health care and due to smog, the bad air that Poles breathe. I asked the Prime Minister on the exposé occasion how he was going to fight air pollution, water shortages, because we have the lowest water supply in Europe, water access is at Egypt level. I asked about 350 illegal landfills of toxic waste, these are government estimates. Where is the money to save Polish air, Polish water and fire protection? 'Cause we're gonna have Australia. The biggest drought is in Poland and in my Lubuskie voivodship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u394	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! GDP growth is expected to reach 3.7% in 2020 , inflation - 2.4% and inflation in the last quarter of 2019 was 3.4%. Over PLN 40 billion is one-off income. The sustainable budget we are talking about here in 2020 is a lie. Do you know that in 2018 14 countries of the European Union already had a budgetary surplus? Do you realize that due to such a structured budget, inflation may increase and consequently increase the interest rates of the National Bank of Poland? Every second person in debt (the bell) will just feel it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u396	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister, but I will ask this question anyway, because in Lublin the Prime Minister very often appears at the opening of various roads, he cuts the ribbons with Mr Sasin, in fact very quickly these roads are opened, especially the one from Lublin to Warsaw, despite small difficulties, although I also do not think that this is due to the current government. Whose is it? The previous ones, my fellow Member, certainly. I'm sure. So, the question is, what about the Zamość and Chelm ring road? Chelm is waiting for the road S12, Zamość for the road through Krasnystaw to Lublin, basically for the bypass. Voivodeship? Please don't disturb me. There are still ideas, plans. Contractors cannot communicate with cities, cities with plans and this merry-go-round continues with the best. And who's in charge of this town? Really, the PiS president. What do you say? There you go, check it out. When can we expect those promises, or 100 bypasses, to finally come true? Ha, ha, ha. Exactly. Please don't discuss it. Prime Minister, I'm sure the Prime Minister will answer when the 100 promised bypasses appear, among others. in Eastern Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u398	The question will be asked by Arkadiusz Ivanik, Parliamentary Club of the Left. No, no. No, I'm still here. And I apologize to you, my fellow Member. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. Double time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to ask if it is not so sometimes that if the budget is actually balanced, it should be 100% cover expenditure that has been caused by the political actions of the authorities? And if that is the case, shouldn't he have a real reflection also in the potential budgetary sustainability possibilities in local governments? Of course that's the way it's supposed to be. What's it like? That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. And here I have a whole bunch of evidence, because I went to the trouble of gathering information that is still coming from local governments from my district 38, pilski, from Wielkopolska, and I asked them to give me just those tasks that were imposed by the state and not financed. In order to get at least a presentation of the parts, I will focus on only one thing - the non-financing of the increase in salaries in education and educational expenditure. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. Municipality of Lubasz, 7.5 thousands. residents (Bingle), gaps - 1500 thousand. zł; Saw, gaps - 4665 thousand.; powiat pilski - 6,6 Million; Czarnków - 812 thousand. and 2 million more needed for educational infrastructure; Czarnków County Old Town - 4,5 Million. And, ladies and gentlemen, here's some interesting information. The mayor of the Greater Poland Cross informed me that he was short of PLN 5.5 million for wages, but at the same time he received money from the Fund for Roads on the roads, which you are very proud of. Do you know how much? Two hundred and twenty-four thousand. 5.5 million PLN of expenditure was caused by decisions of the state budget and 240 000. He got it in return. And thank you for that? Perhaps he would have made a lot more of these roads if you were giving money for what needs to be done. The reed - similarly, Walking, ladies and gentlemen, Poławy - I no longer read quotas - Evacuation, Veľen, Wągrowiec, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the deficit of the state budget, here among others. It's been moved. You have shifted your balance to the imbalance of local governments. This is an outrage. We will, of course, be making adjustments to make up for this money to local governments. Thank you. I will tell you more about the bypasses of the saw, the estuaries, Obornik, S11 from Poznań to the saw. Today I asked this at the Committee on Infrastructure. The Minister could not answer when these tasks were carried out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u400	The question is now asked by Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, parliamentary club of the Left. I can't see. I would therefore ask you to ask Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the draft budget, the education subsidy for 2020 is expected to increase by about PLN 4 billion. Local government officials, of course, without denying this increase, however, indicate that the increase in subsidies is not acceptable to the increase in educational expenditure. The Polish Cities Association estimates that there will be a shortage of nearly 25 billion. And it goes, among other things. the increases introduced since September 2019, the further planned increases, and the failure to take into account expenditure on education for the increase in the minimum wage. The local government says simply: This growing gap in education ruins their budgets, threatens the development and implementation of investments. If it's so good, why can't we make the amount of the education grant real? Because in the end, the missing billions will be paid for by the inhabitants of individual municipalities and cities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u402	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, The state budget is like a kind of hoax. There's no deficit, but there's no money either. Education is limping. Polish schools received much less money, but the government does not care about it, because the government has a poor relative who will pay for all this, i.e. local governments. And to local governments, education subsidies aren't even enough to pay, because the minimum wage had to be increased. Another problem is the means for monuments. My region of Warmia and Mazury is flooded with monuments, and the voivodeship's budget pays 900 thousand. It's just that. This is the least of all regions. Another problem is pay in the area of culture, theatres, museums. There employees, actors, but also administrative and service staff (The Bell) have the lowest salaries. I have a question: How does the government intend to compensate local governments for the costs incurred in carrying out the tasks entrusted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus Raś. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. There is no country. I ask you to take the floor to ask Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u405	Firstly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, like many ladies and many Members, about the matter of paying for the debts of hospitals in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2018. It is the Treasury that should cover these debts, and there is no money in the current budget. Many Members have spoken about the cost. The inflation rate you are talking about is not accurate at 2.5%. Market analysts indicate that it will be around 3.5%. On the representation fund of the Minister of Justice: The Minister of Justice spends money or spends money on the 30th anniversary Court of Appeal in Rzeszów, organizing a concert. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many such concerts will be performed or organized by the Minister of Justice? I am also referring to the money for the Lubomirski Castle, promised in the election campaign. It's not in the budget. What funds will be allocated to the construction of the Court of Appeal in Rzeszów to transfer Lubomirski Castle to local government? There's something else I want to ask the Minister of National Defence. In that term, there was a rumor that you would buy black hawks at a factory in Mielec. How many of those black hawks... Or maybe, will you come and say that you will not buy those helicopters? I would like - as you come and say that you will buy - so that you will also come and say that these investments, these purchases, will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u406	The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. I would therefore like to ask Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u407	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Ministers! One of the government's flagship projects is to restore local bus connections. The budget allocated 800 million PLN per year. By 2021, the government wants to make additional payments to carriers a maximum of 1 PLN to the vehicle km, and in the following years it is to be 80 gr to the vehicle km. For a long time this simply cannot be profitable due to rising depreciation costs, fuel prices, labour costs. In fact, the cost of one car is at least PLN 4.5. For such a new open line to make sense, the surcharge must therefore amount to a minimum of PLN 2 from the state budget and at least PLN 1 from the government budget, and this was not programmed in the budget. What about the existing lines? Carriers are removing existing connections due to their inefficiency. In Opole Voivodeship we have many powiats, which despite existing bus lines are in fact (Dzwonek) cut off from the capital city of the region. For example, districts: Namysłowski, Nyski, Prudnicki, Głubczycki are too far away from Opole and transport needs are really huge. If these connections were more frequent, many people would abandon personal transport. Where's the money to pay for electric buses? Electromobility policy should begin primarily with public clean and local transport. On fixed regular lines, green-powered buses should be the basis and not the exception. If the carrier wishes to modernise the rolling stock, it will not do so with a surcharge of 80 gr. Therefore, I ask whether the government will finally start investing responsibly in green mobility of Poles, and in this way it will take into account these expenditures in the state budget, because so far it seems that it has started working on boiler-carbon buses rather than electric buses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u408	Thank you. If you don't mind, Mr... Ah, Mrs Zofia Czernow. And then Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Because I'm in a hurry, Marshal. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two specific questions. First question. The draft budget repeats what has been going on for several years, namely the lack of sufficient funding for district disability boards. In fact, it's enough money for lawsuits for the first half of the year. This results in a huge increase in queues of disabled people and a lack of continuity of operation of this team. This is unacceptable. And again for this year, you don't secure enough resources. There's an increase of 10%. But it's a drop in the sea. I ask: How will you secure continuity of operation? Second question. I witnessed the Minister of Sport of this government signing a co-financing agreement (Dawn) for an investment in Jakuszycka Polana. I ask: How much money will the government spend on this investment in 2020? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u410	I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u411	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! I have such specific questions. First question. In the context of the elimination of the communication exclusion, will the budget include funds for the reconstruction of railway line 190 on section Bielsko-Biała - Skoczów? This line is renovated from Jumpzow, while within its range there are about 250,000. inhabitants thus excluded by communication. Second question. In 2016, Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Adamczyk promised that funds would be available for the construction of the Beskidzki Integration Road if the local authorities withdrew their opposition. We have done our part, the local governments have withdrawn their opposition, but the question is whether the government in this budget will reserve funds for the construction of this road. Question three. Whether sufficient resources were reserved in the budget for the construction of the S1 expressway on the section Bielsko-Biała (Sucha Potok) - Mysłowice (Kostowy), as well as the second section of Przybędz - Milówka (Dzwonek), i.e. Bypassing the Hungarian Mountains? Two more short questions, which I'll ask for in writing. First question: What funds are reserved in the budget for the improvement and renovation of the stream troughs, whose waters are flooded by the inhabitants of Bielsko-Biała and the districts: Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiecki, and for a small retention in this area, including the maintenance and renovation of local dams? 2nd: Does the budget provide for measures to support local authorities in the disposal of illegal landfills? We have examples such as the municipality of Chyba in Cieszyński Silesia, which has to deal with the waste collected on the basis of the State Treasury itself. However, these costs exceed the possibilities of municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u412	Thank you very much. I would also ask Joanna Fabisiak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I am surprised that there is no Prime Minister among us. Surprised even more that - it was a long time ago - Mr Buzek, when the budget was presented, was sitting in these benches As long as there was a discussion. When he had to leave, he asked the marshal to take a break. Why? Because he wanted to listen to the voices of the opposition, because it is not the voice of an individual Member, it is the voice of people. This is the voice of Poles. Because those are the opinions, the voices. I've been sitting here for hours, and I'm hearing there's no psychiatric doctors, and the kids are committing suicide. I'm hearing that the cost of living families is rising, and so on. Then the Prime Minister should be here. It is a pity that this custom, which was a good custom, has changed in this term of office. Ad rem. Well, I'd like to talk about Warsaw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's one sentence, Marshal, if you don't mind. Warsaw is a city that is victimized because of Janosik. We pay for the others, we accept it. But when I listened to this beautiful tale of no deficit, I thought we'd cover the deficit. The Warsaw budget lacks 200 million for teachers' salaries. That's a lot of money. When asked by the president of the city and asked for a supplement, there was an answer: you have a good budget, it has increased. He's up because the money's been transferred to 500+. But that money's gone. This money, this 200 million will be taken away from Warsaw, this money for very important investments, which Mr Szczerba also spoke about just now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u414	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Eugeniusz Czykwin, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the current borders of Poland, according to the census data of 2011, there are less than 300 thousand inhabitants. citizens with national and ethnic minorities, which accounts for only 0.7% all citizens. According to the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and Regional Languages, there are 13 minorities in Poland. Some of them, Lemkowska, Karaimska, Roma or Tartara minorities, do not have a second homeland and can not count on any help from abroad. According to the international conventions ratified by Poland, as well as the above law, the State is obliged to support initiatives aimed at preserving their cultural and national identity by minorities. In previous years, small amounts were allocated from the state budget. They exceeded PLN 16 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the project for the current year, 14 819 thousand are proposed mainly to support the cultural spheres of minorities creating a nationwide culture. zł. Therefore, I have two questions for the Prime Minister of the Government. Firstly, what were the reasons for the government's decision to reduce by more than PLN 1 million the resources allocated to support the culture of all 13 minorities living in Poland? Because it seems improbable that the same project proposes to increase the IPN budget by more than 80 million PLN. Second question. To achieve what goals will the government allocate the saved 1 million? Please answer these questions in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u416	I would now like to ask Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You spoil the pockets of Poles and Poles, and what do you give in return? Lying reality, pumped for 2 billion PLN by the regime's public television, promises without covering - shipyards, airports, bridges, roads, highways, apartments, electric cars, clean air. You give smaller budgets to Poles in local governments, indebted hospitals, liquidated branches, constantly some new taxes, fees, tributes, higher living costs, higher rents and electricity prices. You do not provide proper health care for Poles, you do not want them to breathe clean air, you do not improve the comfort of life and you do not provide adequate safety. What are you saying? Listen, don't disturb me. In Łódź you want to build a midrange tunnel in 23 months, and there hasn't been a first borehole yet. Judgment of the TSUE. Is this investment going to be like S14: a four-year delay and no pre-planned reunions? You didn't even lean over the S74, and I think you've forgotten about finishing the S8 for the last four years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The boat needs a special government program. When will you create a national cohesion fund that will compensate for the shortcomings? Such a fund would allow me to revitalize my Łódź, tenements built too quickly, often without foundations. One last question. Why is it not foreseen in the 2020 budget in Parts 25 and 40: Physical culture and tourism, increased funding of tasks due to wage increases and wage derivatives? Why are measures at the same level as in 2019 under a number of headings? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u418	I would like to ask Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You advertise the budget as a balanced budget, but as in advertising - there are a lot of untrue things and many trinkets. Or should the budget be prudent? The word is very similar, but it means something else. I'm going to use the NIK reports from last year, one from August, the other from December, it's about environmental bombs. One of these reports is a dramatic report on environmental bombs in the Baltic Sea, fuel leaking from wrecks and sunken chemical weapons. Do you see this problem? In February this year we will celebrate a century of weddings, you will surely appear in Puck. Do you know that fish without eyeballs swim in Pucka Bay? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or is it worth seeing and making a present for a century of marrying the sea? Maybe Poland will take care of the sea. I, ladies and gentlemen, also ask for money for local governments in which the state of the environment is a real threat to the health and life of the inhabitants. Once again from this speaker I ask you to pay attention to the Zgierski district, to Zgierz, where there are huge threats, where the dramatic situation of the environment poses a real threat. Can you see the situation of Zgierz? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u420	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u421	Dear Marshal, High Seym! In the context of the discussion on the state budget for 2020, which we already started a few days ago, I wanted to ask about a real, effective, failed fight to improve the air condition in Poland. The so-called exchange. Cinderellas, those furnaces that poison the air most, for many years have been carried out, slower or faster this exchange has lasted. In 2018, you launched the Clean Air programme, the effects of which are inversely proportional to the PR that you put into this programme. People are more and more willing to exchange furnaces for greener heat sources. When there are records in municipal offices, often many people, several dozens, several hundred, stand all night to sign up for this exchange, while this exchange takes place very slowly. If this programme were to be adopted within a specified time frame, it should be an exchange of 300,000. Cinderella's a year. Last year it was a dozen percent of this number. It is only now that work is being done on the inventory of cinderellas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't know exactly how many there are. I wanted to ask you if we can count on this year's exchange to be actually carried out, and whether we will feel during the next winter that the air will no longer be so heavy, so black and so biting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u422	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The presented budget is creative accounting, e.g. a grant for public television in the form of securities and not as a budget line. This makes the deficit lower. Except for the fact that it would be better to give this money to doctors than to the propaganda of PiS-owska. Saved raise for budget - 6%. I'm asking if there's an additional 6%. The promised increases e.g. for teachers, this is the only increase in 2020. There's no budget for a 75-year-old free drug program, which was last year. It is now to be financed by the NFZ, only that the funds for this have not been transferred. There's no money for the apartment+ programme. Where do you want to finance the program if there's no money for it? The question is, do you want this whole program to be financed by developers? As a Member of Pomerania, I would like to ask... Time. Time. ...about the money in the budget for Pomeranian investments, the metropolitan ring road, the Oldgard Gdansk ring road and Kwidzyn ring road. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u424	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address my questions in the area of agricultural matters. It is essential to increase funding for actions against the spread of ASF. This is an extremely difficult problem and farmers can't handle it themselves. Although there are some resources in this area from the European Union, there must be more funding from the budget to relieve farmers of the costs involved. This inextricably involves financing veterinary inspections, where earnings are very low. This also applies to plant protection inspections. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the situation that these institutions, these inspections, have the means to survive, and they don't have the means to operate. It comes to such absurdities that farmers (the Bell) often send a car for a controller to come, check, issue certain certificates to them. The same applies to agricultural advice. Finally, the problem of tackling the issue of drought, the problem of water, the problem of agriculture with regard to climate challenges. This requires a new look, more resources, because it is a problem of food security and food is above all health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government website all day long He tells us it's a great budget. Of course. And this budget is as great as it is sustainable, Mrs President. The best. Over PLN 20 billion hidden in the field of non-budget public finances, over PLN 15 billion charged to local governments. Creative accounting has allowed for a number of one-off revenues of PLN 40 billion, Commissioner, to be included in this year's budget and to finance fixed expenditure in the budget. What's gonna be a year? I'm asking. Will local governments bear the further burden on their budgets? Will entrepreneurs paying Europe's highest taxes on labour be able to do so? Or will this burden come to bear for workers who have the lowest tax-free amount, but for this they pay one of the highest VAT rates in Europe? Mr. Czarzasty and Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish agreed that this is not a balanced budget, it is a budget of bullshit. In my opinion, however, they were wrong about the fact that it could still be fixed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With all due respect to Members of the Sejm with many years of experience, I don't think he's here. as many masters as could have done it. This budget must simply be blown up and it is asked to add that best along with the authors. Oh... Ladies and gentlemen! We are presented with a budget in which, like communes, the interests of the rulers and their clients were first secured, and what remains, is graciously divided into health, education, safety or care of the disabled. It may seem that the budget presented by the government first takes care of the interests of the President and only the right party and its followers. What about the others? The others, the second sort, were given the rest. But, well, my mother-in-law said five years rule... Time, time. ...was getting used to it. Mr... So I ask the question according to the exposé of the Prime Minister: How much money was secured in the budget for county, municipal and marshal hospitals in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u428	Thank you very much. Please take the floor and ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u429	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the programme is to increase the participation and participation of seniors in society. In this year's budget, 80 million have been allocated for this purpose. Unfortunately, this amount has not been increased for years. Question: "What does this indicate?" After all, the demand for support for seniors in the environment is enormous, especially when it comes to activity in day-to-day homes and senior clubs. What about the support of community welfare centers when it comes to caring for seniors in the environment, those independent, lying sick people that the family doesn't support because they just don't have a family? What is the implementation of the promised program: prisoners of the third floor? Older people, families with children, disabled people, families with disabilities are waiting for this program. I regret very much that the Prime Minister is not here because I have a question for the Prime Minister. When will I receive a written reply to my question on 20 November (The bell) on investments concerning ring road in the Krajński stone, Sępolno Krajńskie in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? Prime Minister, I am waiting very patiently. Time. I hope that I will finally get this answer, as well as the people who are counting on this investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Finally, a question about the ring road.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u430	The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u431	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the ministers in your government whether you are planning to use the documentation that was to be produced next year concerning railway line 143 to Oleśnica and whether you are planning to start upgrading this line next year. I would also like to ask you about the modernisation of two important railway lines: railway line 273 to Głogów by the Lower Bank, as well as the steers and railway line 276 to Kłodzka and Międzylesie, a very important line by Shooting. I ask this because these are important railway lines within the Wrocław Metropolitan Area and the entire Lower Silesia, enabling the development of the Wrocław Metropolitan Railway. I would also like to ask, Prime Minister, about very important issues concerning the construction of roads in Lower Silesia, about the extension of the A4 motorway from Wrocław to Legnica, as well as about the construction of the expressway to Kłodzek and the access to these dangerous places in Lower Silesia, especially within the framework of the Wrocław Metropolitan Union, such as the roundabout in Błonia by national road 94. I would ask the Prime Minister to answer my questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u432	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u433	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government allocates millions to the Byzantine project, the Central Communication Port, and still has not found the necessary resources for the second most important railway junction in Poland, the Poznań Main Station, which includes the restoration of functionality, renovation of the old railway station building, renovation of platforms and new tracks, without which the Poznan Metropolitan Railway and long connections will not be developed. The present scandalous state of the station causes the exclusion of communication seniors, people with disabilities and other residents and residents of Poznań and Poznań district. Therefore, I have a question: Will the Main Poznań budget be included in this year's budget? In the exposé the Prime Minister was also mentioned about 9 thousand. km of new railway lines. How many kilometers are to be built this year? Besides, how much room in the budget will bike investments take? There will be a balanced budget (The Bell) without real sustainable transport. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u434	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Mark Rutka, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! As a member of the Gdynia-Slupsk district, I am particularly close to maritime affairs and maritime work. Half the UB. There is a protest on 12 rescue ships and eight coast stations of the Maritime Search and Rescue Service. It is about two trade unions: the Solidarity of Seamen and Fishermen and the National Trade Union of Officers and Seamen. Marine rescuers protest because of grossly low wages. The younger sailor earns 1600 PLN of basic salary, and the older sailor earns 2100 PLN. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister intend to take care of the brave daily life and health of marine rescuers and stop the wave of departure, which can soon paralyze this service and expose our country (the bell) to breaking treaty agreements on security in this part of the Baltic Sea? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u436	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Maciej Gdula, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I always listen very carefully to what Deputy Prime Minister Gowin says because I'm a scientist. In 2016, I heard him say that there must be an increase in spending on science and that in 2020 it will be 1.7%. GDP. If I didn't count, although there's a certain increase in science spending in this budget of 1.5 billion, we still don't reach 1.5%. GDP. We're around 1.3%. GDP. A balanced budget should not be an end in itself. A balanced budget is not a historic achievement at the moment, it is rather a historic omission. My question is, if this doesn't happen this year, when will there be a chance that the spending on science will really increase? The development of our country depends on it, and it is up to us to get out of this medium development trap. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was time for that. There's still time for adjustments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u438	Thank you very much. Please take the floor and ask Mr Maciej Necessary, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the key challenges facing Poland is the issue of energy transformation. It is a question of redirecting Polish energy to emission-free routes to meet external criteria, but also simply to ensure the future of our country, to ensure energy security in solidarity with other countries against the climate catastrophe. Such safe green energy, which Poland could, could and should use, is nuclear energy. However, if we look at expenditures in recent years on the National Agency for Atomics, we can see that under the PiS government these expenditures have decreased to 33 million, and in 2013 it was five times more. My question is this: Is this just a sham of the development of Polish nuclear energy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these just appearances, or is there a real plan of the Government of Law and Justice when it comes to financing Polish nuclear energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u440	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by the last two people. And then what? And then what? Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u441	Many colleagues and many colleagues have already talked about health care, including hospitals. I wanted to raise the subject of basic health care. There will be absolutely no increase in the real amount spent on hospitals, but, as I say, this has already been the case. The amount to finance basic health care does not change in 2020 and, at the same time, at the meeting of the Committee on Health, as Minister Szumowski said, there will be once again an apparent strengthening of the funding of basic health care, namely the so-called. the fee, the capital rate when the doctor of the POZ will necessarily replace the missing, and more and more, specialists, e.g. in the case of diabetes, hypothyroidism and other diseases, it will increase, and very well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, funding in its entirety of basic health care is not increasing and will not result in a slow dying of primary healthcare in hospitals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u442	Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Parliamentary Club of the Left, closes the list of Members who have been asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u443	The budget included 2 billion for propaganda in the PiS media, called public. A few hours ago, at the meeting of the PiS committee, he pushed the amendment that there could be more than three presidents in public media, so, as you can see, money is needed there. About 2 billion will cost you to dig up the Vistula Mill. This money will never return, and the surrounding nature will be destroyed. So I'm asking if there's only 1 billion in the budget for the Oder Bridge between the Police and the Holy. Thanks to this investment, hundreds of trucks with products from Police Chemical Works would be closer to Scandinavia and Germany. This would be an economically highly justified investment. Plus, these rigs wouldn't cross the city roads in Szczecin, and the scaffolds would be 50 km closer to the sea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As for Koszalin, when and how much money will be on the S6 and S11 roads in the east and south direction? Biedron is no longer President of Słupsk, so maybe it's time to stop punishing with communication exclusion this region of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u444	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. It's time for the government to speak. Mr Paweł Szrot, Deputy Head of Chancellery of the Prime Minister, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. In the debate and in this section on questioning three times there was a reference to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, to which I would like to answer now. Mr. Czarzasty in his flaming, captivating speech... [[Applause]] That's right, that's right. I'd like to quote the notion of irony. I do not know if you are familiar with the Members. It didn't work out. It didn't work out. We didn't get it. In any case, Mr Czarzasty pointed out an increase in the expenditure of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister since 2016. Why was such an exotic limit adopted? I think I do. Because it was in 2016 that the first changes were made regarding the system of financing the entities subordinate to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Since then, the law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers has taken over the supervision of four additional institutions. They're only partially transformed, partially taken over. Another way was to finance airline flights of the most important people in the country. As a result, this is not a different relationship between 2016 and the current year's budget. Madam President Skowrońska asked for attention to be paid to the increase in expenditure that occurred during the previous financial year, 2019. I do not see you here, but I would like to clarify that this is about grants from the article. 11b Act on public benefit activities. These are grants to public benefit organisations in competition proceedings which are not, by any means, foreseeable at the stage of budget planning. This increase in expenditure comes down to the granting of these grants. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek from the parliamentary club Lewis asked a question about the functioning of the Capital Investment Fund, which is administered by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would just like to inform you that this fund is, yes, saved in the amount of PLN 939 million in the 2020 budget, while the idea of this fund is that these funds will be mobilised, the Member probably knows very well, to include and acquire company shares only in 2021. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! That's all about my explanations. I'm asking you to accept them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u446	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sławomir Gadomski will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u447	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, health has been a subject that has been repeatedly mentioned in your questions. These questions have been focused on issues that actually connect with the state budget, but often fall within the scope of the National Health Fund's financial plan. However, I will try - because Poles are interested in this total health budget - to refer also to the state budget, and to the question of financing benefits by the National Health Fund. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Robaczyński because the work on the health budget law has been extremely peaceful this year and we have actually managed to conclude this budget very constructively, so thank you very much to the Minister and his colleagues. We most often have very little time for these thanks, so I take the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's disappoint the mythical amount of PLN 14 billion in hospital debt, because it rained many times from this speaker. Mythical, because it was presented as a collapse of the health sector, a collapse of hospitals. Let's go back to history a little bit, and let's look at how the total liabilities actually form historically and what this amount of 14 billion PLN really means. There are certainly many economists in this room, or at least those interested in public finance and finance, and as we all know, commitments go hand in hand, whether they are really going in a way that is appropriate to the increase in revenue, to the increase in the scale of activity. This is normal in any company, it is normal in any company. So the commitments are also going, but their growth is combined with an increase in health expenditure. If we go back and look at the ratio of total liabilities or liabilities of required hospitals to spend, to the cost of financing benefits by the National Health Fund, it seems that this proportion is quite the opposite. We're talking about a decline in this relationship. If we look at 2012 then we are talking about the total commitments made by hospitals in relation to health expenditures of 15.5% , currently less than 14. If we look at the relationship between liabilities due, i.e. those with which hospitals have a problem with paying, it was 3.6% compared to the 2012 expenditures. Today it's less than 2%. If we cut our expenditures off, because there are about to be voices that we have funds for salaries in the expenditures, then let us focus on the costs of health care provided by the National Health Fund. This relationship is very similar. Almost 18% of total liabilities to benefits in 2012 and less than 16% presently. Liabilities due 4,1% , today about 2%. If we look only at hospital treatment so that we don't mess with some relationships, in 2012, it was a 36% relationship. , today about 30%. Required obligations 8,5% , today 4%. These figures point to the fact that this account is twice as low now as it was 7 and 8 years ago. So, has this collapse been happening for so many years? Does this collapse decrease or increase? That's a question in a way, I think, rhetorical. Of course, we are talking about 14 billion debt, but this is what we need to refer to the increasing expenditures, to the pace of the increase in expenditures. If there have been repeated allegations of underfunding of county hospitals, with their very difficult situation, then let's look only at 2019. The expenditure on the provision of healthcare such as hospital care as planned by the National Health Fund was PLN 38.8 billion. During the year this plan was increased by PLN 4.5 billion, i.e. 12% , up to 43.3 billion. If we just want to look at the increase in valuations - I'm not talking about the increase in hospital activity - it's a lump sum as part of the basic hospital security increased from 22.6 billion, that's the original plan of the National Health Fund, to 23.9. For the sake of the increase in valuation alone, this is 1.3 billion per year. I am not talking about the fact that the original plan was higher than the implementation of 2018. If we look at this collapse at hospital level, let's look at one more number -- let's look at the number of hospitals that don't generate liabilities. Today this number is 73% hospitals, 3/4 hospitals in Poland do not have liabilities due, there are no problems with timely payment of their liabilities. I already told you about 2012, that was less than 68%. In a word, 5% hospitals that had liabilities due at the time, they're not here today. I repeat, where is this collapse in the hospital sector? When was it worse? In your day. But so that we already have a full picture and precisely about these mythical 14 billion PLN - there are voices that it is common, that county hospitals, 93% county hospitals are in debt. I'd say 100%. they're hospitals that have obligations. Each operator in the economy has commitments. But let's not confuse debt with hospital obligations. If we look at who generates the liabilities due, we'll see that 80% liabilities due are generated by 6% of hospitals. This is a narrow group, 80%... 80% ? ...the debt due is generated by 6% units, by about 70 hospitals in this country. If we were talking about county hospitals and how far they are forgotten by the Ministry of Health, by the National Health Fund, I am returning to the changes in prices in 2019. The dynamics of lump sum changes were highest in county hospitals, first and second degree hospitals. That was 9 and 8% dynamics. for the increase in lump sums. This is on a yearly basis, I believe, indeed there is a significant increase in valuation. I hope that some of the 14 billion zlotys I have undone and some of the myth of this debt, which is supposed to be record-breaking, I hope, piss up. I think that I will present this in many forums, because we can't really look at the commitments made by hospitals, the commitments made by the health sector by nominal value. Let's put it aside, put it aside for the cost of financing benefits. Thank you very much for the questions concerning the multiannual programmes, because in fact, during today's discussion there have been many talks about the fact that there is little investment, there is no development investment. In the health sector, happily for these investments we find funding, we find funds. Examples of two investments have been provided. One is an investment in Zabrze, the creation of a Silesian clinic and science centre. I agree, it is a very important investment indeed. The question was why only 31 million are spent in 2020. Because that's the need, because that's the payment schedule, because that's the ability of the realist to make this investment. This investment, its total value, is about PLN 112 million and it is fully secured by state funding, only that these expenditures are gradually incurred in 2019, 2020, 2021. Similarly, the investment in Łódź, the second stage of the construction of the clinic and teaching centre, the investment introduced into financing from the state budget in 2018, worth almost PLN 475 million. For 2020, measures of less than 83 million are planned, for the same reason - because this investment is being implemented and the implementation cycle is foreseen for the years 2018 to 2023. Multi-annual programmes are indeed a major stimulus for development. It is worth noting that the budget includes programmes that have been adopted by the Council of Ministers in recent years. The most important is, in fact, eight of the last 2 and 3 years, but from the last year alone it is a multi-annual programme of investments in the field of regeneration and expansion of the Centre for Oncology - Institute..., the value - 872 million, the Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin - 594 million, and - in fact the decision of the Council of Ministers from 2 days ago - the central clinical hospital in Poznań, for which not only learners, but also, I think, the entire region of Wielkopolska have been waiting for a long time, worth PLN 572 million. This shows that these expenditures do not go, as we have heard here, only on current costs, financing, but also in a substantial part actually finance investments. Thank you very much, Mrs Kotula, for the question about child psychiatry. This is actually an area where, in fact, many years of negligence has caused a very difficult situation, which is today. I agree, neither the staffing situation nor the accessibility situation are easy, but that is why reforms and changes in this area have been proposed. In 2019 a reform of adult psychiatry was initiated. We managed to create a model of care for adults and start a program for the establishment of mental health centres. If we look at some voivodships... For example, the Podlaskie Voivodeship is already fully covered by the new organisation of psychiatric care for adults. As far as child psychiatry is concerned, I really encourage you to read a very fresh tariff for the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, approved by the Minister of Health, which is now introducing a complete change and reform of the child psychiatry system. It introduces at least three reference levels, especially the first one, which is the pillar, i.e. environmental psychological and psychotherapeutic care centres for children and young people. On the one hand, it is indeed the answer to the shortage of medical staff, children's psychiatrists, and on the other hand - it provides an increase in the availability of aid in outpatient care, environmental care, i.e. where this care should in principle be directed in the first place. It is a project for which the National Health Fund is intended to secure 400 million PLN per year. It started at the very beginning of 2019. At the end, a question was asked about financing POZ. As I said, POZ funding cannot be reflected in the draft budget law, because it concerns the cost of benefits financed by the National Health Fund. These costs are included in the National Health Fund plan. What is worth saying, in the field of POZ I encourage you to trace the last few years, because these expenditures on POZ... It seems to me that out of these three areas: POZ, outpatient specialist care and hospital treatment there, this growth dynamic was the greatest. The negotiations concluded at the end of 2019 also mean that we start another year in peace. There are no closed offices, POZ doctors are working in a continuous system and yet there are some increases in funding, for example related to the care of patients with chronic diseases, for example. with diabetes, over patients in endocrinology. There has been a significant increase in funding since the beginning of this year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u448	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u449	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I will also start by thanking Minister Robaczyński for working on the budget in this section, which concerns infrastructure and transport. This work is very tedious and difficult - it is known that everyone wants to get as much from this pot - but, I think, good, substantive and with effect for infrastructure and in general for the development of our country. Thanks also to the employees of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure for this joint action. Ladies and gentlemen! Many questions have been asked about road investments, rail investments, the fight against communication exclusion. They most often ended with a request for a written reply. Of course we will. On the other hand, in such a general form, I would like to refer to the financing of road and rail investments, but also to the financing of the Bus Development Fund, as well as to the Self-Government Road Fund, about which one of the Members here has told a lie and such lies should be straightened out. They have nothing to do with reality and you just have to call them lies by name. But before I go about it, I have a request to Members of the Left because there is no President of the Charzasty, who spoke in his ardent speech about... That was good. Right. [[Applause]] It's good, but it's a little... I don't know who prepared it for him. If someone's prepared it for him, he shouldn't get any funding for it, and I'm telling you why. Mr Czarzasty spoke about the railway line Żagań - Wolsztyn. Ladies and gentlemen, you have eliminated this link. In 2003, the SLD closed the link between Żaganie and Wolsztyn. ...if you were in your mother's room, the Army would never know about you. Ladies and gentlemen! Self-painting hard level. [[Game in the O.R.]] You destroyed the railway link between Żagan and Wolsztyn in 2003. [[Applause]] You can check it out. You can check it out and do self-defense. Really, ladies and gentlemen, you have eliminated this merger in 2003. I think Mr Czarzasty should know that. I didn't eliminate anything. And the second lie he said he referred to. He was talking about the fact that there's no money in the budget to fight communication exclusion. 800 million PLN for the financing of non-profitable bus connections throughout Poland, the Bus Transport Development Fund. ...which you just moved. [[Applause]] These funds are both in 2020 and were in 2019. The recruitment for 2020 was carried out by the voivodships. The self-governments, those who wanted to, who could arrange this transport, applied. More than 1,700 new bus lines across Poland with government support will be implemented in 2020... How do you implement this program? That's not true. And this is just the beginning of the process (Gwar in the hall, bell) to fight the exclusion of communication in the field of public transport reconstruction. The beginning of this trial. I am convinced that there will be much more local authorities involved in this process in the coming years. The funds are secured for this in 2020 and will be secured in the following years. It's about the Bus Transport Development Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! Road investments. There were questions about the implementation of individual national roads - and motorways, and expressways, to the bypasses in a moment I will pass. These tasks, which are planned or are already being carried out, are provided with funding. The total amount for investments under the national road construction programme in 2020 is over PLN 20 billion - PLN 15 billion under the National Road Fund and over PLN 5 billion under the State budget. This is the full amount of funding that is spent and for these large investments, i.e. under the national road construction programme... As I said today at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, 86 tasks are under way and they are provided with budgeting this year and will be provided next year. On the other hand, throughout the network, ladies and gentlemen, more than 600 tasks, of course of less value, such as the construction of pavements, the construction of hiking and cycling lines, coves, safe walkways for pedestrians. These are the tasks for which the resources are prepared in 2020 and which will be carried out in the current network of national roads. As regards the modernisation of railway lines, the total amount to be spent in 2020 is PLN 17.5 billion. These are, of course, investments modernising individual railway routes, but also financial resources that will be earmarked for the ongoing maintenance of these railway routes. This year more than 150 tasks will be carried out with these measures. In addition, it will already be implemented or implemented... Railway stations are also modernised. As for the Poznań railway station, because I see a Member, there were problems with the agreement with the municipal monument conservator, which did not agree with what the investor, PKP PLK, proposed. However, as far as I know, these problems have been overcome and in cooperation with the investor, city authorities and city monument conservator this station will be modernised. It's fresh information, literally a few moments ago I received it. There is this point from the point of view - and so to speak - of the agreements agreed. So that the investment will be carried out. Circuits - because it is understandable the interest of the parliamentarians in a program called 100 bypasses. As announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki within 100 days of the establishment of the current government, this programme will be shown, i.e. we will indicate 100 bypasses that will be implemented in the near future. And, of course, the first resources will be spent on this in 2020. However, they will be larger in the future years, because necessarily construction will be carried out over the next years. I think that many of these bypasses that you are calling for both during the discussion, this budgetary discussion, during the discussions at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure, as well as in letters, interpelations and inquiries, will be included in this programme. On the other hand, when we illustrate the scale of demand, in Poland we have diagnosed the needs of the construction of 260 bypasses, of which 170 has an authentic need. We of these 170 will separate the hundred that will be realized in the coming years. ♪ So let's have ♪ attention and knowledge of the scale of demand in terms of the construction of bypasses in national road lines. And one last thing - to the honourable Mr Mirosław Suchon, who spoke in his first speech about the road plans given by the General Directorate for National Roads in 2020. According to what the Member has said, this is 117 km of new roads to be opened in 2020 - this is a reference to the information that is officially provided by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Because that's what I read, too. On the other hand, I assure you that there will be more miles. That's good news. I assure you. Yeah, that's good news. And if I can strengthen my assurance, I propose a bet. We can bet that in 2020 we will use more national roads than those defined by the latest Communication from the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. I hope... Do you accept the bet? Why so low the bar? Let's make it more than last year. Minister, this isn't a casino... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: No, there's going to be more than what's in the Directorate General's message than you said in that speaker. And like I said, I'm willing to bet we're gonna make that happen. I'm hoping I'll be off the stand in a moment, and that bet in front of the esteemed audience will come. That was the penultimate issue. The last one, on the other hand, is the Self-Government Road Fund. Mr Owl once again lied, once again today. He did it at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, he did it now, in this discussion. The Self-Government Road Fund, first of all, is not in debt, there is no deficit. The amount of PLN 4 billion fell here. For God's sake, I don't know where that information comes from, and why come up with this bullshit. And secondly, it will be implemented. In 2020 it is PLN 3200 million, in recruitment, which was organized by voivods in the second half of 2019. Now this recruitment will be approved, in accordance with the bill, by the signature of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I think that's going to happen in a short space of time. Local governments will be informed that they will receive funding for their tasks. So that more thousands of local government tasks will be financed under this large project, which is scheduled for 10 years, between 2019 and 2028. I am convinced that it will be implemented in the years to come in favour of the development of transport and, above all, safety. Thank you very much again for the debate. The questions you have asked for will be answered in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u450	Thank you. Please, Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u451	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will present such a supplement to the information provided by Minister Rafał Weber on the fight against communication exclusion and the consequences of decisions which led to this communication exclusion. I would like to address the Members of the Democratic Alliance here: if you have any doubts, let me remind you that your previous governments have led to a large number of over 100,000. People, 100,000. residents of cities and towns in Poland lost access to the railway network. Your SLD has wiped out more than 2680 km of the railroad. Scandal! It was barbaric on rail transport, which your colleagues, your predecessors, committed, so when you talk about the fact that the Law and Justice are not implementing this program, look back, ask all those who have led to this drama. Hawks-Zdrój - you have deprived almost 90,000 of access to the railway network. inhabitants of this city, Niepołomice - 13 thousand, Golub-Dobrzyń - 12 thousand. Zambrów - 22 thousand. We're rebuilding it... The people of these cities remember this to you, your former colleagues, who, under the rule of the Democratic Left Alliance in various coalition configurations, committed this barbarism on railway connections in Poland. I would also like to refer to the question of Mrs Górka, who asked about Hungarian Górka. Member of the Civic Platform, absent here in the Chamber, please bear in mind that Hungarian Górka was an unfulfilled dream of the inhabitants of that region. We carry out this task despite the high financial costs, this task simply needs to be done. That was also Mr Suchon's question. Thank you for your interest in the investment and thank you for such a positive reference to the investment S1, also declared over the years. The hopes of the inhabitants of Podbeskidzia, western Małopolska, eastern Silesia and Zagłębia were also aroused. Today, the entire S1 expressway is practically either at the tender stage or the contract already signed. From the A1 motorway junction at Pyrzowice airport to the Podwarpie junction is at the stage of implementation, there is a tender for the section from Podwarpie junction to Dąbrowa Górnicza road S1, the tender for the section from the Cost Node to Bielsko-Biała. Trust me, sir, and we hope for the support of all Members regardless of their club membership, and at least we hope that you will not interfere with this process - that this path will be realized. I'm sure we can count on your support here. As far as the Beskid integration road is concerned, local authorities have done what is necessary, it is true, while one of the NGOs has brought an appeal against environmental decisions, and unfortunately we have to deal with this process, because everyone can bring this call. Unfortunately, it has been introduced and delays the communication investment, in this case the Beskidway of Integration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. Now you're gonna take the floor... Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. As far as the question raised by Mr Truskolas - Via Carpatia is concerned, this is practically an issue of honour for us. I answer to the Member if you allow the marshal. Thank you, I am replying to Mr Truskolas. Mr President, I very much regret that you have not taken advantage of the opportunities available to convince your colleagues at a time when the Civic Platform had 8 years of opportunity to build Via Carpatia - the S19 expressway. We build it throughout the whole length, it is at different stages of implementation: some are already under construction, some at the tender stage, for the part of the most late we prepare technical documentation. We have the funding provided for this route. For Via Carpatia road, the government of Law and Justice in 2017 prepared financing, we expanded the financial limit to PLN 135 billion. Please don't worry, I ask for more optimism, I am addressing Mr Truskolas. Please provide information that it is happening well with Via Carpatia, the Government of Law and Justice is finally building it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u452	The Minister of State Assets, Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the examination of the project and the questioning of questions, there were several issues concerning the energy area, which require a response and some correction, because the listeners could definitely be misleading. The first question is questions about some kind of hidden funding or hidden public aid in the budget for the coal sector or energy blocks. Here I wanted to definitely say that there are no hidden amounts. What has been written in part 48: The fossil deposit economy is the amount of PLN 614 million allocated to subjective and targeted grants related to operations carried out after the closure of mines to protect neighbouring mines against water, gas and fire risks. It is also planned to finance the maintenance costs of 15 drainage regions. This is related to the eternal costs borne by the State in the event of the liquidation of mines. The cost of repairing the damage caused by the operation of mining plants, i.e. mining damages, as well as the costs related to employees' claims, is also borne by the budget. The State budget also covers costs related to the financing of restructuring tasks in the stone mining sector, which were started in 2015. There is no hidden financing of coal blocks or conventional energy. Over the past few years, restructuring activities have been carried out in the energy sector, mainly concerning the functioning of the electricity market, so that it is possible to finance or obtain the financing of investments necessary to ensure the energy security of the country from the energy market or more widely from the financial market. Appropriate financial instruments and mechanisms have been introduced to enable such investments to be carried out. One such solution is the recently implemented power market, which is one of the basic instruments to ensure investment in the area of conventional manufacturing. Thus, there are no amounts available in the state budget to finance conventional energy. The second issue, which calls for decisive correction, concerns the share of renewable energy and such a disguised allegation related to the failure to meet the 2020 RES target. I'll start with the following explanation. The 2020 target is 15% the share of renewable energy in final energy consumption. This consists of electricity consumption, other forms of energy, including heating, cooling, etc. The calculation of this objective will be carried out on the basis of data to be collected for 2020 in 2021 and published by the Central Statistical Office. Today, i.e. from the available data concerning 2017, we see an increase in the share of this energy. Thus, in 2017, this figure was 14.6% , in 2018 - 14,8%. So we're consistently approaching 15%. . Recently, RES auctions have been carried out, I am talking about 2018 with the aim of obtaining sufficient capacity installed in renewable energy sources and generation of electricity in order to achieve this goal in 2020. In 2018, 1700 MW of installed capacity in renewable sources was contracted, of which 1100 MW was installed in wind power, 550 in photovoltaics and the remainder included hydroenergy, biomass and biogas. Auctions carried out at the end of last year, 2019, so this is a completely fresh case, allowed to contract 3100 MW, of which more than 2200 MW in the wind, 750 - in photovoltaics, the rest included other energies, i.e. hydroenergy, biomass and biogas. In 2019, my current programme was also launched, aimed at prosumers, allowing small-scale photovoltaic installations to be financed so that everyone could become a generator of electricity. Over the last few months, 10% of PLN 1 billion allocated to this programme have been used up. which has already resulted in more than 100 MW of installed capacity in these installations. Since Monday, January 13, the next round of calls for proposals for this programme has begun. We estimate that this will generate another 1000 MW installed capacity. So today, with the increase in the capacity installed in RES sources, we can safely say that this will enable the 2020 target to be met, and there is no reason to use any amount of potential financial penalties. By the way, no amount of penalties that are likely to fail to comply is eligible, since no calculation can be made in this case in any legislation, since such matters would finally be determined by the Court at the request of the European Commission. In conclusion, I would like to say that at the end of 2020 we will have around 14 000. MW of power installed in RES sources. It is about half the power centrally available that is available today, and about 1/3 of all the power that will be installed in the country. So this is really the size that will allow us to look calmly at the 2020 target. There was also a question of energy prices and scaring in different sizes. I would like to remind you that in 2018 temporary solutions were introduced, for one year, which frozen energy prices and allowed energy consumers to be protected from rising energy prices. Recently, in 2020, these price freezing mechanisms have ceased to function and we have returned to normal functioning by means of a regulator. The latest tariffs that have been approved, based on the costs of reasonable and small increases that have been approved by an independent regulator or on the announcements that have been made, ensure that, as in previous years, mechanisms will be put in place to protect end-users from any effect of what has been introduced in such a way that those customers will not feel the rise in these prices. In addition, a consistent reform of different types of mechanisms makes the electricity market increasingly competitive, and here these price signals make the way it is developing as appropriate as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Minister of National Education, will now speak. You're welcome. No, excuse me, Mr Maciej Kopeć, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Thank you very much for all these questions that concern education, especially those concerning educational subsidies, because in this respect a number of issues need to be clarified. Although, of course, some questions can be surprising, because they have been explained many times and the people who asked them have themselves been involved in the subsidy billing mechanism, so I assume they should know very well how this mechanism is going. Of course, I also wanted to say that for the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki education is important. The facts show this, the figures show it, and so the increase in education expenditure itself. If we look at the data from the years 2019 to 2020 there has been an increase of more than 8% in this respect. As regards the education subsidy itself, the one that was recorded, as Mr Girzyński said, in the 2019 budget law, there was an increase of 8,5%. If we look at the implementation of the budget, because, as we know, the budget law came into force together with the revision of the Teacher Charter, we will notice that the increase in teachers' salaries is an increase of 6%. On the other hand, looking at issues related to education expenditure, a number of other issues need to be taken into account, which have emerged with regard to the revenue and expenditure of local governments, because the revenue of local governments consists of subsidies, grants and own income. Without it, it's hard to see. on the issue of actions, i.e. which are subsidised and which are not subsidised. These activities, which are not subsidised, concern kindergartens which are financed by own resources. But at the same time it must be said that when it comes to a six-year-old in kindergarten, it is subsidised. So these activities, which are not subsidised, concern children of three or four - and five-year-olds. As we all know, at the same time there is a pre-school grant: PLN 1489 million or PLN 1437 per child. And now let's take a look at some of the issues that have emerged here and have been relevant to specific local governments. As I said, it is impossible to look at the educational expenditure of local governments, without taking into account the revenue they have achieved at the same time. In fact, in short, as if we looked at 2015, the local government's own income amounted to PLN 103,4 billion in 2018, PLN 124 billion. And now let's look at the specific local governments. As far as the city of Lublin is concerned, in 2017, looking at the years 2016 and 2017, we have an amount of 61,532,000. In the years 2017 and 2018 it is 64 260 thousand. As far as the city of Warsaw is concerned, it is 601 million and later, year to year, i.e. in 2017 and 20181170 million. As far as the city of Poznań is concerned, it is 170 million and 153 million. Since the city of Poznań has appeared here several times, it is worth noting, when talking about activities and expenses which are subsidised and those which are not subsidised, that these expenditures which are not subsidised in Poznań amounted to 235 million. So we just have to take these facts into account. If we compare the current expenditure of the Poznań government with the expenditure on education, in fact the share of this expenditure fell by 0.3%. If we looked globally at 2018 and the current expenditure of local governments and the revenue of local governments in relation to current expenditure on education, they have fallen globally, i.e. we are talking about 2018, when we have full data. And the question that came up here about the calculation of subsidies. Those who were also concerned by the increase of 6% included in the budget. If we look at the guarantee of this increase, of course this is the base amount, i.e. the one which amounts to PLN 3537 80 gr, i.e. this entry clearly indicates the increase which will, of course, occur. Of course, there is confidence that this increase will be realized. As regards the calculation of subsidies, Minister Dariusz Piontkowski explained these issues in detail to representatives of local governments at the plenary meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission at the request of local authorities. Moreover, such questions were not raised by representatives of local authorities as to the ways in which this calculation was calculated, and the question of this calculation is based on a number of data. Let us remember that we are at a time of reform, i.e. up to a certain point in relation to the difference in the number of pupils in primary and secondary schools, we have been dealing primarily with an increase in teaching jobs. In 2019, however, the reform entered secondary schools, which is a completely new situation, at the same time a completely new instrument which had emerged and which had not been completed by the predecessors. This is a new educational information system that allows you to keep up to date with data on activities that are introduced by school heads into the educational information system. This allows to determine the size of the tasks and therefore also the key issue of teaching posts. At the time of the preparation of the budget law, we were faced with a situation where, on the basis of previous data and issues of analysis of how recruitment could be foreseen - for example, to secondary schools, where, as we know, both primary school graduates and middle school students applied - it was necessary to take into account the number of pupils and teachers in secondary schools and what they would remain in primary schools, and thus how this would look like on 1 September 2019 and further how it would be shaped on 1 September 2020, and thus how these data would look. Taking into account the issues needed for the calculations, this number of pupils and the number of teachers, appropriate of course to the framework curricula, to the number of branches, were taken into account, as will be the case for 1 September 2019 and 1 September 2020. And now the figure of 530 thousand has been taken for this analysis. employment. On the other hand, today looking at the figures that are at the end of December or the beginning of January 2020 or the end of 2020, we see the differences between the data that have been taken in the construction of the amount of educational subsidies. Looking at the situation in September 2020, the amount of increase needed to reach it in the months of 2020, i.e. from 1 September 2020 to the end of December 2020, is 840 million. On the other hand, looking at the differences between what is planned in subsidies and what is visible from current data, we see this difference between the plan and the actual state of the amount of PLN 740 million. Hence this provision of 100 million, which appeared and which simply results from the completion of the current data necessary for the calculation of the 6% increase from 1 September 2020. That's why it's 100 million. As I said, this is due to the data we now have thanks to the new educational information system, i.e. after the verification of the data that has taken place. And another question that came up here, including these strange calculations of the increase. If we look at the teacher's salary, because it was also about a certain dignity, how one can live a decent life, it is worth noting that the last teacher's increase in the PO-PSL regime was in 2012. Since 2013 for the largest group of teachers, i.e. qualified teachers, i.e. 60% teachers, this minimum rate was PLN 3109. Of course, the minimum rate is not a full teacher's salary, because it is increased by many additions. However, in 2018 and 2019 there was a 21% increase in teachers' salaries. From 1 September this minimum rate for the basic salary of a qualified teacher will be PLN 4046. When we look at the average amount in turn, it will be PLN 6510. We're talking about a group of teachers, which is 60%. all teachers, i.e. qualified teachers. Looking at the issue of subsidies, it is also worth noting that we are also trying to help those local governments that have developed a network of schools where there could be problems. Therefore, two contributions were eventually introduced to the subsidy. One concerns the so-called. the small schools, and the second which has now been introduced, concerns economically weaker local authorities and those with fewer schools. The issue of the regulation itself as regards the distribution of educational subsidies also concerns the inclusion of a mechanism of support for local governments, such as those mentioned here. It is about Warsaw, Poznań, Lublin or other big cities that do not have such income. So that we can say that educational subsidies have recently increased in an extremely dynamic manner. In 2015, the education grant amounted to PLN 40.4 billion, and in 2020 it will amount to PLN 49 856 million, which is almost a 10-billion-dollar increase in subsidies. As I said, education is important, important. It is about how it will be financed and how funding will be provided for those actions that are subsidised. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u456	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Szwed, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I had the impression that Members of the opposition spoke today about completely different budgets, i.e. budgets from 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, [[Applause]] but not about the budget of Law and Justice, the United Right, not this year's budget, as far as the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is concerned. All those allegations you made in your speeches were about those years. Today, in 2020 we spend more than 70 billion PLN on family and social policy. In 2019 we spent PLN 50 billion, i.e. the increase is at the level of PLN 20 billion. These are the resources we're allocating. In the programme itself, the 500+ family - an increase of up to 39 200 million PLN, an increase of more than 17 billion PLN. Family benefits - 13 billion PLN. Children's care programme under the age of PLN 3,450 million. Under the Civic Platform - PLN 150 million, i.e. a three-fold increase in expenditures on the "Maluch+" programme. There were discussions about poverty here. Extreme poverty among children of 11% went down to 0.7% That is, we have practically eradicated child poverty. The subject of hungry children in Poland is not present. This is where they tried to accuse us. Social services. We didn't reduce the resources for social assistance. Almost PLN 4 billion for social assistance. It was 3 billion 800, which is another increase. Operational Programme - Food aid - 400 million. It's a court-martial team. That was the question here, too. Over 200 million, 40% increase. The Senior+ programme - 80 million. Three years ago, under the Platform's leadership, 30 million. A 50 million increase. I could give you more figures on the increase in family policy. One more, I think, important information concerning the support of people with disabilities and their carers in the years 2011 to 2018. I will save data from earlier years, but I will compare 2015 with 2020. Providing care for the carers of the children who require such care. In 2015, PLN 1600 million, in 2020, PLN 31130 million plus health insurance contributions, i.e. huge growth. Care benefits. Growth from 1 billion 700 to 2 billion 200. As regards other benefits, social pensions - an increase from 2300 million to 3 billion 800 etc. Wedlock - another growth. Regarding rehabilitation benefits, there was also a question - a billion seven three hundred million in 2015, in 2020, 1800 million PLN. Issues related to expenditure from the Solidarity Fund. There wasn't a fund like that at all. The Solidarity Fund created the Government of Law and Justice. In 2020 5111 million PLN will be allocated to these activities. Total expenditure on support for people with disabilities and their carers in 2015, PLN 15 billion in 2020, 27 500 million. If we added an incapacity pension to this, this amount in 2020 would be PLN 44 billion. I would like each of you to do as much for family policy, for Polish families as we have done during this period of rule of law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u458	Thank you very much. Minister Michał Wójcik will speak at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u459	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen! I thought I would not have to answer the questions today, and yet I was asked to answer the questions of four Members: Mrs Skowronska, Mrs Dolniak, Mr Smishek and Mr Buz, from the Platform and from the Left. Two categories of questions. The first concerned the remuneration of the judicial staff and the plea, which was addressed to the Ministry of Justice. It was about people leaving in thousands of courts that we don't care about employees. And the second category - it is about handing over the Lubomirski Castle in Rzeszów. I'm gonna go back to those first questions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna spare you like my predecessor did, but I'm just going to quote the data, because it's the public's right to just let the public know... Yes, sir. ...as it was in your day. To dig through all these numbers, I'm gonna eat the data from the card, I'm sorry. 2010 - 0 PLN 2011 - consequence, 0 zł. There were so many raises. 2012 - consistently 0 PLN. 2013 - you cared so much about employees that you gave them a raise of 0 PLN. Oh... 2014 - 0 PLN 2015 - 0 PLN Oh... For all these years - 0 PLN. That's it. Less than zero. You cared so much about people just like that. [[Applause]] When we came to power, we have consistently raised our wages since 2016. 2016 - 350 zł, 2017 - 53 zł on average, 2018 - 81 zł, 2019 - note - 650 zł, 2020 - 450 zł. [[Applause]] Bravo! Because of our recent years of government, this is almost 1,600 zlotys for the average increase. That's 45%. - Okay, in the last four years. So, pretty, huh? 45% up to 0%. That's the truth. I'm sorry, but you wanted this data, so, of course, I'm fairly honest about it. Therefore, thank you very much also the Ministry of Finance and the employees of the Ministry of Justice, who are also here today. Thank you for these questions. Thank you very much, of course, for this question. I would like to say that the talks we had were very difficult, because it is true that we have twice signed an agreement with trade unions as regards trade union organisations in the justice system. And what I want to say is that last year it was 200 zł raises, but already in October we paid 450 zł increase on average per job, of which 400 zł per job and 50 zł for equalizing differences, because there are huge differences in salaries of employees in different courts, in different voivodships, and even sometimes in the same court when it comes to employees doing similar activities. However, I can already announce today - it is in the budget and for that thank you, Minister - another 450 PLN. This increase will be soon, we will negotiate what amount is for each, the amount of fixed increase, and what amount is there to equalize the differences. There's a similar situation in the D.A.'s office. The same situation is with the curators, I also calm down, 900 PLN since January average for one job for the curators. 900 PLN. 900 zł average since January, yes. Similarly with regard to OZSS employees, similarly with regard to the so-called issue. other judicial staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that most of the workers are praying that you will simply never come to power because they would probably go back to the same situation as you cared about justice and workers, those tens of thousands of people. In fact, you should applaud us standing up for it. But you're attacking us. [[Applause]] Bravo! The second category is the Lubomir Castle. Several years, ladies and gentlemen, it was promised that the Lubomirski Castle, a historical object, an important object, would be handed over to the local government, in fact residents of Rzeszów, but it was not done. Today, Minister Ziobro and Minister Warchoł are being attacked from this speaker, that they wanted to appear in Rzeszow... They're bold. ...and attended, ladies and gentlemen, just as Minister Warchoł participated in the ceremony of signing the letter of intent. It is a letter of intent signed between the Regional Court in Rzeszów and the local government, the city. It was us, ladies and gentlemen, who took the first step to hand over the Lubomirski Castle to the communities of this city. This is the first step, so we can't see it in the budget, because then there's the second step, which is the prosecution's examination of this operation. The D.A. today examines whether everything is in accordance with the law, whether the whole operation will comply with the law. Then there is the third stage, i.e. agreement, ladies and gentlemen, and then only the following elements: the whole investment process, tenders for documentation, execution, etc. So it'll be in the next budget. It's obvious. We must realise that we must build the seat of the Regional Court in Rzeszów, a new seat. Somewhere we need to move judges, employees, other people who work in court. I want to tell you that there is a guarantee on the part of Rzeszow, there is a concrete property, there is a concrete valuation of this property, and we will finish this process, the one we promised we would carry out. You're also attacking us as an opposition. I am very surprised because you should thank for this and get involved in this process, because it is very important for the Rzeszow community that it finally succeeds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u460	Thank you very much. Now I ask the Secretary of State, Mrs. Anna Krupka, who represents the Ministry of Sport. You're welcome, Minister. Bravo, Anne!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question. I will refer to the question of financial issues related to the 3rd European Games in Krakow. Any issues relating to the financing of preparations for the 3rd European Games in Krakow can only be settled after the organisers have agreed on the sporting programme of the event and accepted it by the European Olympic Committee. Such a detailed contract for the organisation of the Games will regulate all organisational and financial issues. An investment plan for sport infrastructure and participation of actors in the costs and estimates of the costs of the organisation, including the modernisation of sports facilities, will be drawn up after the adoption of the sports programme. The Ministry of Sport, of course, declares my willingness to co-finance, modernise or build sports facilities necessary to organize this event in Poland. As regards the question about the investment in Jakuszycka Polen, I will say that the Ministry of Sport granted funding for this investment in the amount of PLN 30 million. There was a question about the money for the salary increase. The Ministry of Sport has secured funds for salary increases for 2020 in budgetary parts. In Part 25: Physical culture and Part 40: Tourism, financial resources were secured for the 6-percent increase of the personal remuneration fund, together with additional annual remuneration and income from salaries. Finally, Mr Szczerby's question about investments in Warsaw, such as the modernization of Skra stadium and the modernization of Stegna skating track. Oh... The Ministry of Sport works on the basis of infrastructure programs, such as Sports Poland or the "Investments of special importance for sport." Within the framework of these programmes, it grants specific funding to those entities which will deposit properly structured in due time... Exactly. ...and fulfilling the basic formal and substantive requirements of the proposal. Investors are mostly local governments. In this case, the investor and owner of the land is the local government of M.S. Warsaw. Mr Trzaskowski has so far not applied for the modernisation of these facilities, for such investments. On the other hand, Mr. Trzaskowski spends money on questionable investments, e.g. in the relaxation zone with industrial pallets among automotive exhaust gases on en. A banker. And on the beach by the Vistula River now. This was the result of money, while Skry Stadium, which is a symbol of the rule of the Civic Platform in the capital, is already in complete ruin. Warsaw is one of the few capitals without athletic stadium, where you can play championship competitions. Of course, such an investment is very necessary, as is the modernization of Stegna's skating track. Both investments can be co-financed from the state budget through the Ministry of Sport or can be co-financed from the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. Just, Mr. President Trzaskowski, file a motion. Mr Szczerba, motivate your President, he is the right person to address your question. We are waiting for proposals for the good of the people of Warsaw and for the good of athletes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Two lines. Mr Szejna, ladies and gentlemen, in quite imprudent words, spoke about the Territorial Defence Forces and being here in the Chamber, I am absolutely unable to react in such a situation. Ladies and gentlemen! The territorial defence forces, the fifth type of Armed Forces, constitute an independent type of Armed Forces, are such a complementary part of the defence potential of the Republic of Poland. Their mission is to defend and interact with local communities. Among the main tasks of the Territorial Defence Forces is to conduct military activities in the event of an outbreak of conflict in cooperation with operational forces and to support the so-called. extra-military agreement, participation in security of reception and development of allied forces, strengthening in specific areas, protection of local communities against attacks in cyberspace and the effects of destabilisation and disinformation, protection of the population against and participation in the eradication of natural disasters. On this last item I would like to focus, ladies and gentlemen. Because it is 2019 that has clearly shown that the creation of the Territorial Defence Army is a very good move from the Government of Law and Justice. In a situation of danger to human life, in a situation of natural disasters, e.g. After the storms in Lublin, the floods in Podkarpacie, in Małopolska, in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, it was the Territorial Defence Army, the soldiers of the territorial military service together with the firefighters of the volunteer firefighters who first arrived to the victims. It was these territorial military soldiers who responded to the call of the commanders to be in their home units within 4 hours at a level of 94%. This is the result, this is the level, which is not very common also in the operating army, and what to say about those who, apart from serving their country, also carry out professionally in various professions, in different positions and in different places. So today, as Deputy Minister of National Defence, I cannot allow the words and comparisons of the territorial military service soldiers to be made here in this Chamber to the forest army or to those who run through the woods. [[Applause]] There is absolutely no objection from the Ministry of National Defence. These are people who give their free, precious time, because they want to serve the Republic, that they want to serve their country, that they want to carry out themselves as deep patriots, to work for our security of our homeland. [[Applause]] There is no reason to believe that it is a forest army that serves nothing good. I'll always object to it when it's said that way. [[Applause]] Second question. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska apparently in the pre-Christmas preparations fervor, probably when she wiped out the macaques for Christmas, didn't notice that exactly on December 20th... It's outrageous what you're saying. ... The Ministry of National Defence received and transferred four Black Hawk helicopters from the Mielec plant to the Special Forces. In January 2019 the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak announced that a contract will be signed for the delivery of four multi-purpose helicopters for special forces, four helicopters, which are ordered in a factory in the Republic of Poland, just in Mielec, and these helicopters will be delivered by the end of 2019 to equip the Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the Government of Law and Justice keeps its word, today the Minister of National Defence keeps his word, and in this case too, we have kept our word. On December 20th, four Black Hawk helicopters were equipped with special forces in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u464	Thank you very much. Now the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Sebastian Skuz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the debate on the draft budget law in the area for which the Minister for Science and Higher Education is responsible, one question was asked. Mr Maciej Gdula asked about the increase in R &amp; D expenditure in relation to gross domestic product. First of all, I would like to clarify that the indicator that you have been talking about relates to expenditure in the entire national economy, not only in the public finance sector. There is no data for 2019 yet, but data for 2017 and 2018 show a sharp increase in this indicator from 1.03% in 2017 to 1,21% in 2018 The effects of the second innovative law, which introduced favourable tax solutions for entrepreneurs who invest in R &amp; D, and increased investment in science and higher education, are visible here. In the state budget for... In the 2020 project, the increase in spending on science and higher education is also highly noticeable, as this is a total increase of more than 10%. This concerns the summing up of the national budget and the budget of EU funds. And in nominal terms, this is an increase of over PLN 2.8 billion compared to the 2019 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u466	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Robaczyński will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u467	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to start by thanking you, and this is where my thanks came from for the Minister of Finance. I, too, would like to thank all the ministers and employees, especially the employees of the Ministry of Finance, for this ant work, which is quite ungrateful. She's been going on all year. For working on this most important law adopted annually by Parliament, a law which defines the financial plan of the State. I would very briefly like to refer to the general statements that have been made and in the questions and in the first statements of your Members in the debate on the budget. What usually appears here is, of course, in a large part there are political statements. I do not wish to refer to them, but in general, these statements show that they should be as high as possible and as low as possible taxes. This, of course, is difficult to reconcile, because it is well known that there is a gap between one and the other that needs to be completed. This gap is debt. Here I would like to point out that, perhaps for the first time - and in any case rarely - there have been no words or accusations in this Chamber against the state budget or the Minister of Finance regarding debt and over-indebtedness. At this point I would like to stop for a moment, because this is the parameter that triggered the discussion always and with each budget bill. He's not raining now because he's not carrying. In fact, this is a very important parameter from the financial side, and it is not likely because this debt is falling systematically - it falls in the sense that it should be understood, i.e. falls in relation to GDP. All these parameters - both debt and deficit, income, expenditure - must be treated together, i.e. on the one hand, it is impossible to talk about increasing expenditure, on the other hand about reducing tax, on the third hand about reducing debt, on the fourth one about reducing deficit. You have to choose something. This has often been about how this budget is designed - a balanced budget - and what it really means. There have been allegations that this budget is balanced. I remember that there have been many opinions in this Chamber that the budget should be balanced. Some of the groups suggested that the principle of budget sustainability should be enshrined in the law at all. From the same directions of this room, words are made today about the god of deficit, about the fetish of a balanced budget. And it's not an idol or a fetish, it's just a balance between revenue and state budget expenditure. This is a fairly clear category: deficit or lack of deficit - i.e. There's as much spending as there's revenue. Of course, the state budget is not the whole public finance sector, but the state budget is the most important part of the public finance sector. And it is good that this part of the public finance sector is sustainable, because if it were unbalanced, it would mean that it has a deficit, that this deficit is adding to all other deficits of the whole financial sector. One of the Members said: at least 1% GDP deficit will be spent. Yeah, that 1%. GDP deficit is, that is, another category and another parameter in the field of public finances, that is, the deficit of the financial sector or the deficit of the local government and government sector. He's supposed to be 1.2%. Next year. And yes, this is one of the lowest deficits in the public finance sector in history, right after last year's deficit. In fact, all these parameters keep the long-term sustainability, the sustainability of public finances in this budget and in public finances. I mean. of course, it can be indebted, but there were years when the debt support was forty-six billion zlotys, because over-indebtedness of the state budget or over-indebtedness of the sector translates into the cost of handling this debt, so it translates into clean expenditure of the state budget in the form of, let's say, 42 - as has been the case - billion zlotys. At present, it is about PLN 27 billion, which means that there are 15 billion saved on the service of the debt itself. The 15 billion in the budget can be used for other things. It is precisely so that there is no situation that the costs of the debt service are eating us other expenses, this budget or these public finances, or at least in this part of the budget, are balanced so that these debt service costs are not excessive and that this debt could fall just so that these purely technical expenses, just for debt service, and for nothing else, are not too high. That is why this budget is balanced. It is not a fetish or it is - as it has been defined - a neoliberal god of the deficit, it is simply a balance between expenditure and revenue so that it does not make sense to spend funds on debt handling. Moreover, it has been said many times that this budget is in line with the expenditure rule, and the expenditure rule is not a fetish or a disconnected concept either. It's just about sticking to the spending rule. Firstly, it ensures the sustainability of public finances in the coming years, and secondly, it makes us well perceived in markets, by investors, etc., so the debt is not only lower, so the service is lower, it is still cheaper. Thanks to what we owe ourselves or what you owe yourself for in general, it is cheaper. Therefore, thanks to this and by maintaining the expenditure rule, thanks to the balanced budget of these measures there is de facto more, we simply do not need to spend them on debt handling. It's not an ideology sucked out of a finger. Of course, you can imagine different concepts, because, of course, you can owe yourself, but also from the same direction, there was a desire to increase expenditure, because there is no need for this, for that or for another sphere, and on the other hand, as I say, the same groups pointed out as an allegation that a dozen other countries of the European Union have a budget surplus. Exactly. You can't have a budget surplus on the one hand... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, you can't eat a cookie and have a cookie. We cannot say that we are going to increase our spending and, at the same time, we are going to have a budget surplus because we have a certain revenue pool. Therefore, if we do not increase these revenues and this can be done by increasing taxes, we will not have a budget surplus if we continue to increase expenditure. Either one or the other, I mean. either the surplus or the deficit, or the middle-up of all these parameters, which, of course, won't be able to provide everything, because everything can't be guaranteed. So it is not possible to ensure, as I said, low taxes or tax elimination and very high expenditure, but it can be middled enough that, as I say, public finances are stable, and the cost of debt service is getting smaller, so that these funds can be used for something else. So I would very much ask for some reasonableness in these discussions. I understand all these statements, which are political and in some sense demagogical, but from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance, it is important how the economy behaves or behaves in the longer term, and whether we are really able to handle the debt that we have, and not to increase it, so that more and more spending can be spent on other purposes than the debt service itself. Briefly yet about budgetary parameters or macroeconomic parameters, which are also important. There were allegations of lying or manipulating, etc. Above all, it is inflation and GDP growth. The GDP growth of the state budget for 2020 is 3.6% and assumed inflation is 2.5%. That's more or less what the different institutions agree with. As far as gross domestic product is concerned, the OECD gives 3.8% , NBP is 3.6%. The state budget is based on 3.7%. So that's more or less what the financial institutions are generally talking about. The same is true of inflation. Although inflation or inflation rate recently reported by the CSO was 3,4% in December , really annual inflation this year should be around 2.3% according to preliminary forecasts. The National Bank of Poland, the Monetary Policy Council, also in today's information, indicates that inflation, following a temporary increase in the first quarter of 2020, will be expected to be close to the inflation target, i.e. 2.5%. Therefore, there are no contradictions, there are no lies from the Ministry of Finance or the manipulation of indicators. Of course, we'll be monitoring it all over the year, but that's pretty much how it's going right now. There was one more thing here. One Member has made such a total criticism of the budget both from these macroeconomic parameters and from the fact that this budget is, first, non-developmental, second, anti-social. On the one hand, Minister Swed has already shown here that these social expenses... Everything you can say about this budget, but certainly not that it's antisocial. These social expenditures, which are foreseen in the budget, are really big. It's hard to talk about that. Of course, there will always be areas in which there is a shortage, but it is certainly difficult to say about this budget that it is antisocial. On the other hand, as regards anti-development, the results of the European budget were presented as an argument. One Member pointed out that this budget was not implemented at PLN 15, 20 billion. It's a little bit of a question of misunderstanding the construction of this budget. These measures, which are in the budget of European funds, do not in principle affect any macroeconomic indicators, such as purely financial ones, namely the deficit of the public finance sector. They affect a little debt, but in the short term, because they are issued and then returned. Indeed, this budget is created in a way that may be a little excessive, but it is based on the needs of individual institutions at the beginning of the year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are government, local and private institutions. It doesn't really work. He is specially created taller so that he does not block the execution of tasks. In all years since the beginning of the European budget in general, i.e. Since 2010, this non-compliance was at the level of PLN 10.20 million. This is not something that is abnormal for this budget, because this budget is intended to provide full funding in general, the quota limits are intended to provide full funding. The fact that it doesn't work every year is normal. On the other hand, it is important to contract and spend those funds which are roughly at the same level in the current perspective and in the previous financial perspective. So this progress is similar. Nor do we see the risk of not spending funds or not investing in the current financial perspective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u468	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in both prints. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, - on the amendment of the Act on subscription fees. The reports shall be printed in no 136 and 129 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities (prints 119 and 120). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities. The draft is contained in print No 119 and the committee's report is in print No 120. High Izbo! This draft law meets the demands made by the social side, entities obliged by law to keep waste records on the basis of a database of data on products and packaging and on waste management, i.e. BDO. It was raised, among others. problems concerning the matching of information systems, interaction with the application programming interface or the possibility of accessing the Internet in different places in Poland and such reservations have been reported. These problems and doubts prompted a group of members of the club Law and Justice - which, incidentally, I have the honour to represent as a representative of applicants - to present a draft in print No 119, which will allow operators who have technical difficulties implementing new solutions to simultaneously keep records on old terms, in paper form, and in BDO for a period of 6 months, i.e. by 30 June 2020 I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues very much for their support for the measures that have made it possible to prepare this solution towards the expectations of the social side in such a short time. The project was submitted in 2019 and on 31 December and on 3 January this year, your marshal addressed it to the first reading in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. High Izbo! It should be stressed that the waste database was introduced by the provisions adopted in the Waste Act in 2012, but its implementation was postponed immediately until 2015. In the seventh term of office of the Sejm, the previous government renewed its implementation by another 3 years, i.e. until 2018. However, significant changes have been made during the previous 8th term of office. Following the amendments made by the Law of 24 November 2017, the waste database has three modules: firstly, the waste database register, secondly, the waste records module and, thirdly, the reporting module. The first of these modules, the entry in the register, was launched on 23 January 2018. I would like to stress here that the deadline for submitting documents for entering the database was mid-2018. The launch of subsequent modules, records and reporting was defined by this amendment of November 2017 as at 1 January 2020, and therefore there was a 2-year vacathio legis for these provisions. The operation of the system for entities entered in the database is to be done electronically by means of an individual account. According to Art. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Waste Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, documents on waste records such as waste transfer cards, municipal waste transfer cards, waste records cards, municipal waste sludge records and other documents listed in paragraph 1. 1 of the same article. 67, is created through an individual account in BDO. In view of the doubts raised in this amendment, the provisions governing the drawing up of waste records of a kind are added - I will say this in quotes - emergency mode for a period of 6 months 2020. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: A total of 12 new paragraphs are added from paragraph 67. 7 to the paragraph. 18. The provision of the paragraph. 7 introduces the possibility to draw up a system of records of waste in paper form or in electronic form outside the BDO during the time of failure. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 specify the obligation for the transporter to have the waste or municipal waste transfer cards or transfer cards respectively in the form set out in that added paragraph. 7. Lips, on the other hand. 10 requires the introduction of information contained in paper or electronic records kept outside the BDO immediately after the accident has ceased, but no later than 30 days, into the waste database. Further paragraphs are added - from the paragraph. 12 to the paragraph. 18 - specify patterns of transfer cards and registration cards. In total, there are seven forms contained in the annexes. Let me remind you, Art. 1 contains amendments to the Waste Act. I have already discussed the first amendment in detail, while further amendments to the article. 1 concern, in the amendment of the second, the provisions relating to reporting, in the amendment of the third, the criminal provisions for failure to enter the relevant data into the BDO within that period of 30 days. On the other hand, the fourth amendment in Article. 1 sets the deadline for the implementation of this emergency solution for 30 June 2020 and contains references to the annexes setting out the model transfer cards and waste records, municipal waste transfer cards, municipal sewage sludge records cards and records of waste electrical and electronic equipment, end-of-life vehicle records and hazardous waste records sheets. High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry took into account a number of amendments prepared by the Legislative Office in the course of detailed work on the project after the first reading. These amendments are editorial and legislative and linguistic. To the article. 1 8 amendments were introduced. These are amendments of this kind that instead of words: this database we use the full name: a database about products and packaging and about waste management. All these amendments are similar to those shown in the documents. Art. 2 in turn includes amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities with regard to the provisions governing the submission of the reports referred to in the provisions of Article. 9n, Art. 9na, Art. 9nb, art. 9o, Art. 9q and Article 9q. 9s, it's the first paragraphs of all these articles. To the article. Two editorial and legislative amendments were adopted. Art. 3 Having taken into account the comments of the Legislative Office, I quote, because this is quite important: Article. 3. The provisions of the Article shall apply. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7.18, Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2a and 2b, Art. 236a Act as amended by Article. 1 and Article 1 9th Act as amended by Art. 2 as amended by this Law shall apply to the keeping of waste records as from 1 January 2020. High Izbo! This entry makes Art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 added to the Waste Act, this provision, which contains a provision on penalties for not including information contained in the waste records drawn up outside the BDO within a 30-day period, will apply from the day following the date of publication. So, possibly or even - I would say - the illusory threat of retroactivity of this provision by the vigilance of the Legislative Office has been eliminated. High Izbo! Art. 4. The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. We know, we all know that decent vacathio legis is 14 days old, but this short day vacathio legis clearly serves users, because the regulations in this project not only impose new obligations on users, but facilitate the preparation of waste records for the first half of the year of the BDO registration module, i.e. they clearly work for the benefit of obliged entities. Therefore, the proposed solutions are not contrary to the principles of a democratic rule of law. On the other hand, I will say that these drafting and legislative amendments have also been introduced in the annexes. According to the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office, the project does not infringe European Union law nor is it a project implementing European Union law. The entire report in print No 120 of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted 27 votes in favour, with no votes against and abstentions, and therefore adopted unanimously. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the draft law contained in the committee's report in print No 120. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u470	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Agnieszka Górska will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose an amendment to the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities (Prints 119 and 120) as follows: In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 in point 2 (a) (a) in Article 2 (1) (a), the following paragraph is added: 9th paragraph. 1 In the introduction to the calculation, the words "and the reports referred to in Article" shall be inserted after the words "communal waste." Paragraph 9o. The declaration is replaced by the declaration or the report is replaced by the words "the declaration or report'. Points (b) and (c) are deleted. On the other hand, in point 3 in Article. 9th paragraph. 2. the words "Article" shall be deleted. Paragraph 9o. 1 and Article 1 Paragraph 9o. 2. The articles referred to in the amendment relate to reports from operators emptying tanks and transporting liquid impurities which are not covered by the obligation to transmit through the BDO database on products and packaging and on waste management. According to the Law of 13 September 1996 on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in the municipalities of Dz. U. z 2019 r., poz. 2010 and 2020 the above reports shall be transmitted in paper form to the mayor, mayor or mayor of the city. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u472	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On 31 December, a draft law was introduced to the Sejm as a parliamentary act at the request of the Ombudsman, as far as the content is concerned. Small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, are concerned with the waste base. I would like to remind you that this IT base aims at ordering and monitoring the entire waste management and, above all, monitoring waste circulation and complete documentation. This waste base is intended to be a functional tool for handling waste management, reporting from this scope and for real implementation of waste policy, as well as preparation for modern waste management, preparation, among others. to join Poland in the rules of the closed-loop economy. I am talking about this because such large IT databases - which are to be functional and friendly, and the functionality of such databases is based on their transparency, accessibility, data aggregation and control capabilities, but also the proper use by all actors, especially those involved in this project - are extremely numerous and heterogeneous. We know, when it comes to such large IT bases for the public, how important it is to construct them and, above all, to describe their functionality in such a way that they can be built properly. Why am I talking about this? Because when this project came along, there was another bill, a few days after the committee was promised that everything was working perfectly and there was no problem at all, I thought - there are some who remember such a film standard - Groundhog's Day. Because we've actually had since 2015... President Duda signed a law in 2015, which has just been signed by President Duda. further extended the implementation of this solution. This extension was due to the fact that by 2015 this base was to be prepared and implemented, but at that time it was not effectively, until the end of the difficult tender for such a professional base, among others. has not been successfully decided. An appeal has been lodged and this appeal has been deemed to have imposed on the payer to provide for a longer period of preparation for the implementation of such a base. The effect was therefore to propose an extension of the deadline in order to be able to once again prepare a tender with sufficient time to prepare such a base. After the change of government there is another amendment of the law, this time the Ministry resigns from the order to prepare such a professional base in a professional public tender and will implement the fallen provisions in its own way in agile mode. Minister Mazurek, who, because he was dismissed today, probably also for these reasons, seems to be... Come on, Member, don't go beyond good customs. I do not want to quote his statement, because first it was agile programming - those who move in IT systems know what this means - but it was supposed to be done by the ministry's employees, then it turned out that these ministry employees had to support other people's work, these orders were expanding and I think the authors said that they would agile with their colleagues, but it was more than Excel, they didn't give advice. There has been another change and once again swearing that everything is okay, everything will be gradually implemented, but in-house it will be commissioned by the State Institute of the Ministry, finally (the bell) under the Ministry's agenda... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u474	Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Member. Thank you, Madam President, you have exceeded your time. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u475	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary draft amendment of the law regulates an area important for the life and functioning of hundreds of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs - waste data database, BDO. I do not want to talk here about the grieving way, procedure, quantity and frequency of chaotic changes, amendments made to the amendments and subsequent changes to the relevant laws and the functioning of the electronic recording system or the API itself. The decision to cancel Sławomir Mazurka from the position of Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate, as reported by the Ministry of Climate on Twitter, is most clear about how bad it is in waste management. The Minister was responsible for waste, he was involved in the preparation of the amendment of the Waste Act and the amendment of the Law on Order and Cleanliness in Municipalities. Over the past months, he has been implementing a government waste database project to which companies have to report the amount of waste they generate. The voice of local governments and entrepreneurs, whom we hosted at the meeting of the environmental committee and who talked about how bad it is with BDO and how bad it is with API, seems to have reached decision makers because it was loud and audible. The amendment allowing for 6 months in parallel to the electronic report is an attempt to save the situation that you yourself have brought. However, it is a pity that changes have not been adopted in 2019, as we have proposed, since last year there was a proposal to amend the law so as not to expose businesses to legal uncertainty and not to implement legislation that works backwards. The amendment itself has become necessary in the current emergency situation and as a club We will, of course, support the Left. Unfortunately, you have left thousands of companies obliged to report electronically for 2019 in a very difficult situation, where it is possible to postpone the deadline only in the event of a system failure, which the state, the term omen, assumes by law. Knowing that there may be problems in this area, I ask for the possibility of reporting via BDO and the traditional method for 2019 by 30 June 2020. API, which would allow reporting from the existing database. The creation of this interface is crucial, as I appeal to you once again, and we also talked about this at the meeting of the Environment Committee, so that you also do this API for reporting. I would like to point out that until yesterday there was no model report on the implementation of the obligation of entrepreneurs and the reporting module, therefore Polish entrepreneurs cannot currently carry out preparatory work to submit reports by BDO for 2019. The Minister's appeal is one thing, the creation of a functioning IT system and interfaces is the other. Ladies and gentlemen, in the interest of saving the situation of Polish companies, given the above arguments, we are in favour of the proposed project, but I would like to ask for changes to it that allow reporting to tens of thousands of companies on existing terms by June 2020. Here I have an amendment to the Parliamentary bill amending the Waste Act and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities, Parliamentary printing No 119. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 2 2a and 2b are added. 2c as follows: Until 30 June 2020, reports may be drawn up on the basis of existing rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u476	Thank you, sir. Now Mr Andrzej Grzyb - on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u477	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities, print 119, which is a parliamentary novel prepared by a group of Members, is reasonable, although the history of the change is a little longer, because the club of the Polish People's Party was the first to declare the need to extend this discussed deadline of introduction in accordance with the article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act of commitment to introduce an electronic waste database as of 1 January 2020 so-called BDO. We already found, in December, on the basis of the intervention of numerous stakeholders, entrepreneurs, but also signals from the administration, that it would be difficult to implement in a consistent manner this base because of a number of doubts which do not come from us as Members, but come from stakeholders, in particular entrepreneurs. A number of interventions came not only to the representatives of this House but also to the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises who spoke on this matter. It was raised, among others. the inconspicuous criteria for which entities should be included in the waste database. This is also expressed in estimates of how many of these companies should be registered. The Ministry predicts that about 300,000. At the moment, at yesterday's we have 178 entities that have registered. Furthermore, on 23 December the Regulation entered into force, which amended the criteria for entities keeping waste records obliged to obtain an entry into the BDO. This was, of course, a very important condition of this proposal to the PSL parliamentary club, and subsequently, after rejecting this novel that we have proposed, this project, which is in print no. 119, which we are currently discussing at second reading. But I would also like to signal that the deadline is postponed and introduced, among others. Also, the paper version of these reports for the six-month period does not remove all the doubts raised by business representatives, in particular recyclers, but also market participants, during our discussions in committee. These issues were signalled, among others. Leviatan, recycling companies, as well as representatives of local governments. There is, for example. the question of clarification to an electronic database or the issue of a summary waste card, reporting on the basis of a new system. These are issues that are still not quite complete, so to speak, fully accepted by those who will have to comply with the provisions of this law, novels. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the novel drawn up here by the Group of Members fulfils this basic condition that it is dismissing the deadline for implementation, allowing for this dual system. This is somewhat reassuring, although it does not solve all the problems that are related to this long history of the implementation of this system, because the directive, which refers to this issue, dates back to 2008, and in fact this system would be implemented by the end of June next year in accordance with the provisions of the directive implemented by Poland. With a view to this and the additional information that affects us, we would like to ask, as a parliamentary club of PSL - Coalition Polska - Kukiz15, in support of this novel in general, to consider a proposal to change the date of entry into force of the article. 236a for another six months as well as Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3, 31 July to 31 January 2021 I would like to make an appropriate amendment to this matter to the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u478	Thank you, sir. Twelve ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. You are the first question asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition. There isn't any either. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Club of the Civic Coalition. There isn't any either. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party. There isn't. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left. You're welcome, sir. The left is, was and will be. One minute, of course. And I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are investigating a draft law on the general part of the Waste Act already passed on the maintenance of cleanliness in municipalities. The problem, however, is not in the submitted submission that we have seen today, but in the fact that at the turn of 2019/2020 municipalities, in order to implement the provisions of the law, they are adopting resolutions which cause the fees for garbage to rise dramatically. Please explain and justify what happened in Poland, that as a result of the passed law, local residents are charged with such a high increase in waste charges. Self-governments are helpless. This drastic increase in the financial burden on families must be urgently clarified and mitigated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left Club. There's no envoy? Oh, the Left isn't here either. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club. There isn't. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thousands of Polish entrepreneurs are waiting for this law to be amended as if it were an amnesty. And all of this could have been avoided if it hadn't been for the inability of the current ruling crew, who only held power for five years in a row and was still learning. It's only a pity that on the body of those who save this budget and deliver money to it. And in 2012, who was in charge, sir? Eight years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wonder if you are aware of the chaos you have caused in the life of Polish entrepreneurs. All those who do business. Not only those who are serious about waste activities but who so far thought that they had little to do with it. The Marshal's office in the voivodship from which I was born still a few days ago was 20,000. applications for a BDO number. They said they didn't even count. The queues to the marshal's office were not on one floor. I'm hoping that this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u482	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the introduction of electronic records was intended to limit the grey field of waste trading. At the moment, we're actually on average prepared to make this work, that thought. I wanted to ask the Minister how he estimated the introduction of this law, how much gray area is there in this trade and how much will it be after the next year with such, let's say, disdain. I don't want to call it more explicit, but we signaled that the system itself cannot exist from the first one, because 180,000. companies didn't sign up for this. So the mess will cause the gray sphere to expand. Does the Ministry have any respect for what will happen during this transition period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Borys, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill and this extraordinary emotion in the mouth of the rapporteur are nothing like the great chaos that you have caused. This is nothing more than saving the situation resulting from these omissions and omissions that you have led to, and which simply burden entrepreneurs. Is the resignation of Minister Sławomir Evening clearly connected with the chaos you led to? Yes... Does he know what he's talking about? Mazurka, I'm sorry. I would like to make it clear and ask the rapporteur and the absent Minister Sławomir Mazurk, whether the records and the mess that is taking place are related to the fact that we are hiding the full waste information. About the hundreds of illegal landfills that functioned in Poland, those that were burning, those that the government simply couldn't handle. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Millions of tons... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u486	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Cleanliness and Order Act in municipalities does not take into account many key issues concerning inter alia. the recycling levels that municipalities are required to obtain for 2020 and the draft regulation, which shows that the attainment of the levels is unrealistic. No tools to verify the number of persons indicated in the declarations. Exclusions from non-inhabited real estate systems, resulting in a lack of leakage of the system. Waste collected selectively from uninhabited properties, and the consequence is that the raw materials can be returned outside the system, on which, of course, the municipalities lose. The costs of municipal waste management, which are growing all the time, have also not been taken into account and it is not known what level they will reach. Several municipalities are already at the statutory threshold and costs are still rising. I would like to ask you to review the draft amendment of the law again and to consider the solution, among others. Those problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u488	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u489	I wanted to finish my previous statement and say that the Civic Platform Club will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. With all due respect, we know it's a cancer slice: it makes it a little less painful, but it doesn't solve anything. But why doesn't he solve anything? How are garbage bills higher in Poland than in Germany, higher than in the Czech Republic, higher than in many other countries that have perfect waste management? For example, a four - person family in Dresden pays 54 zlotys a month for garbage shipments. In Wrocław, 88 PLN per month is paid for the same thing. Dresden's bill is also lower than the cost of exporting garbage in Warsaw - 94 zł, in Poznań - 64 zł, in Łódź - 96 zł, in Prague - 40 zł per month after the same changes related to the transparency of waste management according to the requirements of the European Union. We pay for your mess. We don't pay for our garbage, we pay for your mess. It's this mess that costs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u490	Thank you very much, Member. You made it this time. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u491	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is a very important law relating to matters related to the database on products and packaging and waste management. I have a question relating to cooperation with local governments, specifically with marshal authorities. We know that the applications submitted by entrepreneurs, the marshal offices entered into the database. I was just going to ask: Minister, how did the Marshal's offices carry out their duties? How did they carry out all that was in this law, and what was strictly related to the tasks to be carried out by the marshals' offices? What did it look like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u492	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Climate Ministry, Mr Ireneusz Zba, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The waste database system was introduced by the 2012 Act. Later, as the applicant Anna Paluch explained in detail... Rapporteur. ... at the same time the rapporteur of the committee, the introduction of the database was postponed until 2015. Then, in 2015, it was postponed to the next period, which is what Gabriel Lenartowicz mentioned. It was about the cancellation of the tender already announced for the implementation of the waste database due to the fact that at that time the regulations, which the state, the coalition of PO-PSL, introduced at that time, were incomplete. There were no implementing regulations in this respect and the tender was subject to significant legal disadvantages. Therefore, the Ministry of Environment proposed another way, so-called. method in house. The Institute for Environmental Protection carried out this task very well and in my opinion it did so very well. At the beginning of my speech, I would also like to comment on the information expressed in the questions of individual parliamentarians, referring to the person of Mr Sławomir Mazurk, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment, and now the Ministry of Climate. It's about insinuations that supposedly his departure from the ministry is related to problems with the waste database. Nothing more wrong. I would like to thank Mr Sławomir Mazurk, here in the Seym, on behalf of the Minister of Climate, for the excellent professional work he has done on the preparation of the entire bill, the implementation of the waste database. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in cooperation with the Institute for Environmental Protection, several hundred trainings have been carried out in this area. Over $9,000. persons participated in these trainings, those who represented entrepreneurs, stakeholders who already functioned in this waste database. It must be said that the Minister's departure is not related to this fact. I don't want to talk about the details. These are also the Minister's personal decisions. Given the political system that operates in our country, Minister Mazurek resigned with all the ministers, secretaries and Undersecretaries of State in connection with the end of the previous term of office of the Sejm. For the new term of office of the Sejm, the Minister of Climate Michał Kurtyka, completing or currently choosing co-workers, formulates the composition of his ministry. Minister Mazurek has chosen another way. I wish him luck in his new role. I'm sure he'll be doing a great job. As I said earlier, we should only thank you for your work, for your hard work and for preparing a very good bill. Before I go to the individual answers to the questions of your parliamentarians, your Members, I would like to say, please, that the voices that appear that whatever is not working are absolutely out of place. The waste database works perfectly, I say it with full responsibility. It is an intuitive system, perfectly organized, as evidenced by the fact that over 155 thousand have been generated in the last 7 days. waste transfer cards. I'll tell you very carefully. Data from today, from hours. 16. The registered entities were 180 866. Very many people, entrepreneurs praise the functioning of the waste database. However, problematic issues arise from the fact that, despite the long implementation period, the entry into force of the waste database and the obligation to register in the waste database, which expired on 24 July 2018, to date, a large number of entrepreneurs have not registered in the waste database. In December last year there was a accumulation of applications submitted to various marshal offices. There was a kind of environmental pressure which, in fact, caused the fact that during a period of one and a half years of registration, which was intended in accordance with the time limits set in the Act, it did not do so. But as the Ministry of Climate, we are very much in favour of the proposal of the Members of the applicants who have noticed this problem. We don't stand in the position that we're going to insist that if anyone has a deadline, they have time to register, and he hasn't done it, he's guilty of it. If this is the case, we believe that the draft amendment proposed by a group of Members of the applicants meets the expectations of this group of entrepreneurs, which has not yet done so. This proposal should therefore be supported. I'll answer your questions one at a time. Mr Wiesław Bluj of the Left. Mr President, you have made a mistake and addressed it wrong because the waste database does not concern the issue you have asked for at all. These issues are regulated in the law on the maintenance of order and cleanliness in municipalities and are completely non-existent and have no bearing on the issues we are talking about today and which are concerned by the parliamentary draft law. In order to respect your interest in this issue, I invite you on Friday to the meeting here, in the plenary room, when we will speak on this subject in the current information and there will be comprehensive information from the climate minister presented in this regard. Mr Dariusz Klimczak from the Polish Coalition. Mr President, could chaos have been avoided? I would like to say that there is no chaos - as I said earlier - as the perfectly functioning base shows. Within 7 days, ladies and gentlemen, over 157,000. waste transfer cards, 180 thousand. registered persons. The base really works without the slightest charge. Technically, it's an intuitive base. It also has ample capacity to execute orders, so that in 1 second, in 1 minute several thousand people can register independently, transfer a card informing about the transfer of waste to the counterparty or the receipt of such waste. So that these are the ordinary populist issues that you have insinuated in your question. Mr Marek Dyduch of the Left. What's the size of the grey zone? It is difficult, sir, to measure and estimate this. In fact, can we use any reliable methodology that would be able to estimate the size of the grey zone? I would like to say that the Government of Law and Justice has been effectively fighting the grey zone for a long time, and in the near future, we will be proposing new solutions in January to introduce extended producer responsibility and the bail-out system for packaging that will definitely seal the whole system and lead to lower prices for waste. Mr Marek Dyduch seems to have made a mistake because he said that 180,000 did not register. On the contrary, more than 180 thousand. operators trading waste have registered in the waste database. Mr Piotr Boris of the Civic Coalition. Like I said, I'd like to make a point. I'm definitely denouncing it, with all my power and full responsibility. Minister Sławomir Mazurek and his departure from the ministry - this has nothing to do with the issue of the current amendment by the parliamentary draft of the Act or with possible insinuations about the malfunctioning of the waste database. I also don't see the mess, and I recommend checking and logging into the waste database. Possible discrepancies - I can also say about this - which are reported by stakeholders or may be reported by entrepreneurs, may result from the fact that the country of entrepreneurs uses outdated or incorrect browsers or outdated computer programs. But the waste database on the first page when we enter it - check it - has detailed information about which programs to use, which browsers to use. In our experience, unfortunately, many of these instructions do not read before trying to register. But I think that after that time, right now, in January, this knowledge has increased widely and there will be no problem with using the waste database. Mr Rafał Adamczyk of the Left also asks about matters concerning uninhabited properties. All of this, i.e. the whole field of functioning of waste in the municipal system, is regulated by the Cleanliness and Order Act in the municipalities and this does not apply to the waste database. So we will be talking about these issues in detail on Friday as part of the current information. I invite you to attend the Sejm. Mrs Lenartowicz asked about the prices and the waste collection bills. She said that in Poland they are higher than in Germany and that there are mechanisms for reducing them. Madam President, the price reduction mechanisms were introduced in the July Act. R. on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. Here is also the issue of municipal policy implemented by individual local authorities. We will certainly aim to reduce these prices, and this is also the impulses of the market. We will talk about waste prices on Friday as part of current information. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. As far as marshal offices are concerned, honourable Member, it must be said that the dynamics of the various offices differed. In some, delays occurred and upsurge occurred just in December, when the deadline for the end of December was due. Ladies and gentlemen, without looking for any blame on the part of local authorities or on the part of entrepreneurs, I must say that with full acceptance we approach the parliamentary project. I also accept, on behalf of the Minister for Climate Affairs, the amendment that you have tabled. This is a de facto legislative amendment, which must be carried out in full as foreseen for the adoption of amendments, with the approval of the amendment by the committee, because there has been some inaccuracies, one can say, a typographical mistake. It has to be verified, because it may not be about waste, but about liquid impurities that we do not record in the waste database. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the other amendments, I do not accept the amendments tabled by Members of the Left and Members of the PSL. The amendment tabled by Mr Andrzej Grzyb aims to do so, Mr Grzyb, in order to postpone, as in 2012, until 2015, and then until 2017, and indefinitely, the entry into force of the waste database. It also prevents us from accepting your parliamentary project submitted in December Ub. r., because a single-purpose, very hulled proposal without annexes, without the whole system, would not allow the introduction of a law which would simply be incorrect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal, High Izbo. As I said, on behalf of the Climate Minister, I accept the request made by the Members of the applicants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u494	Does the rapporteur of the committee want to speak? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u495	Very briefly, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! A few years ago, we were investigating the Supreme Audit Chamber's report, which estimated a grey zone in the field of waste management at 30-50%. Just as approximate and estimated, the definition shows how difficult it is without a functioning waste database to assess what is happening in waste management. And since we bear such expenditures for proper disposal of waste, this should be done in the manner provided by the legislation. That's the first line. The issue of garbage bills supposedly higher in Poland than in Germany. No one has monopolized waste management more as a result of the introduction of regionalisation and RIPOKs than the government that your party colleagues have established, the PO-PSL government. It is only demonopoliation of waste management that gives hope that market rules will work, i.e. the principle of competition in the market. Competition always leads to lower prices and we hope that this will happen. [[Applause]] As regards the shameful attacks, I would like to say once again: At the beginning of my speech on behalf of a group of Members of the applicants, I thanked Minister Sławomir Mazurk and his colleagues for their exemplary cooperation and for supporting our actions. And while we are talking about what has been going on in the governments, my dear Member... But he signed... You signed President Duda, but the government of your party colleagues has prepared another delay in the implementation of the bill, because it's best to do scams in muddy water. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that the Minister of the Government of PO-PSL tried to create a waste database in the years of your government's activities with the participation of organizations grouping large foreign entities, which would impair small Polish entities, which was contrary to the constitution. Only in the subcommittee, when I requested expertise from the Office of Sejm Analysis, your minister stopped his untimely urges. And now it's in the media as Janusz O., so please tell yourself why this base couldn't have been built for so long. Ha, ha, ha! Janusz O. There's more dots over here and I'm not gonna bet. I thank Minister Mazurko once again for his high quality work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u496	Thank you, Member. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office (prints 89 and 136). I would very kindly ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u497	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presentation to the High Sejm of a draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was a necessity, mainly because of the very important issues that concern the functioning of this school in the context of the management of property and finances. It has often been so that this school, on the basis of various legal interpretations, has often had problems with it. The general principle was that this economy should be governed by the Law on Higher Education. As you remember, the Law on Higher Education was repealed in 2018 when the Law on Higher Education and Science was adopted. Art. The 4th Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office has become pointless and is proposed to repeal it by means of this amendment because it does not correspond in any way to the new Law on Higher Education and Science. That is why we have decided to submit to the Sejm a draft amendment to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office so as to establish uniform rules for the management of property and finances in the case of the Sejm, and so it has happened. I will not exactly justify this project, I have only said in general about the principles that led the authors of this bill. This draft was discussed at this meeting at first reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, considering this draft law, has made several changes. This is precisely the case with regard to the six amendments, which have been introduced primarily as a result of the presentation of the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, so that transparent rules can be established for the operation of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the context of the management of property and finances so that there is no longer any doubt. I am so convinced that this law will make this law complementary in this respect. Time will probably show, but I think what we are proposing to the High Sejm today is a law that makes good on this subject. In particular, it is important to clarify those provisions which are set out in the Amending Act in order to align them primarily with the applicable tax law, in order to establish this school in a very specific way, in the context of tax rules and other laws, which will be necessary for the school to carry out its tasks in the field of property and financial management properly. There is also an important amendment which, in fact, in this catalogue, which was designed in this law, sets out the revenue of this school so as not to expose the school to the charge in the event of the granting of the so-called. State aid. I am convinced that the bill will be adopted well, because in the course of the committee work it has been adopted without any vote of objection. I am so convinced that during this debate during the second reading, everything will pass, so to speak, on the agenda, because this law has been thoroughly examined. I would like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister who supervises this school, to which the Minister will submit both a monthly and an annual report on financial activity and property management. On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I ask the High Sejm to approve the draft law annexed to print 136. As I have already mentioned, this bill was passed by the committee without any vote of objection, and I ask the High Sejm kindly to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u498	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mrs Anna Milczanowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is the institution responsible for initial and continuous training of judicial staff and prosecutors in the Republic of Poland. Since it has a significant function, the designated state-owned legal person requires that its rules of operation be regulated in a clear way, preventing the emergence of interpretative doubts, and therefore the school will be financed, subsidised by the Minister of Justice, by the Ministry of Justice, by the Minister of Justice, to supervise this school as well as by the Minister of Justice. Everything was properly regulated in the draft law, also during yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u500	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. I invite Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We still have, as we had at the first reading of this proposal, reservations about the procedure for notification by the European Commission, which we believe should function in the case of this law, which is a parliamentary project, is adopted as a matter of urgency. Therefore, the authority authorized to do so is the Marshal of the Sejm. From this point on, I called on the Marshal of the Sejm to initiate such a procedure, because it is not only the essence of the matter that the school has business revenues, but the problem cloud concerns offering products or services on a given market. And that is the case with the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Nor do we agree with this process once again with the act as a matter of urgency. In our opinion, this law absolutely does not require such a mode. This could have been done in a normal process, not in such a 24-hour procedure, as we have been unfortunately dealing with all the recent projects that were in this Parliament's term of office, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. That's why we're gonna ask for... We have so many reservations about this bill. We believe that because the matter is that it needs to be regulated, we will eventually hold back and we will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u502	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u503	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to start on behalf of the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club by referring to the words that have been made here by the representative, the rapporteur, that, despite some reservations from the previous speaker, there are no more reservations about the idea of change. And that's how our club looks at this project. On the other hand, I would like to use this, I think, a dominant atmosphere just to try one important reservation also in this bill to eliminate, because we think there is a good opportunity for this. This reservation follows from the Act amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws adopted on 20 July 2018. She was, of course, originally prosecuted as a law amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws. And then, contrary to some advice or reservations from many Members, the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was amended as well. And here, in our opinion, arbitraryly and without any special justification, there was a restriction on the age of admission to the application at school - a limit of 35 years for candidates for judge and prosecutor applications and 40 years for candidates for the supplementary application and a supplementary application for prosecutors. This solution has since aroused numerous protests, which were addressed - I think - not only as an MEP, but also as many of the representatives of this House, with a request to intervene in this matter. I allow myself today to use this second reading to introduce such an amendment to consider this work. Because there are many voices that say that this is a manifest violation of the principle of equal treatment and lack of logic from the point of view of the organisation of justice. These provisions were questioned whether they were also the subject of an analysis by the Ombudsman, who also appeared in this case to the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, without getting into the details - I think there will be an opportunity in the committee to make this more extensive - I allow myself to make such an amendment on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u504	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no votes. So I'm closing the list. That's one thing. Secondly, the rapporteur has given up the opportunity to speak, for which I warmly thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on subscription fees (prints No 97 and 129). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee. We may succeed and this report will not be long.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u505	Thank you very much, Marshal. I don't think it's gonna be long. I'll see you in the I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on the draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, print No 97. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration at its 3rd meeting on 8 January 2020. The Committee on Culture and Media after considering this draft law at its meeting on 8 January this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the draft law attached to the paper. A number of amendments were tabled during the work of the Committee on Culture and Media. The first amendment, or actually two amendments, concerned the amendment of the title of the Act and the introduction of a provision repealing one of the paragraphs of the Radio and Television Act. This amendment concerning the Act on Radiophony and Television raised some doubts on the part of the Legislative Office. The amendment to the Act on Radiophony and Television to the Act on Subscription Fees may go beyond the scope of the revised Act on Subscription Fees. This amendment, these two amendments, were adopted by 13 votes in favour, with 11 votes against and one abstention. An application for rejection of the draft law in its entirety has already been submitted. This request was rejected by the committee. The committee then considered a number of amendments to the bill, which aimed, among others, at ordering the bill. shortening the procedure for granting public service broadcasting to public authorities of securities. Indeed, this cycle of adopted and compatible amendments is moving in this direction. These amendments were adopted by a majority. There was another question as to whether this draft law raised the issue of the future, i.e. the years 2021 to 2024. Finally, in the vote on the draft law as a whole, it was welcomed by 15 votes in favour, with 13 votes against. Thus, in general, the Committee on Culture and Media recommends that the High House adopt a draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u506	Thank you very much for presenting the bill in a short but very substantive way. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Rafał Bochenk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u507	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to amend the Act on Subscription Fees. Ladies and gentlemen! These amendments, which Mr Babinetz had just discussed, are editorial, also ordering, as well as fulfilling certain deadlines which were originally designed in the draft law originally submitted. In view of the ongoing legislative work, these deadlines had to change, they had to be extended. That is why we had to extend it and introduce an amendment to this law, which, as the rapporteur has already said, was, of course, accepted and is, as far as possible, justified and desirable. Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already said in the plenary session and debate, this law is as much in line with international law as possible, with European Union law, it also responds to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, as well as the European Commission, and is an attempt to restore the potential of public media in line with these suggestions and international recommendations, based on the creation of stable, safe, predictable and transparent rules for financing public media, because it is these conditions that should be determined by Parliament or by any authority in the European Union in establishing the rules for financing public media, and that the authorities of individual European Union Member States should be guided in line with these recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, unfortunately, our public media have faced many difficulties, limited their influence, for example through subscription, through not only statutory actions, but also political actions. People were expelled because these public media were not only dismantled financially but also dismantled because of this personal factor. People were expelled from public media, moving them to external companies, from which they were to provide services for public television. There have been almost 1,5 thousand such people since 2014. They were transferred to LeasingTeam - a very famous action, coordinated by the Platform and PSL. Therefore, we believe that this law is very well founded and should be implemented, because it guarantees, as in the case of solutions that exist in the European Union, stable funding up to PLN 1950 million. The amount to which this money will be distributed between individual radio and television broadcasters, as well as regional centres which need to be rebuilt, will be decided by an independent constitutional body such as the National Radio and Television Council. The financial support from the state budget for public media in Poland, which we are currently working on and working on, is absolutely nothing new, because these are solutions that are already in force or are already being implemented in the countries of the European Union for many years. Similar compensations have been examined, for example in France, with budget support also from the media in Italy, also in Germany - much, much bigger than what we are dealing with here. I would just like to add, ladies and gentlemen, that the report of the European Union of Broadcasters shows that the media in 23 European countries is more financed by budget subsidies than by subscription. They don't serve one party. On the other hand, with regard to such arguments, also of a political nature, which occurred here during the plenary debate and also in the committee, you will allow me to refer briefly to them, because very often the opposition raised various, bizarre, in my opinion of course, allegations. Without strong, stable public media, which will look at politicians' hands, as this fourth power stands, there is no real rule of law, there is no democracy. We also want to strengthen this democracy by strengthening public media. Without strong, pluralist public media, we wouldn't even know about the reprivatization event, the tapes from the Owl and Friends restaurant... Scandal. Banasio. ...we wouldn't know either, ladies and gentlemen, about Neumann's tapes, and we wouldn't know, ladies and gentlemen... Banasio. About Banasie's affair. ...of the questionable actions of Marshal Grodzki. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the power of public media. [[Applause]] Thanks to the public media, we have real democracy. That's why we should take this project... Banasia, let me see. ...and this project should work as much as possible. We're counting on you to agree with this, too. Thank you. [[Applause]] He made me laugh.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u508	Thank you very much. Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u509	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Spokesman managed to make me laugh, and I thought he was still a spokesperson. I can't laugh anymore at 12:30. Ladies and gentlemen, January 8th at about an hour. 12 noon, about 12, we were actually moved here by the amount of PLN 2 billion, which is to fund the money of President Kurski. Then we made it clear how the 2 billion zlotys drawn from taxpayers' pockets could be used better. At the same time, we said that 2 billion PLN is the amount that is to finance a lie, a scoundrel and a tack. And I repeat what I said in this debate. That's what it looked like. Well, I would like to say that this January 8th at the committee meeting has shown that we have one more task to finance. Because this $2 billion, what a public broadcaster does, how this bill was prepared, is obviously scandalous, but what happened at the committee meeting... I'd say I've been in this Seym for a long time, and I've seen things, and I've been involved in various events, but the truth is, I've told you that if I'm so slightly updating the bill on subscription fees, I'm going to revise the radio and television bill in the course of the project process... This thing that at first reading wasn't mentioned at all, which wasn't in the introduction, and what, it seemed, was a surprise to almost everyone. Although no, because after that majority of the government raised their hands, voting in favour, despite the delicate suggestion of the Legislative Bureau, that it is such an amendment that goes beyond the matter of the bill... I really remember quite well. If Members, who do not have to be excellent lawyers, hear from the representatives of the Legislative Office that something goes beyond the matter of the law, they do not pass it because they fear that someone will later challenge it to the Constitutional Tribunal and the entire bill will go to hell. But what's the fear of the majority who raised their hands and accepted this amendment? The social discovery of Kaczyński's president, the face of a deformity of justice or the amateur salad consumed in the Seym Hall? Most of them aren't afraid of anything in this court because there's no tribunal. So the amendment was accepted. But it's not like there's an amendment to the Radio and Television Act. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, such a minor amendment, in the Radio and Television Act we called lex specialis, removes the record that public media boards count from one to three members. And this amendment says no. We're moving to the Commercial Companies Code, because these media are companies. And what do the board of directors look like in the commercial code? The board of directors is: one or more. Ladies and gentlemen, these 2 billion, apart from what I said earlier, have yet to go to those who need to be bought to go to these boards, because I understand that this is the essence. And to tell you the truth, I'm wondering if this was really about 2 billion or these boards, because I don't know what's more important to law and justice. I think both, I just don't know if President Kurski should be happy about being scared. Because I don't know if they're gonna make him stronger, or if they're gonna corner him. Anyway, this project is a pure scandal. I am already about the second violation of the rules also constitutional, good legislation, i.e. I don't forget, so I'm only left on behalf of my club to file a third motion to reject this project, and that's what I'm doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Beautiful. Congratulations. You were great.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u510	Thank you kindly, Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus from the parliamentary club of the Left made a written statement, which I accepted. At the moment, I cordially invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederation's Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir, and kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! We're in such a good group that we can tell the whole truth about reality here. I tried to signal it in a telegraph brief, paying attention to the fact that there is no such money, which on TV, called the confusion of the opponent, the public, the opponent, i.e. the nation, us normal Poles, there is no such money that could not be burned, squandered there, there is no such sum, because there are specialists in the film and television industry, which is known to me for my previous life, of course from various stories of strange content of production managers and producers. It is known that they work especially smart people, they arrange estimates, they then report and therefore the High Chamber, with all due respect, especially with this crowd, this failure, at this rate of procession, even if they call some auditors, they will not be able to find much there at Woronicz Square in Warsaw. You just shouldn't feed this Leviathan. Do not feed this company, which is the heritage of the Polish People's Republic in a pure form. Speaking of Warsaw Uprising Square, I spent several dozen minutes there from the evening. I was returned by someone nice, because there is no shortage of nice, good Poles, attention to the fact that that is where you invest in raising to a higher level of television infrastructure - you know, there is a famous TVP Dezinfo station - while everyone knows that it goes to liquidation anyway, because TVP Dezinfo will move to Voronicz, where for years is the Pyramid of Cheops, this post-peerelow construction, but certainly to the height. So you want to feed people who manage funds in this way. I was also reminded by a man working in this company that there are at least a few projects in recent seasons that are even asking for an audit. Maybe I'll follow this lead to the measure of my humble Members' forces and time. That's it, like Eurovision Junior. Well, that's the classic of the species, it seems, just the way to pass up more, because there are millions of budgets going, it seems that in this case, the worst of the millions with trace viewing for Eurovision, I'm not going to tell the senior, but the adult. Feeding this Leviathan is a barren activity, and if anyone is aware of these facts, it seems to me that it is also a sharing in iniquity, wickedness, who knows, maybe in some cases in crime. Mr. Jarosław Kurski is a completely unbelievable person. Jarosław or Jacek? I'm always wrong. I'm always wrong, yeah. But everything in the family stays. That's right, Jarosław. This is the man who obtained the nomination for President of Polish Television SA in an illegal manner. The case was brought before the court, and it was brought by Mr Bogdan Tchaikowski, ours, so to speak, by the co-contra-candidate in this concession process. Unlawful, late delivery of documents. They were later covered, covered with notabene by the administration office here, at the village. One of the gates leading to this object was involved in a false statement. How can such a notoriously dishonest man be entrusted with another 2 billion? As mentioned here around noon, this is half of what the High House is going to devote through the government to the entire culture in the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have a good night. God bless you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u512	Thank you, sir. Five Members have asked questions. Would any of you like to ask me another question? I'm closing the list. I cordially ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch of the Civic Coalition to ask a question. There's one minute at your disposal, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Because Mr Bochenek has announced the weather for those who like clichés, I will immediately ask: Why didn't you say that there were amendments to the Radio and Television Act in second reading? Mr Sosnierz, who was lost, was not even able to properly justify this amendment by following the party's recommendation. Lawyers of the Legal Office said that these are two legal matters, that this is not the way to proceed, but Suski's theatrical technician replied: so what. It's like the first half of the game is played according to known rules, but the second, after the activist arrives, on completely different terms. Why are you breaking the law? Why aren't you following the legal rules? Mr Sosnierz and the other members of the committee must be asleep by now, they must be having nightmares, but I will answer with Mr Suski: so what. But seriously, it's really embarrassing that this is how you work in the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u514	Thank you very much for asking the question. Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition, I cordially invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! And we're working under the cover of the night again. Nearly PLN 2 billion is spent on public television resuscitation, which is only by name public television. Where are the key principles that underpin media independence, such as pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence? We pay 2 billion, we, all Poles, for partying, for hating, aggression, for the language of hatred that led to a huge tragedy last year. I move that we all come to our senses. This cannot be the case. We spend more on public funding, de facto party media than on saving tens of thousands of Polish lives in normal cancer prevention. Eventually, your actions must be moderated. The Poles will simply charge you for this. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u516	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Falej, representing the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Proceding the subscription law is an example which once again shows the way in which the law is proceded in this Seym, which shows what is the approach to legislation under the leadership of the PiS. What happened is, in my opinion, a scandal and, of course, a violation of the law. Mr Bochenek spoke about raising the potential of public media that the bill is intended to ensure a transparent way of financing public media, but the process itself is not transparent, it is even a violation of the law. Today, it was also mentioned that there is a need for subscription funds and another 2 billion for public television, which will be transferred to Mr Kurski's actions, which does not implement what should be the main principle in the case of the President's implementation of public television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the public service mission of radio and television is clear: radiophony and television carry out a public mission by offering, on the basis of the principles laid down in the Act, to the public and to the various parts of it, diverse programmes and services in the field of information, publicity, culture, entertainment, independence and innovation, high quality and integrity of communication. That is my question: Why public television just for public money, among others. from the subscription, does not show what is, e.g. what's going to happen now, i.e. The Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, but information about the Three Kings events goes on radio and television without a problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u518	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mrs Paulina Matysiak from Parliamentary Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the increase in public television funding... This is outrageous in itself, given how you cut costs where you go: health, education, public sector salaries, and at the last minute you want to remove a record limiting the number of members of the company's board of directors so that you can shape it freely, which is really to expand the composition, because that's why you remove this limitation. Therefore, I have a question: Is there any rational reason and any reason to include these truly outrageous entries made at the last minute by a Member who can't even justify the amendment he has tabled? I am referring to this amendment concerning the Act on Radio and Television, which is proceded at night, in a completely scandalous manner. And is there really a rational reason besides opening the door to wider access to public jamboards for extra board members? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u520	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's the government's fourth financial aid to the PiS TV, to the government's propaganda tube. Ladies and gentlemen, in mid-2017 it was PLN 800 million, in 2018 - PLN 980 million, in 2019 - PLN 1.26 billion. Now the PiS government transfers almost PLN 2 billion for television, calling it: public. Of course budget support is used by public media in other countries, but there are not such a hideous propaganda tube of one party with a language of hatred. For nearly 2 billion you can finance increases for teachers of several hundred PLN per month for everyone, finance increases for doctors resident by more than 1000 PLN per month. The NFZ spends about PLN 1.5 billion per year on oncology treatment (The Bell). Ladies and gentlemen, you are transferring this money to the TVP to sting Poles on the other Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u522	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Minister Paweł Lewandowski for an answer. What's to say? If the Minister doesn't want to talk long, you'll be praised by the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to remind you that this is a parliamentary project, not a government project, so I can only say that I thank Members very much for taking this very important initiative to support public media, which is public television, Polish Radio and regional radio stations of Polish Radio, because contrary to what has been said here, the money that will be provided under this aid is money for all public media, and not just for television. That's one thing. Secondly, actually television is public just like that. because it is financed by public money and carries out a public mission. And that's the basis for the media. With what public? PiS-owska. Therefore, this is the only way at this point to fund and support this medium to carry out its mission. And at the same time, I wanted to draw your attention because there are many different allegations here that the National Radio and Television Council is responsible for the implementation of the public service mission. The National Radio and Television Council publishes reports on the implementation of the public service mission every once in a while, providing information at least once a year. There is also a special meeting of the cultural committee at which we listen to this report, and this is the perfect time to ask different questions. You are also kept informed, among others. with the reports of the National Council, as this mission is being carried out, so if you are asking a question or saying that something is not being done, it is very easy to check, because that is what the relevant indicators are for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u524	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u525	In 2017, public media received PLN 980 million from the state budget, in 2018 it was already PLN 1200 million. This year Jacek Kurski will receive PLN 1950 million. The cost is rising because it's getting harder to stick stupid things in people's heads. It is necessary to distract Poles and Poles from food prices, which have never been so expensive. TVP fights. It is on the front line and is bravely shaping the alternative reality. Now let's see what TVP has been spending public money on so far - that is, ours. I said this at first reading: - to compare on TVP Info Greta Thunberg to Stalin and Hitler; - at the invitation of President Kaczyński for breakfast television, where he melted over Mrs Przyłębska as his social discovery; - for a sidewalk music concert, during which the singer sang to a teenage girl, quote: "You know how to spin your ass, you move nicely. You have just become an object of desire; this is, my dear country, classic child sexuality, the same thing that TVP warns so much about; - for a film to be called a paradocument, entitled: Invasion - this hideous hat on LGBT TVP1 showed in the culmination of the last campaign; just to remind you that its theme was to scare gay people. The materials broadcast by TVP were, are and for a while will unfortunately be part of the party policy. TVP, government television, is the Ministry of Propaganda, which operates in the service of the party. To put it simply, the president of the PiS appoints the enemy, TVP scares him or respects his credibility. This was the case with protesting resident doctors, and so was the case with protesters in the Sejm. This was the case with Paul Adamowicz. TVP showed him as a fraud, as a politician fighting against Polishness and promoting Nazism and communism. Public television also accused him of bringing an ecological disaster to Gdansk. According to the Newton Media report for the City Office in Gdańsk TVP in 2018, she dealt with Adamowicz 1773 times, on average almost five times a day. Most of the materials were negative. Today, cameras and all the power of TVP are directed at the Marshal of the Senate - Tomasz Grodzki. There is a crusade of slander against Professor Grodzko. Still warm are the red stripes of the TVP Info with an alleged bribe of PLN 400, which in 1994 was to be accepted by Grodzki. And this is where the problem arises, because in 1994 there was no such thing as 400 PLN - in 1994 we all traded millions. One egg cost $3,000. zł. The famous 400 PLN was then worth 4 gr. Looks like someone missed something in the fake news planning. Still, TVP was warming up this news like crazy. And among others. That's what our money goes for. Ladies and gentlemen, propaganda is very expensive. And the Prime Minister, the President and Mr Kurski know that. Hence the millions on TVP. TVP is an important part of this machine to help you maintain power. She noticed this in her post-election report of the OSCE. It simply states that Polish public media They openly favor power. One president sits on Nowogrodzka, the other in Babel tower on Woronicz and so cooperates. Shoulder to shoulder. TVP is an armed arm of the PiS. Mr Kaczyński and Mr Kurski have made public television an agency. An extremely expensive PR agency for PiS. According to the maxim of Kurski's president, who says that it sucks, but we are going because the dark people will buy it, they have made public television an instrument for fooling Poles and Poles. They've made public television a place where any politician of the PiS can come. He can come in, offend whom he wants, and say what he wants, and instead of opposing the host, he'll hear another question from the established list. And if that politician doesn't come and spit on someone in person, then one phone call from the president will be enough and TVP will do it for him. To the glory of the party and unfortunately for our money.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u526	In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. That's what I said. You interrupted me because you wanted to help me, but it turned out I was on my own. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Any of you ladies and gentlemen, other than two messengers, want to make a statement? If not, I close the list of Members. I invite Mrs Wanda Nowicka to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u527	Dear Marshal, I would like to ask the High House to be interested in the case described in the open letter, which 72 judges of the Gliwice district on 18 September Ub. sent to the Minister of Justice and also to the President of the District Court in Gliwice. In the letter of the Judges pursuant to Article. 130 § 1 of the Law on the System of General Courts demand a break in the performance of the duties of Judge Arkadiusz Cichocki, one of the suspects of participation in the so-called. a hater affair in the Ministry of Justice. They also object to the adjournment of the meeting of the district court judges on which they wanted to make this request. As a result of the disclosure of the so-called. Troll farms in the Ministry of Justice Judge Arkadiusz Cichocki was accused by the media that in the summer of 2018 he worked closely with heiress Emilia and provided her with materials to discredit judges criticising the PiS judicial reforms. He was also supposed to transfer money to her account. Following the disclosure of the Gliwice case, the judges asked the President of the Gliwice District Court for an urgent meeting on the case and for clarification as to whether Judge Cichocki had taken part in the activities of the Kasta Watch group and slandered his colleagues. The President did not agree to this, which the judges treated as a limitation of the role of the judiciary. In this situation, they decided to write an open letter addressed both to the President of the District Court in Gliwice and to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. He was signed by 72 judges from the district. I quote a passage from the letter: We ask the Minister of Justice and the President of the District Court in Gliwice to order a break in the duties of the Judge of the District Court of Arkadiusz Cichocki. We also demand that all measures be taken without delay to clarify the public area's information concerning the judges of our district about possible violations of law and behaviour that undermine both the broad sense of justice and the personal interests of individuals. It is also stated in an open letter that the judges of the District Court in Gliwice express an outrage at the recent events which resulted in resignations and references in the Ministry of Justice, the National Courts Council and courts. Gliwice judges wrote: In connection with the alleged participation in these events of persons acting in the Ministry of Justice or associated with them, who are judges at the same time, we demand that the suggestion of public opinion be stopped as a result of a conflict between judges. At the same time, we oppose bringing these events down to moral issues, which marginalizes and trivializes the essence of the problem. At the same time, judges demand checks on the correctness of the protection of their personal data. It turned out that the participants of the hater affair had access to them. This last topic will be the subject of a separate question which I will issue in the coming days to the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. In conclusion, I ask the High House to take an interest in this matter. I hope that the Minister of Justice will respond to this very important letter of Gliwice judges, because the case of the heiter affair in the Ministry of Justice and its consequences not only concern the judicial environment in Gliwice, but also the rule of law and the quality of public authority in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u528	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Coalition to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u529	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to refer to the two laws that we are working on today in the Seym, mostly at night, as you can see, is hour. 1 a.m. - to the Act amending the Act on subscription fees and to the Budget Act, the most important law in the year. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS, Law and Justice, the government gives us creative accounting in the budget, for example. The grant for public media, public TV, i.e. actually TVPiS, is to be in the form of securities, not as a budget item. This will make the deficit lower. Let me remind you that this is the zero deficit that the current government is so proud of. It's just that it's manipulative. - so as not to call it a fraud - because all these costs move to other associations or companies and so on. the absence of a deficit is artificially created by transferring the financing of part of the expenditure beyond the budget. Despite the balanced budget, there will be 1.2% the public finance sector deficit. That is about PLN 30 billion of deficit - so real in 2020 there is no money in the budget, not zero zlotys, as the propaganda of the PiS says. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no money in this budget for such an important program, which the current government boasts about - but somehow nothing comes out of it, still a complete failure - for the program Where do you want to finance this? Because maybe you're going to transfer these costs to developers, like you're going to transfer the costs of other different ideas to local governments or other entities? Maybe also as part of the program, the apartment+s will build the apartments of developers, and you will just call them your apartments+ and repel success? In connection with this budget, I would like to remind you that we are also proceeding with the Act on subscription fees, where 1.95 billion, almost 2 billion, also in the form of securities, and not in the form of budget money so far, transfers the majority of the Seym, i.e. PiS-owska, to public media. Of course, we wouldn't mind supporting public media if it were really public media, not the media propaganda tube of one single party, and it's also on top of a party that makes hate and puts some Poles on top of each other. Ladies and gentlemen! This bypassing the budget extends the deficit of the public finance sector, but not the budget deficit. That is why Prime Minister Morawiecki is coming out and manipulating us all, and he says there is a zero deficit. For this almost PLN 2 billion, which transfers the majority of the Sejm to public media, you could finance increases for teachers of several hundred zlotys per month for everyone, you could finance increases for resident doctors and nurses - by more than 1,000. PLN per month for everyone, increase the minimum pension by 100 PLN each, build three modern hospitals with full equipment. Most importantly, NFZ spends about 1.5 billion PLN per year on cancer treatment. Ladies and gentlemen! As much as for oncology treatment of Poles, the current government wants to transfer to the propaganda tube of PiS, to public media. I also wanted to point out that it was also loud about the Polish National Foundation, where money is wasted, which could go to the budget to do as good there as Owsiak, because the budgets of the Polish National Foundation and the wonderful initiative of Owsiak, which he collects every year (Dawn), are comparable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u530	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u531	Statement on the 100th anniversary of John Paul's birth II. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 100 years ago, on 18 May 1920 Karol Wojtyla was born in Wadowice. Archbishop, metropolitan city of Cracow, Cardinal, elected Pope on 16 October 1978, beatified in 2011, canonized on 27 April 2014. The election of the metropolitan city of Cracow as Pope was a surprise for the whole world. It was all the more surprising that the new Pope came from a Slavic country which at that time belonged to the Soviet bloc. A priest, but also a poet, an actor, and a educator. Don't be afraid - the message of John Paul II echoes in the hearts to this day and to this day brings a smile on the faces of the faithful, but not only. During his 26-year ministry, John Paul II recorded himself as the most active pope in history, who made more than 100 foreign trips. He was even called Pope Pilgrim. John Paul II called for the cessation of violence in major conflicts in the world, such as the Gulf Wars, Lebanon and Bosnia. He was also opposed to the use of economic blockades as a means of pressure because he considered them to be repression against the innocent population. He spoke to the world on numerous trips, but also through encyclicals, showing the foundations of the Christian mission, problems of work and social justice. Definitely defending human life from conception to natural death. After graduating from high school, he and his father moved to Cracow, where he started polish studies at the Faculty of Philology at the Jagiellonian University. After the outbreak of World War II and the closure of the university by the Nazis, young Wojtyła worked as a worker in quarry and then in chemical plants near Krakow. During the occupation, Karol Wojtyła organized a underground Rapsodic Theatre in Krakow. He was his first actor and director. He studied philosophy at the Jagiellonian University's secret Faculty of Theology. After finishing his theological studies, he was ordained priestly. Later, for two years, he continued his philosophical studies in Rome. He was a lecturer at the Cracow seminary and at the Faculty of Philosophy of KUL. In July 1958, Pope Pius XII appointed him the title bishop - the auxiliary bishop of the archbishop. the archdiocese of Cracow Eugeniusz Baziak. At the age of 38, he became the youngest member of the Polish Episcopate. After the death of Archbishop. The metropolitan chapter has been chosen as a vicar of the capital archdiocese of Krakow. A year later, in December 1963, he was appointed by Pope Paul VI as an archbishop of the metropolitan city of Cracow, and in June 1967 he received the Cardinal's hat. On 16 October 1978 the 111-member conclave was chosen by the archbishop and the metropolitan city of Krakow, a 58-year-old cardinal. Charles Wojtyla for the Pope. He took the name John Paul II as a sign of a continuation interrupted by the sudden death of the pontificate of his predecessor John Paul I. Less than 3 years after the Pope's election, 13 May 1981, in St. In Rome, John Paul II was seriously injured in the assassination of his life. To this day, the background to this assassination has not been explained. John Paul II died on 2 April 2005. The next day, in a homily given during the memorial service of St. in St. Peter's cardinal. Angelo Sodano called our countryman the Great. He was beatified by Benedict XVI on 1 May 2011 and canonized by Pope Francis on 27 May 2014.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u532	Declaration on the safety of children and young people during the winter break in 2020 The upcoming winter break period is not only a time of rest from school duty for all students, but also the beginning of intensive police work, especially those of the traffic departments, who contribute with their presence to improving the safety of this holiday. This year's holidays begin first for students from Silesian, Podkarpackie, Lublin, Łódź and Pomorskie voivodships. As a result, the police began their action on a "Safe Holidays." Traffic police officers this year, as every year, will pay great attention to the control of buses and drivers taking students to winter holidays. The technical state of the buses and their equipment, the driver's authority and his sobriety will be checked. A list of technical inspection sites for buses and bus drivers transporting children and young people for rest has also been prepared. The police on their website in a special communication also announces that this list contains a list of points from the country, together with contact numbers, where detailed information on the possibility of carrying out ad hoc checks on buses and drivers will be available. Through my statement today, I would like to draw attention to the need to ensure proper preparation for the winter holiday, both from organizers, guardians of students and the police. Greater awareness and foresight are the guarantee of a successful and safe trip and return. I would also like to wish all the students a pleasant, safe and peaceful winter break and a rest and a full enjoyment of the winter's charm. I wish all the policemen, especially those in the traffic departments, that their honorary service during this period of increased traffic be safe and without concern for them and all travelers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-08-sejm-03-1.u533	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 9 January 2020 at the latest 9. And thank you very much for your cooperation, wishing you good dreams. I wish you today. Mr. Marshal of Peaceful Dreams. And so it will be, sir. Thank you. Your behaviour was wonderful, too, Mr. President. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 00 min 56]]
