ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, since legislators still need a moment in connection with the COVID-19 Act, with the agreement of the Senior Convention, we have changed the order, but only today. So in a moment we will proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on amending the law on the circles of rural hostess. The text of the Act is contained in print No 112 and the committee's report in print No 112 A. I'll have the rapporteur for the agricultural committee... I'm sorry, but... Yes? At first, it's... Oh, good, good. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The cards are glued together... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u2	Can I file a motion? Today is the 80th anniversary of the death of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Could we honor the Marshal's memory with a minute of silence?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u3	Certainly, yes, Mrs. Marshal. There will be a resolution, that is, a memory about the birth of a great Pole. You reported it to Senator Ujazdowski... In that case, if you make such a request, I suggest you rise and celebrate with a minute of silence... [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. While we're at it, death is accompanied by birth and vice versa... Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate of the previous term of office adopted a resolution establishing the year 2020 as St. John Paul's Year II... Get in the microphone. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, maybe I'll go to the podium after all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. I firmly believe that we should celebrate the outstanding Pole, who was a great promoter of human rights, respect for man, expressed what was most beautiful in Polish culture, was one of the people who contributed to Poland's independence, and certainly was a great witness of Christian hope. In the last term of office, we adopted a resolution to honor him. I think that the Senate should pay tribute to the man who influenced the fate of the world and Poland in a fundamental way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u5	Thank you very much, senator. We won't, I think, get up. I state from the Senate stand that the Senate remembers with honor and respect the 100th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Pole, Pope John Paul. II. We are adjourned. I would like to remind the senators in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 to sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that this is Senator Ryszard Śvilski, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and Senator Victor Durlak in Room 182. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals and speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. I would also like to point out that, on an ad hoc basis, temperature measurement will be introduced for those coming from the Sejm at the passage between the Sejm and the Senate. This is done in agreement with the Chief Sanitary Inspector. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. I would like to remind you that the meeting is held in a traditional manner and by means of distance communication. Your Senators taking part in the meeting in a remote manner, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras included in it, and that the States in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 are excluded from the application for remote participation in the meeting. Let me remind you that you can subscribe to the questions and to the voice through the chat in the app. This concerns the participating countries remotely. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. I would remind you that there is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I would also like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators using the remote participation application that starting a vote in the Webex system will result in the announcement. To take part in the vote, we click "OK" and then double-click the "Transmit" button or some "Submit" tablets after the vote: first in the voting window on the top right, then in response to the confirmation question when the relevant window pops up. I see it worked out. Please state the results of the vote. I state that 74 senators voted. [[Voting No 24]] All the buttons, i.e., the opposite, and I hold back, function properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Act amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives and consider it as item six of the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe and consider it as item seven of the agenda. I would add that, with regard to the law on the amendment of the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, a letter from the Ministry to put this item on the agenda at this meeting has been received. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There's no objection. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The text of the Act, I remind you, is contained in print No 112 and the report of the committee In print No 112 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to report on behalf of the committee. We had a meeting today. Thanks to your request, Minister Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak, who addressed your marshal, and Mr Marshal to me, we considered her today. I thank the marshal and the convention for their acceptance. This law is basically just updating, because it concerns a law that already works. The case concerns finance, mainly measures Also this year, in the amount of PLN 40 million, which can be mobilised directly by the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. They will be at the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, where the circles of rural housewives register. These measures will be implemented this year. Hence the request to do so as soon as possible and we do so. I will also say that the Legislative Office has proposed amendments, and there is one amendment that I have taken over, which is just saying that the words of the President of the Agency are being replaced by the word "agency," because it was considered that the institution should take over the money rather than the President. The jokes said it was best to give the president's account number, but that's humorous. This amendment was approved by the government, and the committee supported it. There was another amendment that you tabled to Senator Bober, which was not accepted by the committee. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I ask for this law to be adopted with the amendment adopted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and those in room 182, to Senator Victor Durlak. Mr. Senators, in turn, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Please do not follow the order of applications. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. You have a question for Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This first law on the circles of rural hostesses was very positively adopted by rural communities. And I'm glad there's an opportunity to increase funding here. But please tell me whether the 40 million you mentioned, which are written in this law, is that, so to speak, the optimal amount, whether this amount should not yet be increased, so that those tasks that are possible through this law, are even more fully or wider, even more widely implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator Jackowski, let me put it this way: we have many godly wishes. And it should certainly be said that more resources would be useful here. But we also have financial constraints. Well, this amount has been proposed by the government, and it is to be thanked that, in a time of crisis that we have today, at a time of pandemic, this amount is. It may not be enough sometimes, but the important thing is that we're on our way. If necessary, after all, after six months, or if the financial situation is good, we can ask to increase this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u11	I understand that Senator Jackowski is rewriting, but... yeah, he's checking in. But right now, Senator Rafał Ambrozik will take the floor and ask the question. Mr. Marshal, I asked on the Internet for the opportunity to ask a question, but to the Minister. Oh, to the minister, all right. What about Senator Swede? Also to the representative of the ministry or to the senator of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u12	Mr. Marshal, can you hear me? I'm here to see the Senator of the rapporteur. I didn't hear... Mr. Marshal, can you hear me now? Yes, please, just... Because I didn't hear... I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. I can hear you now, okay? Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask... This bill, as the previous speaker said, which asked a question, Senator Jackowski, is very positive in the rural environment. I know that in the records we now have the amount of 40 million that we are going to spend for 2020. I would like to ask the rapporteur what are the plans for the next years. Because I know that there are records in the bill that indicate that this amount is going to increase. How much? How is this going to develop in the next few years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u13	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u14	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, as I mentioned earlier, today it is difficult to say whether this is enough or whether more should be given. As I said before, everything depends on how many applications will be made. The Ministry therefore prepared this amount. But you don't talk about the next few years. Of course, there was a proposal to spread this over the coming years, but the amendment did not pass in the Sejm. And that's why it's only for this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would like to address the Senator of the rapporteur. You can remind us what are the rules or procedures in place when distributing these funds, how it looks from the technical point of view. Perhaps the senator would like to bring the matter closer to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u17	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u18	Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: this bill we're amending doesn't talk about details. Here we must refer to the mother's law, which actually says that we need to register with the restructuring agency, also speaks about financial resources, depending on the size of the wheel That's $3,000, $5,000... So that's where it's described in detail. If you need further explanations, we have a minister in the Chamber who can say exactly so, because she will be sending these funds to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u19	Thank you very much. Probably such questions will be, because the bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Funds and Regional Policy, who is represented by the Secretary of State, Anna Gembick, has been authorised to present the position of the Government. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u20	Thank you very much. With regard to the questions that have been raised, I will say that this amount is mainly due to forecasts that concern already functioning circles recorded in the register, as well as to those new ones that will want to register. We have data from previous years on the basis of which the estimated growth was estimated. This amount should be sufficient to transfer funds to around 11 000 600 wheels. Just to remind you that on April 29th this year we have registered 9,000 110 circles of country housewives. As far as the next years are concerned, we will analyse the results, we will analyse how many wheels use this support, how many new ones are registered. On this basis, we will eventually make decisions in the future. As far as the way the funds are transferred is concerned, it is all set out in the Regulation. As a general rule, any wheel registered in the National Register of Rural Houses may submit an application to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Depending on the number of wheels, they receive an amount respectively PLN 3, 4 or 5 thousand. Then, of course, they have to settle up with these measures. However, we have adopted such a simplified method of accounting. We can say that for the previous year 99% the rings that received the funding submitted the financial statements, the settlement of the financing. So, as you can see, there's no problem with that. And of course, let me remind you, there are also representatives in the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, who help the groups of rural hostess to submit these applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. If you don't mind, I'm not gonna read this formula because everyone's already mastered it. For your questions, I'm asking you first, Marshal Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you whether these applications to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture can also be submitted by groups of rural hostess who operate under the 1982 Act on Socio-Professional Organisations of Farmers. We know that such organisations were part of it before the November 2018 Act came into force. Can they also... I suspect so, but I'd like to ask. Do they also need to register with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? If the Minister has that information... Because, as I understand it, these 9,000 100 circles of country housewives are the ones registered with the restructuring agency. Right? Do there still exist? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u23	Thank you very much, Marshal. This is a very important question that has gone through several times. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u24	Thank you very much. Any group, whether acting in a formula or an informal group, if it meets the requirements set out in the Act, may register in the National Register of Rural Houses. What's more, I always stress it. The granting of financial assistance to all wheels is objective. This means that the agency does not make a decision according to its will, it simply takes place on the basis of the specific criteria that have been defined. If the request has been received and the criteria have been met, the aid shall be granted. So that the organisations mentioned above may also register in the National Register of KGW. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u25	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that Senator Rafał Ambrozik has come forward. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Ożóg, Senator Kwiatkowski, Senator Słoń, Senator Kleina and Mr Marshal Borusewicz prepare for the question. That's the order. Mr. Marshal, may I, or... Yes. Please, Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u26	I have a question. Senator Swed asked about the future, and I will ask about the past, about previous years. To what extent was the help given to the rural hostess's circles? This is such an important question that the answer will show how serious the United Right is about the problems of the Polish village. I would, of course, like to ask whether there were similar programmes in 2007 and whether any funds were transferred directly from the PO-PSL government to the rural hostess circles. This is the first case. And the second case concerns newly formed wheels. I understand that this activity in the countryside in connection with the measures that are being transferred has increased. Do you have statistics on how many new wheels have been created? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u27	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u28	This law entered into force in 2018, so it is difficult to talk about any earlier support that would have been granted in 2007 and 2015. There just wasn't that kind of support in those years. The new wheels of the country housewife is about... At this point, the breakdown is 50:50. That's 50%. these are the wheels that have already functioned before, with a long tradition, and which have decided to register in the National Register of KGW, and half of them are brand new wheels, created, you can say, on the wave of returning popularity of this formula of action. As regards the funds that were transferred in previous years, already under the Act in operation since 2018, it was over 16 million in 2018 and in 2019 over 29 million PLN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u29	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I understand that the maximum amount is PLN 5,000 200, which can... Please explain when it is granted and what this maximum amount may be allocated to. I mean, as I understand it, it's a broad-based statutory act. But to what extent? Do you want to go shopping in kind, for renovations? It is about the specification and how you then account for these measures in your reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u31	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u32	Thank you. The amount of PLN 5 000, i.e. the maximum amount, can be obtained by the wheel if it has more than 75 people. As far as the extent to which the wheels can allocate funds is concerned, as the senator said, the limitation here is the statutory activity. And in fact there are a lot of activities in this statutory activity, because on the one hand it can be the purchase of equipment, it can be some minor renovations, and on the other hand it can be various types of training, trips, purchase of costumes. We've been trying to give as much freedom as possible here. We have assumed that the ladies of the country housewives' circles know best what they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question you ask is Senator Stanisław Ożog.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have such a technical question: what will happen in the case of the village housewives' circle, which since 1 January lost the status of the village because it obtained city rights? Here's another thing. Parts of cities, even those big, voivodship, I mean e.g. Rzeszów is rural in nature. Is it possible for women's organization to get that money organised there in the form of an association? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u36	In connection with similar voices, there has already been an amendment of the law, on the basis of which we have allowed, for example, to be adopted last year. the possibility of creating circles of rural hostels in cities of up to 5 000 inhabitants. Of course, such voices still appear: what about cities? Our plan is to carry out an evaluation of the existing functioning of the law this year, and then we will propose further changes. I must say that the scale of this is rather small, although we listen to the voices of all the communities who want to work for the countryside, they want to work for rural culture. After the evaluation, we will propose further solutions In line with the results we will get. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u37	Thank you, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Circles of country housewives... Of course, no one in this room needs to be convinced of the importance and importance of these organizations for the life of the rural community, as well as smaller towns. But I have two questions. The Minister spoke of the increase in the number of newly registered wheels. Would it not therefore be justified, Madam Minister, to include a rule which would, however, give some perspective to budgetary stability in terms of the financial expenditure on the functioning of the wheels in the coming years? And second question. As we have a new procedure, do you have an analysis of how many of those wheels that have already operated have registered in accordance with this new procedure and how much longer does it function? According to pre-existing rules? And maybe from the point of view of some kind of support, if there are such wheels functioning not on the basis of the new regulations, can we say of some worse formal treatment of them, because of the fact that the adopted financial regulations are, of course, dedicated to the wheels registered in accordance with the new procedures?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u39	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u40	Thank you very much. As far as the next years are concerned, I'm going to say that we're going to analyze the forecasts that will come after this year, once the funds have been cleared. And then we can figure out what it's gonna look like in the future. Of course, we are also conducting information activities to encourage the circles to use this form, because, frankly, unfortunately, there have been a lot of misinformation and a lot of contradictions. One of those voices I heard, which is completely untrue, was, for example. the fact that the wheels will allegedly have to pay something to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Well, that's absolutely not true. But unfortunately, because of such disinformation led by certain organizations, some of the wheels simply did not benefit from this form yet. We want to disband these myths, we want to pass on the correct information. And once again, there's no sharing in any way. Any group which meets the conditions set out in the Act may register. It's kind of like organizations that work, for example. In the form of an association, they said they were shared because they had a different legal form than foundations. Well, if a group chooses a specific legal form of action, then specific rights and obligations are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u41	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Elephant. It's not working... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u42	Oh, now it's working. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns the quota system for the distribution of money to the hostel's circles. Does it not seem to you that it should be more proportionate, really corresponding to the size of the various rural hostels' wheels, of course after the minimum amount has been fixed? This would increase funding from it on the basis of the actual number of members of such a circle. The second question also concerns financial issues: what is happening And if that's the kind of mechanism you're planning to put in place. What happens when, after an application has been submitted and after receiving a specific amount, the housewives are suddenly gaining popularity and are joined by many new members? The subsidy received by the wheel is then, you know, insufficient to meet the needs, and this happens e.g. in some season, when the activity of a given wheel is increasing significantly. Would there be a chance that this could be completed within a year by applying for further measures if the village housewives had grown significantly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u43	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u44	Thank you very much. With regard to this matching of resources to the number of wheels, these are simply criteria that we have also defined on the basis of the existing functioning. Of course, our goal is for rural hostels to bring together as many as possible groups of people from a given village or those who want to work for a given region, hence the criteria are defined in such a way. I will also add that the wheels that are already registered... it is not that they only receive funds when registering, they also receive funds in subsequent years of action, they may ask for them. E.g. The wheels which registered in 2018 and since then the number of their members has increased, submit an application to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture with such an update, later, in the following year, if this number has actually exceeded the next thresholds, they may already apply for these larger amounts, up to PLN 5 000. And I would also like to point out that it is not the money that attracts these people to activities in the circles of rural hostesses, because here it is about showing that it is possible to do something precisely in rural areas, that there are groups of people, there are local leaders who attract other people, they show that sometimes even with small inputs you can do very, very much for your village, for your municipality, for your region. So I would like to break up with such a belief that the circles of the country housewives are formed only because of the money, because it is not true. The law adopted in 2018 also introduced a great deal of facilitation, even in relation to issues of tax exemptions or the possibility of obtaining legal personality. Because so far, unfortunately, the rural housewives have had to look for other legal forms. I'm sure it'll have to sound like it. And it's not like if all of a sudden this money comes out, then the wheel automatically becomes some very popular. It is simply a continuous work at the foundation and such a real, you can say, positive activity in the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u45	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The amount to be received by rural housewives is a maximum of PLN 5 000. Of course, it's a good thing it's 5,000 zlotys, but it's not some kind of shocking amount. I mean, these village housewives' wheels, they've been... Because you said there wasn't a law before, suggesting that the rural housewives hadn't received any funds before. Of course, they were financed by local governments, also by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, money for various kinds of projects was passed on, probably always too small... But my question... So you can't say there's an extraordinary revolution going on here right now. And my question is, is there even a law that says that the rural housewives' circles will receive this money for their purposes, provided that they register with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Is something like this even necessary? Wouldn't it be better for the agency to simply launch a funding programme for rural hostel circles, regardless of their status, organisational form or other issues? Well, that would just be the most sensible thing to say. Besides, there are not many rural hostels that count 75 members. I think so, and I know a lot of them. Most wheels I think so, although I don't know the statistics, these are wheels that count about 30 people, or maybe even less. It depends on the size of the village. So I think we should just create... Wouldn't it be better if we created such simple structures? There is no need for further legislation, no need for such formulas, just such a simple way of financing. Well, we have such an ambition to settle every case by law, and then there are situations that we have to change these laws every now and then. I think the less regulation like that, the better. Haven't you considered this in such a way as not simply to create new laws, but to mobilise funds through various kinds of programmes for these various organisations, which are the circles of rural hostess? 'Cause today, they're being formed for the rural housewives' wheels, like two standards: one wheel is registered with the agency, the other wheel is not registered. I don't understand the need to introduce it at all, and I don't think the members of the wheels understand it much either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u47	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u48	Mr. Senator, to be honest, what you're saying is completely incomprehensible to me. You say it wasn't necessary, and I have exactly the opposite information from the village hostels' circles. Well, in some regions, the rural hostess circles have died, and thanks to the adoption of this law, thanks to the giving to the houses of rural independence, the right personality, they have become very dynamic. Let me remind you that earlier the wheels were unfortunately not independent. Very often, if they were given money, then they had to consult with someone about what to spend it on. And now they can spend it on what they want, of course, as part of their statutory activities. Of course, local governments also gave them some resources. I agree on that. And they still pass them on, which is very glorious, but unfortunately very often it was not objective. I can give many examples myself from my region, where the aid for the circles of rural hosts provided by local governments was sometimes dependent on the sympathy of the uncle or the old-timer. This isn't right. What we have introduced is, above all, an objective mechanism for obtaining these funds. The wheel submits an application and if it meets the formal requirements, it receives funding. It does not depend on whether the governor or the elderly is on the way with the persons concerned, with a given circle of country hostesses. I think that should sound very clear. Surely what can be seen in recent years is the renaissance of the circles of rural housewives, so such arguments that this law does not make sense and it would be best to leave it as it was before, to leave these ladies and gentlemen to the warlord or the old-fashioned, in my opinion they are wrong. I am very pleased that this law has been adopted because a lot of new wheels have been created, which are now very active for their communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u49	Thank you, Minister. I have to ask. Now me, it's my turn. But I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I signed you up. Good. Minister, we are dealing with the situation that there are registration wheels that have registered with the agency, and there are non-registration wheels that operate according to the 1962 Act. As far as I know, this 2018 law has not changed enough for these unregistered wheels to be treated in the same way as the registered ones. I will no longer ask why the registration principle was introduced and this division into registration and non-registration wheels. But tell me one thing. These registered wheels are just over 9,000 100. And the unregistered ones. Unregistered according to the 2018 Act, how much is there? And tell me how many of these groups are members. Well, 70 is a pretty large number, sometimes 70 people can be 1/3 of the inhabitants of a given village. Please tell me what it looks like with regard to the number of members in this one group, operating according to the 1962 Act and in the latter, acting according to the 2018 Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u50	I will repeat once again: any group that meets the requirements has the will to register can register in the National Register of Rural Houses. There is no prohibition that a group may not register in that register. Here we have a clear, transparent and objective register. Besides, when it comes to this data... At this point, according to the data at the end of April, there are actually more than 9 thousand wheels of rural housewives, of which about half of the wheels are newly registered. Mr. Marshal here mentioned the wheels that operate under the Agricultural Wheels Act. Agricultural circles, according to the information we have, do not keep any specific, transparent register on which to estimate the number of wheels operating under this law. The same is true when it comes to the number of people. As for the number of people concentrated in the circles of rural hostesses, which are registered in the National Register of KGW, this is about 250 thousand people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u51	Thank you very much. I asked because I wanted to compare these two groups, but, as I understand it, you only deal with these registered groups, so you can't answer my question. Mr. Senator... No, Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that the government of PO and PSL did not support any initiatives in the circles of rural hostess in 2008. I would like to ask you, referring to Mr Ambrozik's question, to prepare reliable information on what assistance or what support this government has had in these years. I understand you didn't have time to get to know what the previous governments were doing for the country housewives' circles, but I hope you can do your homework now. I'm asking for such written information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u53	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u54	Thank you very much. First of all, I said that in those years there was no law on the circles of rural hostess, because it was adopted in 2018. So don't confuse what has been said here. On this basis, the aid was not paid because in those years the law simply did not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u55	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Minister, according to the information you gave, is 99%. The housewife's wheels settled and 1% No. My question: was there any specific reason that decided that this was 1% Didn't those associations settle? Can they settle at a later date? If so, will they be able to apply for a new recruitment, for new financing of their activities? Next question: isn't your resort planning to increase these measures? I ask because if we count it, and there are more than 9,000 rings of housewives into 40 million zlotys, it comes out above 4,000 zlotys per wheel, and we are talking about 5,000 zlotys, so if all the wheels submitted applications, it probably wouldn't be enough. My next question: is the resort planning to increase this amount in the future, e.g. to 6,000 or to 7,000 PLN? There is no doubt that these resources for their activities are very much needed, it simply helps them very much. And you can see that there are new circles of country housewives. This shows, above all, their beautiful tradition, their rich culture of individual regions, and they sustain it. This is actually very cool. That is why it is my question whether the Ministry is planning to increase this funding for the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u57	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u58	Thank you very much. In terms of increasing resources or other means, I would say that the purpose of the law was also to enable the groups of rural hostess to take part in other competitions. Because those measures are in fact measures that are intended to help the core activity related to the operation, but in addition, the EtnoPolska programme was also created, under which the rural hostel's wheels can obtain funding worth more than PLN 100 thousand. These are already concrete measures that the wheels can use to buy costumes or to organise various kinds of events, or to promote local culture. As I said, the point of the bill is not just to pass on these funds, it is at the heart of the law that the circles of the country's hostess be given legal personality, and so on. There are different types of additional possibilities. Circles of housewives can also take part in competitions such as.Culture Interventions in competitions organised by the National Institute of Freedom under the Civil Organisation Development Programme. We are trying to ensure that the rules of each programme include the possibility that the rural hostel groups can benefit from these programmes. We know that on the scale of such a very dynamic wheel, this support is enough for basic needs, and that was the assumption. That is why we enabled the wheels to raise funds precisely from grants, competitions and EU grants, last year there was a competition in which the rural housekeepers could also receive these grants. When it comes to those wheels that don't account for themselves, I'm going to say that this is actually a very small percentage. It's sometimes... This is usually a question of the fact that expenditure was not earmarked for statutory purposes, and that sometimes there are problems with deadlines related to when these funds were spent. These are the main needs and main problems that arise. But let me say again: this is a really small percentage of all wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u59	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for such a clear answer to my question, but not just my question, i.e. that the organisations that were established before November 2018 can benefit from this funding. I think that's all there is to it. I just want to remind you of what the Minister said, i.e. that those organisations which operated under this 1982 law on socio-professional farmers' organisations... The rural hostels' circles functioned as separate organizational units of agricultural circles and had no legal personality, so they could not submit their own applications properly to any programme. The benefit of this law in 2018 is precisely that by registering with an agricultural restructuring agency, and such an agency is located in every district, in the capital of each county, the rural hostel's circles can receive legal personality, and having legal personality, they can benefit from different other programmes. And that's exactly what I wanted to ask you about, but the minister has already answered that. These are e.g. These programs of the National Centre of Culture, very good. And indeed, when I looked at the list of beneficiaries, because recently these letters appeared, there are many circles of rural hostels. There are other organizations, such as Orlen Foundations or other large foundations, which also announce such competitions. But I'm gonna ask you if you're organizing a training course, or if you're gonna provide for rural hostess circles for this kind of training. Or maybe the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture So that ladies can just acquire the ability to write applications, because it's not easy at all, and you want it very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u61	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u62	Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. I haven't mentioned yet another program that rural housewives can use. It's starting today, I'm guessing. This is the National Freedom Institute program. There you can obtain 40 or 50 thousand PLN for activities according to the priority in which you run. These are aid measures related to the pandemic of Coronavirus. So, of course, the rural hostel circles are also the ones who are entitled to benefit from these measures. I'll just mention other programs of the National Freedom Institute. That's for example. an institutional reinforcement programme. The funds are up to PLN 700,000 for one organization. This can be done, for example. for the renovation of the premises, for the purchase of equipment, for non-design activities, i.e. these are in fact completely different grants than those related to the competition and the implementation of the project. It is also the resources that can be obtained for the construction of iron capital, for the development of substantive activities. All this information can, of course, be found on the website of the National Institute of Freedom. But the wheels can also run in various types of competitions that are organized by other foundations. Sometimes these are foundations, just as the senator mentioned, operating with companies of the State Treasury, e.g. It is a competition of my place on Earth. But there are also many competitions that are organized by foundations operating in various kinds of financial institutions, with large companies, and the wheels can also run in them, according to the theme of a given competition, of course. Last year we managed to start a little training on just those programmes that are available. This year too, to be honest, we planned such meetings throughout Poland. I don't know if the current situation will be possible. Depending on what's going on... If we consider that this is not possible this year, we would simply like to prepare webinars, trainings, recordings in which experts from individual programmes will talk about this, for example. prepare a good proposal, which should be included in it and thus reach the audience. Well, I very much regret it, because we really planned a whole series of meetings throughout Poland, which would also allow for e.g. accounting training, application writing training, took into account information issues concerning the sources of funding. I hope that we will be able to deal with the pandemic of Coronavirus and that we will be able to carry out this work. If not, we will have to adopt the formula of running this online.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u63	Thank you. Senator Antoni the Man. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Man. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Man doesn't report... I'm coming in! Oh, that's good. [[Joy in the Chamber]] As far as I'm concerned, I'm the only one the IT guys need to plug in, Mr. Marshal. Oh, good. Is the senator connected yet? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u64	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thanks to the IT guys for plugging in. I have a question for the Minister. Because today the Minister attended the committee meeting and knows very well that it is not as you say, smooth, beautiful and everyone can get it. This is because these divisions exist. And here are at least two groups, I would have distinguished two groups, so to speak, retarded. One is the one that Senator Bober was talking about today, the circles of rural hostesses that operate under the Act on Social and Occupational Farmers' Organisations, which has already been mentioned many times. They're mentally... Senator Bober explained that very well today at the committee meeting. Even though I didn't attend the meeting, and I was just watching it on the Internet, I have to tell you that I'm a little surprised by your answer, because it doesn't look like you're trying to show everyone here that they can, but we just need to register. For some reasons, these traditional circles of housewives do not want to register and this was explained. In order not to take too much time, I will skip the whole argument because it was very well presented by Senator Bober. Senator Bober said that those circles of rural hostels which are omitted from that law are 10,000, while in the Act of 9 November 2018 there are 9,5 thousand, i.e. more than half of those traditionally rural and small-town hostels' circles are omitted. But there is a whole group of rural hostels who operate in cities with more than 5 000 inhabitants and the 2018 law excludes these parks of rural hostess. They operate on the outskirts of big cities, e.g. In Łódź there are 16 such groups of country hostels. We have submitted a bill of this kind, but this project, probably because there is a presidential election campaign, etc., will not be adopted now, will not be subject to the Sejm's deliberations, because it would probably disrupt the good image of President Duda or it would have to be adopted so that Duda would not lose his support in agricultural environments. So that I would like you to really come to this, not just as the PiS senators say, and tell the Minister that it looks so beautiful, because there is a whole group, at least two large groups of rural hostels who are omitted, taken outside the brackets of this law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u65	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u66	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way: it is difficult for me here to refer to the question that there are some mentality considerations that do not allow wheels to register. We don't regulate mentality by law. By law we can regulate certain formal considerations and we have done so. And here I will repeat once again: we have objective criteria for registration, objective criteria for payment of funds. If a group wants to register, it can do so. There is no ban here that a group cannot register. If it meets the formal requirements, it wants to register, just go to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. If registration causes problems, there are plenipotentiaries there, who are constantly providing assistance to these groups of housewives. I think that I would invite your senator first of all to visit the circles of the country housewives not only on the occasion of some big celebrations, but to see how the law has translated into how they can act every day. Once again, the fact that they have obtained legal personality is that they have independence, that they no longer have someone to tell them what to spend the money on, they can decide for themselves, no one to tell them... Here I might refer to an example, because the senator is from my district, so maybe he's heard about these situations, for example. The uncle was giving money to the wheel, just saying: you have to spend it in this store because this store is run by a friend of mine. Well, I'm sorry, but this isn't right. We've introduced objective criteria. No one at the agency says you're gonna spend it on whether or not you're gonna spend it in this store. It's just that the wheels get their money and spend it on statutory activities. This allows them to organize events of various kinds, buy equipment for themselves, or carry out some minor renovations. It's their free choice. Women in the country don't really need to be told what to spend their money on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u67	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the content of the following article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 in connection with the entry into force of the Act. Well, in this article, we read that near the rural hostess in 2020 she could receive financial aid from the state budget, etc., etc. The question is whether it can receive financial assistance for the statutory actions referred to in Article. 2 (2) 3, but the ones that were carried out by the date of entry into force of the Act? Well, it's been almost five months. Calm me down, or give me clear guidelines. as to how such a proposal should be treated if a given rural hostel wants to receive funding for something that has already been implemented or is in the process of being implemented. Because according to the article. 2 The Act enters into force Of course, I am referring to this novel on the day following the day of the announcement. Wouldn't it be worth adding here with effect from 1 January 2020? Then we'd have a clear legal situation. It would be known that all actions from 2020 could receive this grant. Oh, yeah, well... Maybe the minister can explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u69	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u70	Thank you very much. As I said, the procedure is that the application is submitted to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and then funding is granted, which must be spent and settled over the given period. We do not foresee such a solution to finance these actions in some way backwards. To be honest with you, this proposal is quite incomprehensible to me, because in any of these kinds of programs that are addressed to non-governmental organisations. The rural hostels' circles are also non-governmental organisations There is no mechanism to cover expenditure that has been made before. Besides, I think that the rural hostel groups will know very well what these funds will be used for in the second half of the year when they receive a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u71	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'll ask you an additional question. There you go, Mr. Senator. If I wanted to ask, I couldn't, and Senator Czerwiński is privileged. I had to wait in line. Yeah, okay. Mr. Senator... But I'm not against it. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u72	Yeah, I'm privileged. Minister, the additional question is this. Isn't that the way to think about it... well, after these five months, we're gonna relieve the village housewives' circles. If the purpose of the bill is to help them, then why do we keep them for five months without an IV and then give them big money at once? Well, it's as big as it is, but it's money. I think that would be more in line with the purpose of this bill, with the idea of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u73	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u74	It is not true that during this time the rural hostess's circles had no opportunity to raise any funds. In the first quarter of this year, and even at the end of last year, there were many grant competitions, such as those competitions that I mentioned, i.e. EtnoPoland, the Culture of the Initiatives and the Civil Initiatives Fund. Wheels are entitled to obtain funds from such sources. Wheels can also obtain sponsors, they can obtain funds from companies, they can obtain funds from local governments. In addition, of course, they received the funds we are talking about in the previous year and in 2018. So it's not like they're suddenly out of resources. I will say again that this law introduced legal personality for the groups of housewives just so that they could diversify the sources of resources. I myself come from NGOs, and I know very well how it works, and I know very well how important it is to diversify these sources. And I have to say that the wheels aren't based in their business, they're based on the government resources they're receiving. This activity is increasingly based on various types of grants, various types of grants, which in fact It's not missing now. In particular, I am referring to the EtnoPolish programme, which is actually tailored to the circles of rural hostesses, because it focuses on local and regional activities. So there are a lot of possibilities. And I'm going to say again that the rural housewives' wheels don't work just to get that money. They function because they want to do something good for their towns and their regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u76	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, this is some naive belief that 2,000 or maybe 5,000 zlotys will protect the circles of the country's hostess from any pathology that occurs in some community, one or another. If there are pathological situations, there is no chance that this amount will save these very circles of country housewives from something like this. It's just that there are probably some bad situations in one or another community, rather exceptions than constant practice. But I'd like to ask you about one thing that always surprises me in this matter. Well, you think that the statutory regulations will lead to the fact that some rural housewives' circles will work better or worse. I think that's another naivety again. Rather, we should avoid statutory regulation wherever things can be dealt with in a simple way. If there is any financial means to give these rural circles, whether or not they are registered. At the old man's... That's the way it's supposed to be. If the wheel does not have the status of an organization, legal personality, it is recorded, it should be in the old man and then it is less permanent, and then it is transformed into a full, normal organization, with legal personality. Why create more registers? Why say that the condition of receiving... Probably most of them will be those wheels that get 2,000 zlotys each. Why say if you register, you'll get the money? That's even... It's basically creating a client system. Why? If there's resources... I'm glad they're here. Here is PLN 2.5 thousand, from the communes there are 3 thousand, 1 thousand or 500 PLN. From various sources you can finance the hostess's wheels. But to condition it so that it's the neighborhood of the country housewives that has to be registered in this system to get support, that's ridiculous. I was last week, Sunday, i.e. a week ago, at a meeting of the rosary circle in the village of Skrzeszewo in the district of Kartuski in the municipality of Sierakowice. It's a rosary wheel, ladies in this rosary wheel meet Their mothers, grandmothers and great-grandmothers had met before. It's been 100 years. They don't register anywhere, and they function de facto like a village housewife. They don't need any records to do good things. I'm also talking about it because my great-grandmother used to wear it around the rosary. And they meet once a month on Sunday. Do they need a register at the Agricultural Restructuring and Modernization Agency to do something good? What's with the complicated records? Do we want to help? Let's give the money and that's it. There's a thought that the central registers will get local activity. Naive faith. The fewer these central registers, the better it is for NGOs, associations and communities of all kinds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I allowed a longer question because you were protesting. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u78	Thank you very much. No one here says that these measures will allow them to become independent, because already on the basis of the entry in the register, the circles gain independence and legal personality. And I have to tell the senator that for example. from those wheels that I'm in contact with, which I've been working with all the time, and it's really a very large number of wheels... They are very pleased that they can now raise funds not only from government ones, because, as I said, these are basic measures, but they can also obtain funds, for example. from various programmes, from grants, from EU grants. They have this legal personality, which means there must be a register, there must be some basis for this legal personality to be. Well, that's how our legal system works. And let me repeat: we have objective criteria. Yeah, well, I'd really like it if local government officials were to approach every wheel objectively. Unfortunately, it's not. I myself know a lot of such examples. And it's really so much that. Starosta says the wheels won't be invited to the harvest if they register. Everyone who functions, who knows life in the country, knows that harvest is one of the most important holidays. And suddenly someone tells them that if they decide to register, they won't be invited because the old man doesn't support the fact that there's a register. This is unacceptable to me. Once again, there are objective criteria here. And I think this is one of the greatest values of this change, which means that these things will no longer depend on whether or not someone, or a governor, likes or dislikes someone. The application shall simply be submitted and, if the conditions are met, support shall be granted. It seems to me that we really should strive to ensure that these, clear and transparent criteria function, so that support is not dependent on whether or not someone likes the activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome... Would the senator like to ask you a question or not? No, I know everything. Thank you, then. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has absolutely convinced me that objective criteria are the most important here. So I'm going to ask you here about the question of financing Senator Golba also asked. Aren't you concerned about the construction of this bill? The Act provides that aid will be granted only in 2020, until the financial resources set out in the relevant article are exhausted, in practice this is PLN 40 million. A corrective mechanism was also adopted which assumes that at some point, at the time of the exhaustion, the President of the Agency announces the cessation of applications for financial assistance. Let us note: the Minister himself says that we have a significant number of wheels that have not yet registered. And the Minister herself says that these funds are really very stable funding, organisations can complement them with additional grants, applications in other projects and programmes, but in their case you have to make your own contribution. Wouldn't it be a far more peaceful situation from your point of view if we set spending limits in the following years, also taking the absolutely natural assumption that another number of rural hostels' wheels, which have not yet registered under this law, will register, for example, due to the fact that there is an additional source of funding for the organisation? Hence the question: was it not appropriate and appropriate to introduce such a mechanism? Besides, I do not hide that we have already tabled an appropriate amendment with Senator Libicki in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u81	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u82	Thank you very much. Our goal is for the wheels to have as many available sources of funding as possible. Mr. Senator said one thing I'd like to correct. Programs of the National Institute of Freedom, as far as I know, probably almost all do not require any own contribution Neither the Civil Initiative Fund nor the Organisation's Development Programme... And dozens of programs that require their own contributions? The Minister knows them. Can I finish? ...Neither the Civil Organisation Development Programme. Besides, the programs... Even in the case of the "EtnoPolish" programme implemented at the National Centre for Culture, there is such a provision that if the organisation concerned, when submitting its application, indicates that it is unable to cover its own contribution, it may be exempted from it. But I only add it as a matter of fact. As far as the provision of resources is concerned, I will certainly strive to ensure that the resources for activities for rural hostels in different forms are available every year. And these mechanisms... We will work on them after the evaluation carried out together with the wheels. Because we also hear a lot of comments about e.g. other programmes, other proposals, perhaps in the future. And I'm sure we'll talk about it. I hope those meetings I was talking about come to fruition. On this basis, we will be able to plan future years, also to look more closely at the activities of the rural housewives, not only as organisations that are specific survivors of culture and traditions, but also as small incubators of entrepreneurship. Because a lot of rural hostels' circles are very modern organizations that actually act as small business incubators and certainly this part of their business is worth developing in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I wanted to keep my mouth shut in general, but it's hard to keep quiet after the Minister's statement. Minister, you've used these terms many times before, you've used them to pay off to local governments, self-governments split the money after being considered, yours says you can only buy them in this store... Especially the last one. Did you report it to the D.A.'s office? Because if it's against the law, you're the lawyer, the minister even has a duty to report it. You're an accessory to the crime. It hurts me very much that you so easily and severely criticize the local government, which was really the only institution that supported the circles of rural hostesses and any other activity that took place in the Polish countryside for years. I know a lot of examples of positive activity of local governments, starting with civic budgets, in which also in rural communities the inhabitants themselves decide what they want to spend money on, and ending with programs such as the Western Pomeranian Voivodeship Local Government's Socialist programme, in which various types of social organizations, including unregistered circles of rural hostels or rosary stakes, can submit their own applications, implement the program and receive support in greater height than you declare. And I expect you to apologize to the local authorities in a moment for insulting the local government so easily. Unless you have some experience with local government officials from the PiS, who, as you said... who drive these things and operate in this way. Well, then you don't have to apologize. Otherwise, please apologize to local government officials, many thousands of people in Poland who devote their time and energy to... Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask you a question. That's the question I asked at the beginning: did you, Madam Minister, say that the governor points to a specific store where someone is to spend money... Did you notify the D.A.? That was the first question. Question two: do you know the cases of donations to the local government, various kinds of social organizations? Because I know only positive cases of self-government activity, and that's the attention, I'll surprise you here. From different sides of the political scene: and those partyless, and those related to the Platform, and those related to the PiS, etc. Because they're mostly people who want to support local communities. And you're just insulting them. Apologize to the locals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u85	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u86	Thank you very much, especially for this instruction at the beginning. I'll be honest, Mr. Senator, I don't think he understood what we're talking about all the time. Unfortunately, I know a lot of cases like this. They were e.g. such situations that this wheel, which worked with the governor, received funding, and that which did not cooperate, unfortunately did not receive such funding. And, to be honest, there are many times I've been approached by representatives of circles who feel just bullied and afraid to react to situations like this. We all know how local governments work, especially the smaller ones. And I don't think there's any reason to convince anyone here. The senator is trying to build such a very idyllic image of self-government here. Of course, I know a lot of self-governments who support the activities of the wheels, whether they're on their way or not, and really do a lot to support regional activity, the activity promoting the municipality or the district. And that's very valuable, and that's what I talked about at the very beginning. Unfortunately, so far there have been cases, well, just pathology, otherwise you can't call it. I will repeat once again: the rural hostels' circles have gained independence thanks to this law. They no longer have to worry, they no longer have to depend on a single source of funding, they can benefit from many sources of funding. I understand, Mr. Senator, that it may hurt some people that they can't come and say, "I want you to spend on this and on this, otherwise you won't get the money." But in my opinion, the women in the country know exactly what they want to spend their money on, and they really don't need someone to stand over them and tell them to spend it on it and on it. To be honest, these are not standards that should be applied in relation to rural hostels or any non-governmental organisations. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind me asking... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u87	Excuse me, sir, but right now, Senator Gawłowski is asking a question, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u88	If I may, I'll just ask. As I understand it, you've already withdrawn from these violations of the law, and you've pointed them out pretty easily before. Now you're just talking about some will or lack of self-support. I will say this: it is always reprehensible if this kind of phenomenon occurs. It's just, you know, I'm wondering. If we are already at this local government section, on what terms is the distribution of money into local roads organised by the government. There's no rules, there's a way of thinking. Do you think... Mr. Senator, does this question have anything to do with this bill? Yeah, wait, with the wheels, there's gonna be a relationship in a minute... I would ask you very much, however... Do you think it's justified to make such far-reaching accusations? Will the mere fact of registration mean that the municipal government will be willing to allocate money to support this type of activity? There's no union, Minister. You live in a world that doesn't exist. If you had a little local experience, you wouldn't have allowed yourself that kind of term in your life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u89	Minister, will you respond?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u90	I'm very happy to respond, because I see that the senator is very opposed to this bill, since he's already going to attack ad personam... In my opinion, such things should not happen, but apparently such standards are adopted and promoted. No, I do not withdraw from any examples, because there are very many examples in Poland. Of course, the senator may say that I live in some other reality... To be honest, these are the arguments simply below any criticism. We're here to discuss the amendment of the Rural Housewife Circles Act, not whether the senator has any comments on the various government programs. If such comments are, then of course There are many possibilities to express them, there are many possibilities to refer to them, but what I would like to appeal for is, above all, referring to this amendment, to its purpose and to what, I have the impression, some people here have forgotten, because they have focused a little on such political attacks. We don't do this for ourselves, we want to support organizations that have been working very actively for many years, but also the new ones that have been created in recent years and do really much for the Polish village. That kind of understatement of their activities, some attempt to attack this bill, I'll be honest with you, they're incomprehensible to me. Let me say again: the point is that the rural hostels' circles can also get funding this year, and they can get help in their activities, which especially during this period, when we actually have a very difficult situation, is very important, because the circles are trying to maintain these neighborhood ties in the countryside, to connect the local community. That is the purpose of this law, and that is what this law is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u91	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the honourable Members to speak. It's about the senators. It's because there's no need to be emotional around here. I would also ask the Minister to address only the issues that we are proceeding at this point. But I'm also asking your senators to do that. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Well, one word, one sentence of comment, literally two... Mr. Senator, I just asked. Could you just ask the senator a question... There you go. I understand, but this is... I didn't take the Minister's statement as a stigmatization of the self-government. The Minister merely pointed to certain pathologies, individual ones that appear. After all, Senator Gawłowski himself said that these pathologists must be fought. However, I would ask the senator not to use the narrative he uses. Mr. Senator, could you ask a question? And if he wants an apology... Well, you used the senator's words: only the local government has been actively supporting the KGW for years. Then I appeal to the senator to apologize to the local government, the KGW and the Polish village for the fact that this support, when you were a member of the government, was not there. And I'll get to the question. Minister, I'd like to ask... Because since 2018, after the introduction of these solutions, there have been voices coming directly from rural hostels and experts suggesting that certain consultants should be appointed to help implement this law. It's about helping you register your wheels, using your resources. This bill speaks of appointing coordinators. Is that the answer to these environmental appeals? And what possible tasks would these coordinators have to carry out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u93	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u94	The rural hostels may at this time be assisted by KGW representatives who operate in any county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. It is these plenipotentiaries who act as helpers when the wheel wants to register when it settles funds. And this is the main place where this support can be obtained. As far as coordinators are concerned, I will say that this is not the subject of this amendment either, because the amendment concerns the transfer of funds. We do not plan to appoint coordinators so far, at this point we consider it sufficient to operate KGW agents in the respective county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I am trying to understand your and your team's initiative to give this law legal personality to the village hostels' circles. I do not really understand why such an important law will be valid only until the end of 2020, in fact only for a few months. And I don't really understand why it's only going to be about parts of those rural hostels' wheels that are registered. You are certainly much better aware of this environment, although I must also worry you about the community of the Civic Coalition every day is in contact with the circles of the country's hostess, and not, as you thought, only since Christmas. And we are aware that very many of these wheels are circles, whose members are ladies who are already 50, sometimes 60 or more years old. And they can't really deal with novelties like legal personality, like using different resources. So really, this bill kind of divides these environments a little bit. I'll admit I'm surprised you're talking about mentality, not cultural considerations. In my view, it is culturally important that not all wheels are able to register. So my question is, why is this bill so short? And the second question is, how do you intend to encourage members of those wheels who have not yet registered to do so and to benefit from these measures? The third question is: how much of the 40 million will be allocated to the actual beneficiary, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and to carry out this whole project, this whole programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u97	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u98	Thank you very much. Let me say again that today we are proceeding with an amendment of the bill. The Act was adopted in 2018 and since that year the rural housewives have the opportunity to register, obtain legal personality, benefit from various types of facilitations. So this law, this amendment does not concern the fact that the wheels will be able to operate on the basis of this law only in 2020, because these are two completely separate things... But, Minister, I wasn't talking about any action, I was just saying that this amendment only applies until the end of 2020. Senator, I'll let you ask, but first let the Minister answer. This amendment concerns measures to support the rural housewives' circles in 2020. About... Because the senator mentioned... I was referring to the statements of the senator the Man who asked why certain mental changes would not be introduced by law? Well, because the law doesn't change mentality considerations, the law can change certain formal conditions, it can determine formal terms. And that's what the bill is about. And this amendment, I will repeat again, is that this year 40 million can be transferred to help for the rural hostels' circles. And I will also say right away that this amount will be allocated in full to support the rural hostels' circles. There are no hidden costs here. All 40 million are intended, only and exclusively, to help the rural hostess circles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u99	Thank you. Senator, you still want to ask me a question? No, thank you. I'm sorry to have gotten involved in the Minister's statement, but we've heard repeats so many times before, not answer questions that I wanted to shorten this repetition by the Minister. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Senator Benjamin Godyla. Please ask the question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u100	Dear... Am I on the phone? Hello? Yes, we can hear the senator. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Minister, I would like to refer to this law I live in the country. I've already set up a few NGOs, and I know what's going on. Just like the Minister said... And I really wish this bill didn't divide organizations that already work in the countryside. Near the hostess is not the only organization that operates in the country. For more than 20 years there has been a Rural Restoration Programme in Opole region. This programme brings together rural organisations. The council, the Soviet Council, almost every village has an association of development and renewal of the village. It is a non-governmental organisation with legal personality. There's a volunteer fire department and there's an LZS. There are many other organizations that work. And, of course, there are housewives' wheels that work together with us. And if only one organization, which is near the hostess, is appreciated now, and the others are not, then it will be such discrimination. I don't think we can share, we have to bring these organizations together. Very good that there's some money, but let's give it to those organizations that work, not just the hostels' collectives, and it's just the hostels' circles that are reported to the AriMR. So that with great responsibility let's approach this, or else we will destroy those organizations that really work, and it works well. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Minister the answer to the question: why is there such discrimination? We only see one organization, and the others as if they were on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u101	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u102	Senator, first of all, I will say again: this is not the subject of this amendment. The subject of this amendment is the transfer of funds to support rural housewives in 2020 amounting to PLN 40 million. That's one thing. Secondly, to be honest, I do not understand the claim that there are different kinds of organizations. Yes, in the village there are rural hostels, voluntary firefighters, associations, foundations. There are many legal forms, each of which involves specific rights and obligations. And it's hard to have I'm complaining about... because it's like we're complaining about that. voluntary firefighters receive support for the purchase of firefighters' equipment and rural hostels' wheels do not receive support for the purchase of firefighters' equipment. Well, to be honest, in my opinion, this argument does not primarily take into account reality, but does not take into account the fact that there are many different organisations of different nature in both rural and urban areas. And in connection with these legal forms, which are available to individual types of organizations... Poles who want to act in a specific legal form choose the legal form which best suits the intended nature of their activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u103	Thank you very much... Mrs. Marshal, could I ask you a question from room 217, but for your marshal? There's a request for your marshal to read the list of people who are written down for questions. Can she be taken into account? Of course, Mr. Senator. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Filip Libicki. There's only two people left. Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor's question, please. Remotely. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u104	Thank you very much. I'm short because Senator Gawłowski said what I wanted to say. Well, unfortunately, I have to say that the Minister has brought a discussion in the Upper House to such a low level... of insulting the local authorities many times. I'm not asking for an apology, because I'm definitely not gonna see them... Senator, you're welcome. ...especially in a time when, for example, Some Members of the PiS or Councillors trade masks, bringing 3 million PLN out of the Solidarity Fund, in Lower Silesia. I'll skip it. I have a question for the Minister, specifically, because it's time to rush us. I think we have many, many more important issues ahead of us, especially in the days of Coronavirus and COVID-19. Does the Minister believe that at the moment spending 40 million PLN... This may not be much for the state budget, but we are faced with major financial problems, especially in economic matters, in health matters, lack of personal protective equipment. Do you think that today, now, it is necessary to discuss such a law? Now that these rural hostels are certainly doing very well because they have always done well, because of their resourcefulness and cooperation with local governments, is it necessary to sit down? At a time when you're sure we're gonna be short of money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u106	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way: yes, I think spending this money is justified. Rural hostels are really doing a lot of work, and they make a huge contribution to rural development, both in terms of women's activation, in terms of entrepreneurship development and in terms of caring for our culture and tradition. And I believe that we must also look long-term, and we must see that the development of civil society is very important under all conditions. And here I answer: yes, absolutely I think it will be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Philip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'm going to draw a bit of a thread from Minister Gawłowski. Because you referred to this example, that here somewhere the general handed over a donation to the village housewives, and then demanded, as I understand it, that this grant should be given in a specific place, to someone who is a friend of his. Well, we have 2.5 thousand municipalities in Poland. And I'm not questioning that there's gonna be some sort of pathological situation or events that shouldn't happen. But moving this to the ground of my constituency... I served in my constituency, which has 29 municipalities and 6 districts, over 500 different events, and I can say this: during these various meetings, where we talk about various issues, I once met a situation that might have been possible after such a deeper examination. You're eligible for what you're talking about. So I'd like to ask you how many per 2.5,000 municipalities... 'Cause you said you knew a few or dozen of these cases. How many, more or less statistically, are these kinds of pathological situations that you know about, or have you heard, that I would say, by applying it to 2.5 thousand municipalities in Poland? That's the first question. The second question is the following. I think so. I don't know what you think about that. That if it's a five-thousand-dollar power supply... I agree that each amount is an important amount for the rural hostess' circles, and that this 5,000 is an important amount, but if in your opinion it is going to be, so to speak, some kind of protection against pathological situations, it seems to me that it will not fulfil its role. Do you think this is the right way to protect yourself from such situations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u110	Thank you. Here, as I have said several times, but once again I will say this, it is mainly about gaining independence, independence and this legal personality to protect against these pathologies, because it allows the wheels to obtain funds from different sources, so that they are not dependent only on one source, on one person, on someone who will make decisions not on the basis of objective criteria. That's what's important here. Once again, the wheels don't register in order to get the money, the wheels register in order to be able to do their business, to be independent, so that they can do their business in a way that they want no one to have to tell them so that they don't have to listen to how they're doing their business. I will repeat once again: it is the independence that was introduced by the 2018 Act that allows the wheels to diversify the sources of funding. So it's not like the senator said that these 3, 4 or 5 thousand zlotys give you that independence. This law has introduced many different solutions and it is thanks to them that the wheels can function independently, they can carry out such activities that are most suited to their needs. When it comes to pathological cases, unfortunately, they happen. Mr. Senator himself said he was also in contact with something you could call such a... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course, although I don't think there should be any such cases. I think that our goal, what we should strive for, is that there should be no such situation, that in the event of such situations just these people They knew what to do, how to react, and they knew that they didn't have to rely on just this one person or this one institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u111	Thank you very much. The senator would like to ask, wouldn't he? You're welcome, in short form.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u112	I would just like to ask you what the scale of this is, in your opinion, how many such cases there are for 2,5 thousand municipalities in Poland. Do you have any idea how many irregularities there are in how many municipalities this has happened? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u113	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u114	Let me put it this way: by observing this from my district, I can say that there are some districts in which such situations occur in general, and there are some districts in which local governments support the wheels, help them and this cooperation works out really well, regardless of their views. Thus, this situation is conditioned by various things, depending on many factors, above all on local authorities. We also carry out information activities to show that it is possible to register, to act independently and of course as best as possible with the local government, but if there is no such will, then to conduct your business without fear of being able to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u115	Thank you, Minister. Since the last time I read the list of people willing to ask questions, they have added themselves as eager to ask the question of Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Marek Komorowski. I ask Senator Alexander Swede to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u116	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, these negative voices are surprising, especially as it is a very positive bill, a very positive amendment. This 40 million PLN is spent on the circles of rural hostesses. I actually come from the south of Lower Silesia, where we have a lot of rural areas, we even have a situation that in one village there are 2 circles of rural hostels. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. I've already asked the Senator of the rapporteur... I know that today it is difficult to judge what the situation will be like in 1 year's time, in 2 years' time, but I would like to ask if this programme will be developed if the situation allows. What are the plans of the ministry? That's what I wanted to ask you. I know that it is irresponsible to propose amendments today that result in these amounts being increased, but I would like to ask what the ministry policy will look like: will we try to maintain and develop this programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u117	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u118	Like I said, we want support for the rural hostess circles to be as broad as possible. We want to develop different possibilities. On the one hand, it is support just paid under this law, but there are also new opportunities. We are also talking to the Minister, already a MEP, Andzelika Możjanowska, about the possibilities of supporting the circles of rural hostesses from European funds. I'm sure the wheels won't stay without help. We're gonna keep working to make sure there's as much as possible because the wheels are growing. There is potential, there is a great interest in this activity. What I enjoy is breaking up with a certain stereotype. I remember these various comments that appeared when this law entered into force, as some people said: why, after all, the wheels are already a relic, why support their activities? However, it turned out that thanks to this act we are dealing with the Renaissance of the circles of rural hostesses, they have become very active, and a lot of new wheels have been created. So we see that this was a good direction, and we're definitely going to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u120	Me remotely, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen... I don't know if you can hear me. Can you hear me? Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Hello! Yes, there you go, sir. Can you hear me? Good. Yeah, yeah. I wasn't supposed to speak, but when I listen to this debate and to the voices of my fellow Senators from the Civic Platform, I have a strong feeling that they are bothered by the government's support for the rural housewives in the field. I therefore have a question to ask the Minister: could you say whether the previous governments, the governments of the Civic Platform, supported the circles of rural hostesses, or were there such programmes, or was this aid greater, or was it not at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u122	Thank you very much. The possibility of registering rural housewives' wheels, creating rural housewives' circles under this law was introduced in 2018 and since then we have been paying support every year, such assistance for rural housewives' circles from precisely these measures. As far as I know, in previous years... Well, it's hard to relate here because these wheels worked in different formulas, so that's the best question. Yeah, I think so. It is to the opposition senators who are so eager to raise an argument about how much support it was. What I can tell you for sure is that in 2018 we enabled the groups of rural hostess to gain legal personality and obtain support not only by means paid under this law. A special programme for the rural hostess' circles, the EtnoPolska programme, has been created and funds can also be paid on this basis. I can speak for our government... on behalf of our government: we certainly will continue to support the rural housewives.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Komorowski wants to ask. Mr. Senator, do you want to ask? Yes. Mr. Senator Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u124	Minister, thank you for your reply. Minister, I have one more question. What is the overall response of the rural hostels and local governments since 2018? Do they approve of the government's decision to introduce this aid to the rural hostess circles, or do they have any comments? What do local governments and rural hostels generally say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u125	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u126	Thank you very much. In general, the adoption of the law was very positive, and I met with a lot of voices in which it was said that the wheels were not only supported but also a number of facilitations, so that they could carry out their activities easier, they could promote their regions more easily. This response is really very good and I think it shows very well this indicator in the form of the number of wheels that have reached for financial assistance and which have cleared this financial assistance. This shows that those fears that some have raised, that the ladies can't handle this accounting, were wrong, because the ladies have handled it well, and I am very happy about it. I am also very pleased that this activity is flourishing, there are more and more central but also local initiatives, and I am very happy that they are being supported. As for the reaction of local governments, they were mostly positive reactions. Unfortunately, as I said, in some cases such a very negative reaction was very hostile to this new possibility. But we are working to keep showing that these are very interesting solutions, that these are solutions that facilitate the activity of the wheels, and this translates not only into their activities, but also into the functioning of the entire municipality, the whole district or the whole region, because these wheels do not work for themselves, they work for their environments, they support, for example. different environments excluded, they promote culture, promote certain traditions, some issues that would have long been forgotten. It seems to me that through such a positive display of this activity we will be able to convince also those self-government officials who have so far hindered this activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u127	Thank you very much. That was the last question. For the record, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka asked for a written reply. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via the application chat rooms. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating remotely in the meeting, of their transmission by electronic means to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Senator Maria Koc signed up for the discussion. Mrs. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I recall the debate on this law, the debate that we held in November 2018. It was the first draft of this bill. I remember that at that time it aroused a lot of emotions, even though rural communities, women who live in the countryside, want to be active in those places where there were no NGOs, that over the years they talked about the need for support for some form of organisation that could bring together ladies living in the countryside. Nevertheless, this law met with great criticism and resentment. It was even said, some senators were even saying, and here I am sending you to the transcripts of those meetings. It's about bribes, about bribery to the villagers, and really this bill is, ladies and gentlemen, a great blessing. I say this because I come from the village and live in the village for many years, and by education I am an ethnographician. As an ethnography I have worked for many years and very well know rural environments, I have been working with the circles of rural hostels for a long time. I thought that after this year, actually more than a year of operation of this law, when it was created for several months, as the Minister said, several thousand new organizations, they are working dynamically, we see them everywhere, also in Warsaw, because they come here for various kinds of events, they come, well, now there is a pandemic, so they do not come, but they come and present their activities, their culinary traditions, their cultural traditions, folklore, any activity and it was very well received... And I thought that after a dozen months of good experiences such critical voices would not be present, but they still appear, which is very surprising to me. But, of course, you have the right to assess this law, the whole situation that the law has caused. I believe that this is the very necessary financial support, this amount of PLN 40 million. I'm sure it wasn't easy to get it in the budget, just like you did here. You said, also in the face of the numerous expenses that occurred during the outbreak of Coronavirus. But this money is, the ladies from the country housewives' circles will be able to apply for it in a simple way, apply for it. And, as the Minister said, over 11,000 organizations across the country can benefit from this funding. It will also be those organizations that already exist, and those newly formed, and will be able to receive grants of between PLN 3 and 5 thousand for statutory activities. Indeed, it must be said that since 2018 we have seen a huge revival and growth of social activity in the countryside, thanks to the rural hostels' circles. These are organizations with a beautiful tradition, because the first in Poland were created more than 150 years ago. They continued to function in various historical periods, often without being involved in their activities at a time when they could not be done, but, for example, in the post-war period, many such organizations were created. The worst time for them was the 1990s. In the 1990s, ladies and gentlemen, when various political, social and economic changes took place in Poland, also in the countryside, the activities of these organizations fell sharply, many of them simply ceased to exist. We remember that time as a difficult time, requiring readiness for constant change, causing financial instability. And at that time, as I said, many of these organizations just gave up their activities. But there are those who have survived, worked, worked continuously, and this is very commendable, for which they should be very, very grateful, because they had to overcome many difficulties in those times when even local governments did not have money to support them. After all, there were times, the 1990s, remember, lack of resources everywhere and this social activity was based primarily on some own work and their own modest means. Ladies and gentlemen, this has changed significantly thanks to the introduction of this law in November 2018. Because what was the legal situation of the rural hostel circles before the entry into force of this law of November 2018? We have also mentioned that they acted on the basis of the Act of 8 October 1982 on socio-professional farmers' organisations. According to this law, the rural hostel circles functioned as separate organizational units of agricultural rings and had no legal personality. They did not have legal personality, so it greatly limited their independence and independence, and in practice meant the need to gain acceptance of other institutions or organisations on which the rural hostels' circles depended. I absolutely do not judge how these agricultural circles worked, what this dependence was. It's just, objectively, they didn't have legal personality, so even if they wanted to submit an application somewhere, they couldn't. And yet, as the years passed, in the two thousand years, more and more programmes have been created in this past decade. More and more NGOs, with legal personality, learned how to write proposals, how to raise funds effectively, and some have done so with great success. Thus, those organizations which acted and operate in accordance with this Law of 1982 do not have legal personality, after all they can continue to act. And no one subtracts them from their history, and no one subtracts from this involvement in the previous activity, as well as from the involvement in these structures of agricultural circles. They can also register in the ARIMR to acquire legal personality. Because it's not that simple, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who registered a social organization knows what this process looks like, for example, in a registry court, etc. Here this path is facilitated, and additionally you can use the means that... That's right, the application you made means you just get that money. Thus, in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, there is no such assessment as formal, for example. Someone's from a community like this or another, from a local government or something. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this bill, thanks to real financial but also organizational assistance... Because it has to be said that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture works closely... Because my constituency is a typical rural area, so I know that they have such organizational aid there, different trainings are organized... i.e. have so far been, ladies have been willing to participate in them, have reported to ARIMR their needs and ARIMR has tried to meet these needs. And this incentive and assistance in the form of this law, and later precisely those actions which took place, resulted in thousands of new organisations and a significant increase in women's activity in rural areas. In accordance with the law we are considering today, ladies will receive further funds that will be financial support for them, and they will simply be able to continue their activities. But, ladies and gentlemen, why is it so important? The first money the ladies raised was spent in a very efficient way. What the Minister said confirms is my experience when I work with the ladies. They refurbished their classrooms, bought some equipment, some tools they needed, some folk costumes, some elements of these outfits. And it has to be admitted that the rural housewives' circles have added their own resources to every dollar received from the state budget. It's my own... Senator, just a minute. Now, right? One more minute. Is that how long I've been talking? Yeah, well, I'm asking you to finish. Oh, maybe I can use it five minutes later. ...or from other sources. They also added a great deal of social work, a great deal of personal commitment. What's important now, this year, when there's a coronavirus? Social organisations build their potential for years. So that the circles of the country hostess built this potential as well. Even the new ones did it, they put a lot of effort into it. They need to be helped so that they can maintain this potential so that they don't start when the epidemic ends, from scratch. So that for this the National Institute of Liberty e.g. Announced a competition for NGOs just to maintain the organization's potential. Because it's not about taking off with big events now, it's about just keeping what's been worked out so far so that you can resume your activity, some activity at the moment the epidemic stops. I'll ask for five more minutes, Mrs. Marshal, okay? Then it's five minutes straight away. Yes? Good. You'll finish up, Mrs. Marshal. Good. I just wanted to stress that the thousands... what did we see? How did this activity manifest itself? These are thousands of local events initiated by rural hostess circles, numerous festivals, integration picnics, harvest festivals. We admire activities to cultivate tradition, protect local cultural and culinary heritage. We see how ladies promote their villages, their municipalities, regions, so that Poland at various large cultural and economic events. These circles of rural housewives have always been a great value in the life of the village and here I bow to all those who have been operating continuously for years. But now the Renaissance has taken place and many new organizations have been formed. Let's support them and not argue about them. They must also be supported financially. And the needs are different. But this 40 million PLN will be spent as well as possible by the ladies. At this point, as a person who has been cooperating for years with the circles of rural hostesses, I would like to thank the ladies very much for their special commitment right now, in the days of Coronavirus. Because, ladies, how many social initiatives, such as support, assistance, ladies take? Mask stitching is all over the country. Ladies buy fabric, rubber bands, necks... In this way they respond to the needs of various institutions, organisations in their territory, e.g. Volunteer firefighters. In this way hundreds of thousands of masks have already been created. It's a proof of great hearts, great commitment. Ladies know you can do a lot on your own, but together you can do even more. And that's why they're getting together. At the same time, they rebuild, ladies and gentlemen, the social relations that once distinguished every rural community. It was this social relationship that this rural community has always been a wall behind each other, helping each other. And it's all being rebuilt in the country. It's a great value, it's hard to overestimate. And for that I would like to thank you very warmly, Madam Minister, the government for this money, for this bill, for the real support you feel and we all feel, because this Renaissance of the circles of the country housewives is just a daily observation. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u129	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u130	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that this discussion that took place in the High House on the occasion of this revision of the law has shown a lot. I in relation to my constituency And I am a senator from the Ciechanian subregion, an area which is largely composed of rural areas and small towns. I can say that I can't imagine a social life without a circle of country housewives. Why? Because it's an eternal tradition. It's not being introduced at the moment, but it's being refreshed now. The fact that women's involvement in the social life of the local community in which they lived and worked with their families on a daily basis is an invaluable value of the Polish village, the Polish national culture. It is worth recalling that the 2018 law clearly clarifies the tasks or objectives of the rural hostel circles, in particular they carry out socio-educational and educational activities in rural environments, carry out activities for the development of comprehensive rural areas, support the development of women's entrepreneurship, initiate and pursue measures to improve the living and working conditions of women in rural areas, disseminate and develop forms of cooperation, management and rational household management, represent the interests of the rural women's environment towards public administrations and develop folk culture, including in particular local and regional culture. I specifically quoted these statutory goals of the rural hostels' circles, because, even recently, we had a celebration of St. Floriana. As you know, St. Florian's a fireman's patron. Those who know the Polish countryside or the smaller environment, know very well that this firefighter holiday is one of the central events in local communities, just from May 4th, it is already depending on the calendar, because there are many volunteer firefighters and these celebrations are organized... And on the example of these festivities, you can see very clearly how these various organisations operating in the rural environment can work together, because it is usually the ladies from the circles of rural hostess who are also actively involved in the festivals of firefighters. And it is clear that without voluntary firefighters and without groups of country hostels and other organisations and associations that operate in the rural environment, the life of the local community would be much, much poorer. As the minister mentioned, we have more than 9 000 600, if I remember correctly, registered circles of rural hostels, and in the Mazowieckie voivodeship there are more than 1 thousand of them, of which in my district, as I mentioned, in the Ciechanov subregion, are dozens. In each municipality, in each district there are numerous circles of country hostels. And here's the support that was organized... And I would like to express my thanks here to the Minister for the resources that have been devoted to animation and development. Because the point is to reactivate a network of rural housewives' circles, so I understand the government's intention. Also giving public money to support their statutory objectives, their actions, so as to revive the lives of local communities as much as possible. This is particularly important because we over the years have been a bit shuddered by such a specific approach to the country's development, namely that development was to be based on the largest agglomerations, on such strong agglomerations, which are also strong socio-economic organisms, and that in turn, I would say, has sucked social life into smaller centres and rural areas. And rebuilding this natural social tissue is important not only culturally important, which is very important. And social, but also economic, because it makes the form of spending more attractive, it offers opportunities for organizing or realizing itself when living in a rural environment. And please note that there is one more element to this, namely that we have an increase in the number of rural, but non-agricultural, population at the moment, e.g. inhabitants from larger cities who settle in rural areas and who are simply looking for natural values, life, a better standard of air purity or other parameters, and also greater peace as a form of increasing their comfort of life. Whether, for various random reasons, they simply settle in rural areas, not pursuing strict agricultural or peri-agricultural professions. And this is an interesting process, and that's exactly what the circles of rural hostesses who not only promote local culture, but in general... I have been to many meetings where there have been talks with interesting people, there have been discussions about professional development, there have been various advices. There are very different organizational forms of these structures. And I think that this is a great value, and it would be worth it, that no matter who is in charge in Poland, this form of activity would be supported. The idea is to make it clear that public authorities have a duty towards those environments that do not have the opportunity to benefit from the various benefits of cultural life, such as those of large urban centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank the housewives, all the ladies and gentlemen who support the housewives' wheels, for their activities. And I am pleased that the government has provided in this amendment for support for further functioning, for initiating these activities, for this activity. After all, there is not much to be done for these 3,000 PLN, but this gives the so-called. the statutory basis to be able to function. And it's growing. Well, this is the third year, you can say, the act of this law, which indicates that, as my previous speakers, it is your Marshal Koc, who has already said so many good and warm words about the activities and functioning of the rural hostels' circles, whether it is my colleague, Senator Jackowski, who mentioned... I wouldn't want to mention all these things anymore, but I want to look a little bit back in history and add two more sentences to it. After all, the housewives' wheels have a history, have been created for over 150 years. In the days of the partitions, they were established and functioned as such associations, and in the interwar period they played a very active role and acted. Let us remember that, in fact, in the interwar period, between World War I and World War II, they dealt with a kind of culture, awareness, one can say that these were elite actions. This applies to the rural housewives who worked at that time. Well, the post-war period was very badly written down, so I would say, because, although certain goals were being achieved, during the period until 1980 there was harassment of the circles of rural hostels for religious reasons. For example, my mother-in-law, who was the head of the village housewives' circle, had to hide certain activities, pilgrimages, trips, because they were just being harassed, persecuted. So it was possible to act, but... well, if you were doing what the party recommended, you were doing it, and that was great, and if you didn't, then immediately there were calls, interrogations: and why are you doing other activities, why not? A lot of good things happened there, too. We remember those times, maybe not all of them, but we do. But there was no freedom. And comes the year 1980, the movement of solidarity arises. And what's going on here? Well, after 1980, there was a change that was incredibly... Today is the 12th of May, the day when the Solidarity of Individual Farmers was registered. The solidarity of individual farmers was registered after a long period of time... Look, it was just a few months after the registration of workers' solidarity, and they didn't want to accept the registration of individual farmers, who... at the time played this role mainly of agricultural circles. What's going on? During this time, agricultural circles are registered and agricultural solidarity is recorded. On 12 May 1981, the court registered it. What's going on? We're about to have martial law. And what happens next? During the martial law, a 1982 law on housewives' wheels... on agricultural organizations is being established. We are sitting, many of my colleagues are sitting, you can say, in boarding school, i.e. is interned, and the hostel circles are handed over to agricultural circles. It's just that the actions that were carried out at the time, behind Jaruzelski, were so recorded. You don't remember that. And you have to remember. That we were locked up. "Solidarity could not carry out any activity until 1989, and agricultural circles at that time took over the entire power. And I can say that it was only after 1989 that government renewal began, after the 1990 local elections. It was these new local governments that took over the role of financial support. I am very grateful to a lot of local governments who have been helping to do things because they have no voivodships. After all, the first stage was the former municipal authorities, and these houses would not exist, they would be extinct. In the majority they remained only out of their contributions. The rural hostels' circles, which were subject to the 1982 Act, were only such a supervision that I would say, as if control, support... Well, it was about buying some small gifts, it was just a back room. And everything that was going on was mainly dependent on the support of the local government. Of course, here and there were very good examples, and there have been pathologies, but these pathologies are not the subject we are discussing today, as the Minister said, because these are exceptions. Yeah, but I can give you my own example. I once offered one of my friends who was the head of the country housewives' club... I'm telling her, take it, run for councilwoman. And she says to me, "Listen, I respect you very much, but I'm not gonna run for councilwoman, 'cause my uncle's gonna destroy me, he's not gonna give me money to function. In four years' time, she's already run from the council committee, and today she's a councilwoman, just because this guy was giving away the money. As a result, it is clear that financial dependence on the wojews in some cases is extremely irresponsible... That's what I'd say, addictive. Today these housewife wheels have been three years in a row With the act of this law, they can say that they operate independently because they do not have to ask for registration. Let us remind you that some of the hostess' circles had to start an association and only in the form of a registered association could they legally function. In the absence of legal personality, they were either subject to agricultural circles, WZRKiOR's, or were directly dependent on good cooperation on the part of the wojites. That's what it's been like so far. Today I am very grateful that this law works, that we can actively support so many programs. The hostel circles have a really great role to play today, they are valuable local environments that work with the guards, cooperate with local governments and many other organisations. Thank you very much to all the hostess circles that work for us. Let them continue to do so because the village really needs such support from NGOs. They have legal personality, and thanks to the agency, they get support. And I'd say, well, let's not argue about money anymore. It can be said that if the Law and Justice say that it will accomplish something, it really wants to do it and is credible. Just as we wanted to support the programmes that have been in place so far, so do we want to support those programmes that are currently in place. Well, we're talking housewives' wheels, and we're talking about firefighters. After all, we remember that last year's guards, volunteer guards, received PLN 5,000 each. Almost every unit that requested this received a grant of PLN 5,000 and this was also very valuable support. I'm not talking about equipment anymore, about other things. And the co-operation of the guards... After all, often it is that the wife is, say, in a circle of housewives, and the husband or son is in the guard. This cooperation is very good and I hope it continues to be so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Komorowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I am speaking because I would like to thank the Minister, thank the government that supports the rural hostels' circles in the field. It must be said that in general the village is beautiful, the village is integrated. The rural hostess' circles cooperate with a number of organizations, cooperate with local governments. I represent the district of Łomżyńsko-Swiazalski, and especially the district of Zambrowski, where I am the president of the district branch of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland. Thanks to this, I can observe the functioning of the rural hostels' circles practically every day. Just before the Coronavirus epidemic, we were able to hold a reporting meeting at the CSR. It must be said that they do not practically take place without the participation of the rural hostels. Anyway, you've already talked about this, Senator Jackowski, although in a slightly different context. He said that firefighters help with all kinds of celebrations, but you have to add that housewives' wheels help firefighters. It can be seen that the cooperation of these organizations is exemplary in the countryside. Here we should especially thank the wojewódz, who support the circles of rural hosts not only financially, but also logistically and substantively. This is important because, as I said, this is how the whole environment is integrated. It can be said that without the rural hostels' circles, the village would look poor today. These are responsible women, these are ladies who know perfectly well the reality in which they move, and they know how to manage money, how to look. Without the rings of the country housewife, there would be virtually no harvest in our house. Well, if they were, they're poor, because they're mostly the ones who organize it. True, this year it may look a little different because of the epidemic that's going on. It's not known how she's gonna develop. But so far... I have been observing this since 2018 and I can say that something will be missing if it is not possible to conduct a normal public activity, such an open, wide-ranging one. But with us, the rural hostels also work well with the local government. There are various exhibitions organized, there are parties, there is an Easter table... There's a Podlasie Easter table organized. It is a very large party where the circles of rural hostels from all over the province come down and present their culinaries, various kinds of outfits. Well, there's multiculturalism in the Podlaskie voivodship, and you can see that. And I would like to thank you very much for all this. There's probably always more to be done, there's probably gonna be more programs in the years to come. In general, it must be said that the rural hostels' circles promote this Polish culture, this traditional culture, which is important for all of us. I would also like to thank, as I have already said, as the president of the district branch of the Association of Volunteer Fire Departments of the Republic of Poland, all those wheels that cooperate with us and support the activities of voluntary firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, with Senators Rafał Ambrozik, Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla made their speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Jan Filip Libicki have submitted legislative proposals in writing. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? There are no votes. I therefore close the discussion. And I have a question as to whether a representative of the government wants to respond to the legislative proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u136	With regard to the conclusions that have emerged in the course of the discussion, I have already had an opportunity to respond to the questions on which these proposals were submitted. I can say again: when it comes to support in the coming years, we want to be based on concrete forecasts, on how the number of registered wheels will grow. This should be the main indicator for planning another support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print 104, and the report is published in print 104 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. From where? Out of place, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission worked on a draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II. As the marshal mentioned, this is a project initiated by a group of Senators of Law and Justice, represented by Senator Zbigniew Czerwiński. We've had a few... George. Excuse me, Jerzy Czerwinski. We've had a few meetings. The delay in this matter was dictated by waiting for an opinion and a discussion with the representative of the Foreign Minister, which took place this morning at the last meeting of the committee, which ended with a verdict, adopting a draft resolution and drawing up a report which I have the honour to present to you. I will not read the text of the draft resolution, I would like to say about 3 or actually 4 essential aspects. First, the resolution draws attention to the extraordinaryness of Polish resistance against the countries of the aggressors of World War II. It can be said that in the first stage of the war there was cooperation between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and this is why the two allied states started and started a war. Poland resisted as the first European nation. During the German and Soviet occupation Poland created an extraordinary European resistance movement, mainly in the part occupied by Germany, as well as a unique underground state operating with authorities, which under such extraordinary conditions had the power to make decisions and cooperated with the legal authorities of Poland in exile. Secondly, the draft resolution also mentions the extraordinary sacrifice of Polish society in the work of saving Jews, reminds us of the most draconian punishments for helping Jews, much more severe punishments than in Western Europe. So we're dealing with extreme resistance. That's the first motive. Second With the scale of both human and material destruction. Draft of this resolution Because, like the previous resolutions taken by the Chambers of the Polish Parliament, because it is not the first resolution connected with the round anniversary of the end of World War II, it indicates: genocide, mass executions, planned destruction of the national elite, the robbery and destruction of cultural goods, the huge losses suffered by the civilian population. The third recital concerns the end of World War II, which for Poland did not mean regain independence. As a result of World War II, we were in the zone of Soviet domination. What was a true release for the nations of Western Europe, for Poland and other nations enslaved by the Soviet Union, was another form of slavery. The project resembles the effort of freedom and independence of the Polish nation, which ended in regaining, as we read in the draft resolution, real independence after 1989. Finally, we propose that the resolution pay tribute to Polish heroes, soldiers fighting on all fronts of World War II, civilians, members of the Polish Underground State, but also soldiers of all Allied forces, which led to the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945. The controversial and demanding element was to identify and name the problem of war losses caused by the actions of both allies which attacked Poland and then Germany. This is the part of the project and we finally decided to do this formula... It is proposed that the Senate take the following position: Poland has suffered in proportion the greatest losses in people and in national assets, of which we have a duty to remind the entire international community. After listening to the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his practical position on postulates and claims made officially by the Polish government, we decided to maintain this way of action and expression of the Polish perspective, which takes place since the resolution of the Sejm, adopted in 2004 and in which we point out the great destructions, the moral consequences of these destructions and the obligation to remind them in international relations We thought, especially after hearing the opinion of the Foreign Minister, that maintaining the current formula, as I say, for several years in many parliamentary documents, would be the most sensible and responsible for the interests of the Republic. So in the end, this most controversial or discussed passage is in this form. So much for my report. I ask very warmly, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that we adopt a resolution in the form and form adopted by the Legislative Commission. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Śvilski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, and I am asking this question as one of the applicants of this original text, which has been amended in the course of today's work by the committee. Mr. Senator, what was the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' representative in relation to the initial extension? Was it positive, or did it contain some sort of polemic elements? If the senator would like to present this position as a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... This is a question addressed to Senator Ujazdowski. And I have another question for Senator Czerwinski. How did this original submission come up with the wording... I'm talking about the original second paragraph in the text that... Mr. Senator, let me remind you that the time to ask questions is one minute. Yeah, short question, short question. I wanted to include it in one question, but I can ask you a second time, Mr. Marshal... Mr. Senator, get to the end of the question. Here is the phrase: "One of the few occupied countries in which the death penalty was threatened for helping the Jews. " Do you know any other countries? If so, please explain, because as for Poland it is repeated such a scheme that Poland was the only country in which the death penalty was threatened for helping Jews. If you're familiar with such examples, I'd ask you to zoom in on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u141	Thank you very much. Please, gentlemen of the senators to whom the questions have been addressed, the answers. As I understand it, the first question was addressed to Senator Ujazdowski, so first I will ask him to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u142	Mr. Marshal, here's what it looks like. In the first phase of our work on the draft resolution, we did not have the position of Foreign Minister. Then we heard that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not commenting and there were no official comments on the text. On the other hand, there was approval for the correction made by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, weakening the pronunciation of this passage, which concerned repair and compensation of war for both Germany and the Russian Federation. And from my point of view, as rapporteur, it was crucial to answer the question I asked Minister Szynkowski whether the issue of repair and compensation of war in a new form is the current objective of Polish policy on an intergovernmental level. And I got the answer that no, we got the answer that no. Therefore, as the author of the correction to his amendments, Marshal Borowski and I considered that the most responsible provision in the resolution would be the one who maintains the issue of war losses incurred by Poland and their morals, and even any consequences in international circulation, without specifying precisely the form of taking this issue, which, as our guest, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, has said, requires a deep decision which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not yet taken. And that's it... Thank you very much... ...when it comes to motivation. To my knowledge still in Ukraine, as I would like to say, there was the same drastic system of criminal liability for helping... And in Belarus. ...Jews. Although it was impossible to talk about Ukrainian statehood in the shape of Polish of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u143	I ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! From one of the publications of the IPN it would appear that two areas in which the death penalty was still applied for helping Jews were occupied part of the Soviet Union, namely Ukraine, and Belarus in today's sense, as well as Yugoslavia, these two countries. And since the Senator rapporteur answered the question to me in part, I will also answer the question addressed to him in part. Well, I didn't want the issue of reparation, the word "reparations" to be a lietite of this resolution, in fact in the self-correction mode I changed a bit of the text, instead of the expression "repairs and compensations," instead of the phrase "reparations and compensations," which obviously doesn't change the substantive pronunciation of the text, but removes from its interior the wording which, at certain moments and in some environments, becomes, I would call it, a bull's sheet, a red bull's sheet. It was about the text of the draft resolution, which was supposed to say something completely different, but I will refer to it in my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and in the case of senators participating remotely in the sitting, please send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've got two lines ahead of me. One is from print 104, signed by 23 Senators from Law and Justice, but only because so few Or so many that only so many were available at the time of the submission of the project due to the remoteness of the proceedings. I suppose everyone at the club would sign that text. The second is the text from print No 104 S, i.e. after commissioning. I would like to make one more point here. Print 104, i.e. the original text, with practically the one amendment I was talking about, will be presented by me as an amendment in the current second reading of this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, these prints don't just vary in volume. Although printing 104, the text from printing 104, keeps this so that it He called it, the standard of two pages of the manuscript. There is also a fundamental difference in the basic issue, namely what is the purpose of the resolution. Contrary to appearances and contrary to the discussion we saw at the committee meeting, this is not about reparation issues. Really, it's not about reparations. This was mentioned in the resolution adopted by the Sejm in 2004. The Senate does not need to repeat this. Well, it's very easy to tell by comparing both texts. Interested persons, if possible, I would ask you to make this effort. What's missing? 'Cause it's a text from a committee-cut print. The cut by almost half is largely the text of the original printing. And what is lacking in this committee text? Two essentials are missing. And first, the question... In order to appreciate, or maybe see the difference, one has to go back a bit historically. Until a certain point in Poland, I would say, taboos were in force. Some things, some facts couldn't be said in public, and if anything, it was a bit ridiculous. I'm afraid so. It was only recently that we came to a certain independence. Katyn's case was known to everyone, but there was a time when Katyn was told differently than it actually was. The murder case, genocide in Ukraine, began to tell the truth about this genocide very recently, a few years ago. Not in 1989 or 1990. The question is: why can't Poland speak with its own voice about what happened to it during World War II? Let us say more, let us be more specific: it is not about quoting historical facts, it is also about drawing conclusions from them. Why can't Poland judge World War II with its own voice? Why was Poland presented until recently as a victorious country in World War II, although it suffered the greatest losses in the personal sphere and in the material sphere? The concept of reparation is secondary here. Why couldn't Poland talk about it for so long? Perhaps someone else was supposed to monopolize the idea of the victim of World War II. And representatives... I don't know what to call it... this, in general, formation, Polish representatives also applauded this view. That's not true. Poland was the biggest victim of World War II. Second fact: why couldn't Poland talk about it? Because it's a fact in itself. Simple answer: because ours in quotes For 50 years after World War II, the sovereign may not have told us so much how much he had disciplined all attempts to speak the truth. It was against their system, against their values. But also it should not have been said how Poland actually behaved during World War II. I'm not just talking about losses, I'm talking about the heroism of our nation. These are two facts. If certain texts, certain fragments from the original printing are not in the commission printing, that is why they are missing. This is a continuation of taboos, these spheres that are better not to be moved, because in general the world is spoken differently, and sometimes we stick a patch of aggressor, invaders, holocaust perpetrators... Not the main victim of the war. You can't exchange our losses in public. Already begging for it? We are not asking for anything in this resolution, we are just talking about our losses and we are saying one thing: we are allowed to present these losses, also in the international arena. The time when we were silent, when we were silenced, was over. We'll talk about it. It's an increasingly distant story, but it still affects our lives. I, ladies and gentlemen, will finish this very emotional one, it is true, but the introduction, and I will quote to you the text of the amendment, which, as I say, is practically the same as the original one, so that we know how we raise our hand, how we press individual buttons, what we vote for, whether this is to be a continuation of the taboo, or whether we can already say everything. 75 years ago, on May 8, 1945, the totalitarian systems of German Nazism and Russian communism, the biggest and bloodiest armed conflict in human history, began: World War II. Poland was the first to resist the armed invaders. The Polish people never gave up, and the Polish soldiers fought alongside the army of allies on many fronts. It is estimated that at the end of World War II more than half a million Polish soldiers fought against Germany together. A comparable number were members of various underground organizations operating in occupied Poland. Poland was the only country occupied by the Third Reich, where the collaborating structures of state, political and military authorities were not created. In Poland there was the largest and strongest resistance movement in Europe, with a world-wide phenomenon of the Polish Underground State and its underground military forces, the National Army. Poland was also one of the few countries of occupied Europe in which the death penalty was threatened for helping the Jews, and yet Poles are the most among those who were awarded the award of the Righteous Among the Nations for saving Jews from the Holocaust. During the war, Germans and Soviets committed mass murders on civilians and prisoners of war, displacement, theft and deliberate destruction of property. These were characteristic signs of the entire German and Soviet occupation in Poland: genocide, destruction of the national elite, murders and mass executions, deportations, expulsions, concentration camps, prisons, captures, exports to forced labor and to camps, economic exploitation, looting of property and cultural goods, deliberate destruction of Polish national assets. The aim of these actions was to exterminate Poles completely and permanently erase Poland from the map of Europe. Poland was the first and largest victim of World War II. She suffered in proportion the greatest losses in people. A total of more than 6 million victims (22%) the population in general). Of the 35 million citizens residing before the war in the Second Republic of Poland after the war, there were 24 million people living within the new borders of Poland. Similarly, Poland's material losses during World War II are proportional to the greatest among the losses of all European countries; to date it is estimated their amount. As a result of the conspiracy of Yalta Poland, despite being the biggest victim of the war, she lost to one of the invaders The Soviet Union It's almost 45%. its pre-war territory: nearly 178 thousand km2. To this day, none of the aggressors have recognised or compensated these losses in a holistic manner. Despite the exemplary, implacable attitude of Poland and Poles towards invaders and proportionally the greatest territorial, biological and material losses, in the national elite, in cultural and art goods, the successors of the Third Reich and the USSR avoid discussing claims of Poles, victims of war and their descendants, the return of cultural and art goods plundered during the war. The Polish State and the Polish Nation were also harmed indirectly, in a way set aside in time and far-reaching. As a result of the agreements concluded by the Allies at the conferences in Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam, we were dealt with subject matter rather than as an equal participant of the anti-Hitler coalition. The Soviet sphere of influence. As a result, for 45 years we were forced by an unwanted, foreign-minded, culturally and civilized system and full political dependence on the Soviet Union. This resulted in the loss of sovereignty, economic collapse, the degradation of the state elite, the reduction of development opportunities, including the lack of post-war assistance from the West. Poland, closed behind the iron curtain, could not articulate its own legitimate demands, among others. related to the effects of the war. Poles did not accept this state (Fight of Soldiers of the Cursed, Labour protests, anti-communist underground organizations, the uprising and activity of the NSZZ.Solidarity, the leading role of the Catholic Church), did not give up and fight their real independence after 1989. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Poles Soldiers, members of guerrilla groups, participants of the resistance movement, members of the Polish Underground State, civilian population The victims of World War II. The Senate of the Republic of Poland takes the view that power cannot be profitable to an aggressor and that is why the right and fair claims due to Poland and Poles should be met, which are not settled until today. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senate, you have two texts to consider. Pick the right one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u147	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, as one of the applicants of this resolution, which Senator Czerwiński has just mentioned, will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment, which has been tabled because, in my deep opinion, this text, which has been proposed by us, fully highlights all aspects of this drama, which was the Second World War, especially for the Polish state and for Polish citizens. And it seems to me that as the Senate, we should pay homage, especially since this 70th anniversary of the end of World War II for objective reasons does not at this moment favour any deeper debate about what happened during World War II, if we consider the pandemic of coronavirus and the restrictions of these discussions by force. And a lot is happening on this occasion in the so-called. historical policy both at our right-hand side of the map and at our left-hand side of the map, which shows that contrary to the claims that are often made, that this is history and let's forget about the past, it doesn't matter much to the future, except that it is drama and there are some historical research, but it is a living aspect also in international politics. Speaking of what Senator rapporteur and Senator Czerwiński were talking about, it is worth recalling that the post-war War Compensation Office at the Council of Ministers prepared a balance of material losses of Poland for the purposes of reparations. According to these studies, the railroad lost 84%. assets, energy, 65%, postal and telecommunications, 62%, education, 60%, mining, 42%. Of the 30,000 factories, 10,000 survived, but in these preserved half of the buildings were destroyed, and the machinery park was destroyed or deported. 30% of the forests were also destroyed. From occupied Poland, Germans exported or used huge natural resources and Poles as a slave labor force on site for the purposes of the war economy. Total economic losses, of course, without an estimate of human losses, according to the War Compensation Bureau amounted to 259 billion pre-war gold, or 49 billion pre-war dollars. In addition, there are losses suffered by individual citizens. In 1990, Prof. Alfons Klafkowski, a late specialist in international law, calculated that over 13 million people would have suffered $ 285 billion in compensation for the victims and their heirs. 10 September 2004 And I would like to draw attention to this date, because it was at a time when the government of SLD ruled in Poland, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution which stated that Poland had not yet received adequate financial compensation and repair of war for the enormous damage and material and intangible losses caused by the German aggression, occupation, genocide and the loss of independence by Poland; the Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on The draft resolution of the Sejm was a prostration of the action taken by the capital self-governments. It was the Warsaw Council on 22 April 2004 that adopted a position in which it asked the then president of the capital city of Warsaw Lech Kaczyński to take stock of the losses of the capital city of Warsaw as a result of the Second World War. President Lech Kaczyński made the most of this subject, appointed a special team led by Prof. Wojciech Fałkowski, historian, currently director of the Royal Castle in Warsaw. In November 2004, a report was published, in which all material losses, without human losses, which are beyond estimate, were calculated at the value of $45 billion, 300 million, at the value of the dollar of 1 November 2004. Importantly, the resolution of the Seym was not implemented until today, and it will soon be 16 years since the adoption of this resolution. So much for the repair, because I wouldn't want to go deeper into this discussion. But I supported, I supported... And I think that this draft resolution is of major importance and it would be detrimental to our public life if we accepted this, well, flattened That's how I'd put it. The draft resolution, which does not raise all the aspects referred to in the original submission, or raises those aspects, but in a very brief way, does not allow them to resound. And that's why I think the vote on the draft resolution... I would just like to call on all senators to vote on this motion for a resolution to be supported by this position from the original submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u150	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am very brief. I will not read the draft resolution recommended by the Legislative Commission, we all have access to it, citizens will have access after a decision taken by the Senate if the resolution is adopted. I would like to say that this text has a very clear pronunciation as to the name of those responsible for the start of World War II, the aggression on Poland, the extent of the damage, and as to the resistance of the Polish people, the scale of the losses suffered, what was the Second World War and its ending for Poland It was not a regain of freedom and independence, it is very clear. But I want to stand very clearly against the false argument of Senator Czerwiński, who wants to create the impression that we are dealing with some moral breakthrough, before which the Polish state did not work in this matter, the politically responsible people did not meet the patriotic criteria. The history of the free Republic denies it. Resolutions adopted in 2004 were mentioned. I would also like to say that commemoration of the underground organization Freedom and Independence was the work of the Sejm during the reign of Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek. A large programme of inventory of war losses this is 2006 and I myself signed a contract with the head of the Institute of National Remembrance in this case. So the Polish state worked. A novelty And referring to the deadline introduced by Senator Jackowski, I will say: the damage is the political practice, which consists in announcing a demand for a reparation from Germany without real coverage in government policy. Well, that's just too bad. This should not be done. We should not say very serious things without being covered in political practice. The draft resolution recommended by the Legislative Commission does not close the issue of liability for losses incurred by Poland by the aggressors as a result of World War II, but operates in the language of responsibility. And I hope that in a serious discussion with representatives of the government, we will gain the knowledge on what line, on which strategy the Polish government decides on this matter. This morning, the responsible minister told us that no decision had been made on this matter, despite very loud and harsh demands. So if something is harmful here, then it is a political practice that is at all focused solely on internal dispute rather than on achieving serious goals in the international arena. Our project, the draft of the Legislative Commission, is written in the spirit of public responsibility for words. And I strongly recommend it to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, to be honest, the arguments of the applicants for the original draft resolution didn't convince me. The argument that we couldn't talk so much, we couldn't demand, we couldn't perform, we didn't know... well, it's not real. I believe that even the example of the Sejm's resolution quoted here contradicts this. And I haven't generally felt any pressure over the last decades that we can't talk about actual victims, about what was going on, about the story, about how we've been in this situation, not about anyone else's, and who's responsible for it. I believe that the discussion was conducted, and in the early 1990s it was very intense, probably because of the years when it could not be discussed when it could not be published. There were a lot of memories, people were still alive. I read a lot about it myself at the time. And I don't feel like we're actually discovering now that there's some kind of historical breakthrough and we're getting to some truth here that's been kept from us. But this is one thing. Nevertheless, the content itself... When Senator Czerwiński read the text of the draft resolution, well, however... It is of course sharper, it is also more elevated, less smoother. But, frankly, I think the original version was better. I lack a bit of reference to such unity of the nation, to such a politicality of the victims, to the apoliticality of the blood which has been shed. But, well, not everything has to be perfect. But are we really the Senate... Well, we don't speak as a government that has to have a balanced position, and really, if it wants something, it has to be consistent. We'll pass a resolution, determine our position. It is quite common to hear resolutions of different parliaments, which, well, differ slightly from the official position of the government of a given country on various issues. And I think that here, in this original resolution, there is nothing that would somehow violate cooperation between countries, etc., anything that would be historically untrue. So... I have to say, Mr. Senator has given me a job now. I'm gonna have to read both projects, compare them, and think about them. 'Cause I don't really know if we have to be so gentle about those horrible days that we've been through. Well, to this responsibility of others for what happened, which is actually sometimes made to us, the greatest victim of World War II. So thank you for both positions and I will have to really think about it. Because unless I agree very much with the argument, the original content of the draft resolution is harsher, more emotional... But I think that's our job too, to move, to make you think, to inspire, even slightly controversially. It's not just a mild resolution that's gonna go away and nobody's gonna notice. And unfortunately, that could happen too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you will speak to Senator Czerwinski, whom I remind... Since the time of the previous speech exceeded four minutes, I would now expect him to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u154	Mr. Marshal, two sentences on formal issues. Firstly, I would like to make a request for the committees to set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this meeting due to the convergence of dates. And the second point, only in historical terms. The first draft resolution on the repair of Germany appeared. The date of its entry into the Marshal's staff is 28 August 2003. It's about Senator Jackowski's speech. He lay about a year in the freezer, but luckily he was passed. I have had the honour of being a representative of the Members of the applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll let you know that the list... No, I'm still here. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Czerwiński started by saying that he was some sort of discovery who murdered Poles in Katyn. He also mentioned the murder of Volyn and so on. Mr. Senator, I don't know what circles you were in, but I was already discussing this in the 1960s, and I knew who murdered our officers in Katyn. In the 1970s there was already a discussion in opposition press forums, materials concerning Katyn were confiscated, in which this was written. So it is not a surprise for many, many Poles. You presented your vision of history, supported by the PiS senators. History, however, and historians know about it, was more complicated. It's not like if you move one element, it doesn't affect other elements. This story of yours... Even tried to secure That's legal, because that's why the IPN bill was changed. It was tried to secure it legally. And of this government and prime minister, the PiS government has withdrawn its cancer. This resolution is not... the draft resolution you proposed is not the draft anniversary resolution. Because you have also proposed, and this is the most important part of this resolution, a request for repairs from Germany and Russia. And you repeated it in your speech, and you repeated it by quoting it. And this is the essential part of this resolution. Not those losses and the fact that we were victims of two regimes. That's what we all agree on. But my objection is that you, too, are still in the theory of two enemies, which was valid during World War II, and has not been valid since 1945, because of those two enemies, there is only one left. And now you're trying to bring that theory back to life, saying so colloquially, reheat it. Question: for what purpose? The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs asked directly, also by me, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepared and decided to act in this direction, in order to obtain a reparation, answered: no. This, of course, was about Germany, because Russia... Or is it about Russia? This is the situation, if there were any possibilities, it is the question: why does the current government not decide to take such steps? Such interstate steps, legal steps. And why doesn't the majority of the Sejm, in which Law and Justice dominates, propose such a resolution? And yet, without a problem, having a majority, it is possible to push this kind of resolution in the Sejm and this position would be much more serious, because the resolution of the Sejm obliges the government to do something. So the question is, what is it? To mess things up? Who? We already have a terrible relationship with Russia. It's bad. This resolution does not make any changes and does not refer to what Russian propaganda is doing at the moment, which undermines the cause of World War II and blames Poland. This is done by the current president of Russia. So it's not just to argue with this lie that flows from official government entities in the East. I don't find that kind of element here. I don't find it. And the basic thing is to demand a reparation. I don't want to go into legal analysis anymore, but let me remind you that three or four years ago Law and Justice in the Sejm created a team that dealt with it, calculated it, determined it. So, what's the big deal? Have there been any international steps? Have any serious steps been taken by the current government? No. Why? Therefore, I think, but besides the past one must remember the present and the future. You must forget about this not only in this matter, but also about the annual resolutions on the crimes in Volyn. I don't ask you what it's for, but it's not really... If this resolution were to pass, it would be expected that some of the members of the Ukrainian Parliament would be injured, as in the case of the Volynian parliament, etc. I don't go into Yalta, Potsdam, etc. It is also clear from a historical point of view here, but from today's point of view it is quite complicated. Because on the one hand it was, of course, the division of this part of Europe and the dedication of Eastern Europe to the Soviet Union at that time, but on the other hand, it was the transfer of the western and northern lands to us. It was the loss of the eastern lands of the pre-war Republic, but also the transfer, because that's what you have to call it. Western and northern lands, including the Opole region, of which you are a resident, and also Gdansk, of which I am a resident. So, as I say, if you want to see only one aspect, this is it. It's not enough. You have to try to see the whole thing and wonder what will happen if you want to remove only one element from this structure, although historical, but one in which we are still in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski, who will take the floor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! Dear fellow Senators! With regard to this discussion, which is being discussed here, about the draft of this special resolution, it must be stated for sure that such a resolution does not solve and does not address all the problems that could be or should be addressed both in one and the other text. Nevertheless, it raises important issues related to World War II. I will not agree with my previous speaker and with the previous speakers who claim that in this resolution there are demands for reparation in the version submitted by Senator Czerwiński. There's no such statement, I didn't hear it anyway. Rather, there is a statement that these reparations have not been paid out, which is a fact. And I would absolutely disagree with Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's statement that he already talked about the Katyn crime in the 1960s or 1970s. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was a very young man in the 1960s. I will say that in schools up to the 1970s and 1980s, there was no mention of Katyn's crime. On the contrary. It should be mentioned here that in 1969, in the era of Leonid Breznev, in Belarus the main monument of Nazi war crimes was built by the Soviet authorities in the village of Chatyń, and this is because it is associated with Katyn. A number of foreign delegations were invited to Chatynia, among others. President of the United States Richard Nixon, Jasir Arafat, Gandhi. It was all meant to create such a vision to link the Katyn crime to the Germans. So this truth about the Katyn crime was long, and long, hidden, and the Soviet Union intervened in the West when some attempts were made to commemorate the Katyn crime. Soviet Union notes were made, diplomatic protests, even if the Cathedral monument was unveiled in London in 1976. So it's not that clear. And I'd say it's not like that... And one might ask: why are we in such a situation? No, among others. Therefore It was a bit mentioned in this position. After the war, we were not taken into account, we know why, in Marshall's plan to help Poland out of this cataclysm of World War II. And certainly, if we were included in Marshall's plan, that is, if we were in another sphere of influence, at this moment the economic, economic and cultural situation would be at a much higher level than it is. We managed to manage, the Polish people managed, but it is not so clear. So that I too, listening to this discussion, would agree to the position of Senator Czerwinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you that... Senator Bosacki. I'm sorry. You're welcome, Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I am pleased that a draft of such a resolution was created and that we will vote on it, because the position of the Polish parliament reminding Poland and Poles of the role on the fronts of World War II is absolutely necessary. Necessary because of attempts to forge history, conscious or unaware, resulting from the fact that unfortunately this great generation, which took part in the Second War, is leaving. Literally in recent days or weeks we have had examples of this in both great powers. Russia consciously uses propaganda and political statements trying to forge responsibility for the Katyn crime. However, what I am expressing with great regret in the High House, unfortunately also the second great power, then and today the largest power, the United States of America, allowed itself four days ago, during the anniversary, to be mentioned in the White House's Twitter message, the President's official communicator of the most powerful state of the world and our greatest ally, that it is an anniversary Okay, here's the The victory of America and Great Britain over German Nazism. Well, as a live winner, as well as those who contributed to the victory, there was a lot more. Unfortunately, despite appeals from many parts of the world, the White House did not correct this. So, all the more so, I think that this type of initiative, our initiative, in the form of a resolution is very timely and necessary. As to which version to choose, I strongly agree with the decision of the Legislative Commission and I will briefly state why. The project of the honourable Senator Czerwinski actually puts it here. It's just a reparation request. Well, three years ago, when this propaganda topic began to be used regularly by the ruling PiS, especially in the Seym by Mr Mularczyk, one could think that perhaps there is still some material of real international policy in this. Although the lawyers were right from the start. on the fact that the chances of obtaining real compensation or reparations by the Polish state after the Polish People's Republic resigned from the reparations which the Soviet Union accepted on our behalf... At this point, those odds are actually gone. But I repeat, as many as 3 years ago it was possible to have delusions that this is about some real interests of the Polish state or Poles, but at the moment there are no delusions that it is only a topic heated up and discussed, as in this draft resolution, unfortunately for obtaining propaganda internal points. For 3 years the Polish state ruled by the PiS did not only achieve nothing Within 3 years this may be difficult in international relations, perhaps some processes last up to 13 years and longer But she didn't even begin to achieve anything. There are no official reparations notes to Germany. There is no intergovernmental consultation on this. There are no projects of this type of activity. It is only and only, so to speak, a propaganda pic made to make the nationalist part of its electorate harden in anti-German and partly anti-European views. So that I strongly support the shape of the resolution which was presented to the High House by the Legislative Commission. I have one more request for Senator Czerwinski. After listening carefully to the broadcast from the committee meeting, I will repeat this request as the grandson of the man who was murdered by the Germans. To put it simply, he was beaten to death by the Gestapo. The family doesn't know exactly where in which of the Poznań buildings It's probably at Millna's. Or the day it happened. One day the Gestapo just took Grandpa and five days later gave up the body. My grandfather orphaned my father, who was less than four years old at the time. So I ask you to withdraw your words that those who oppose your version of the resolution may be accused of treason. Those were words, Mr. Senator. I listened to the recording and I know that the words of the state treason have fallen. I would ask you, sir, to speak to people who have a different opinion on historical or political issues. I mean, we could be different. He didn't use those words. I ask you, sir, to withdraw these words.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Borusewicz. I understand that in the next performance mode, the five-minute one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u162	Mr. Marshal, you understand. I address the honourable Senator Komorowski, who spoke here and said that... well, he also said to me that I was a young man. That's very good. I'm happy for you. But, Senator, in the 1960s, I wasn't young enough not to be in jail so I wouldn't be put in jail. So this is the first point. The second is that it was enough to listen to Free Europe... and this is also the attention to Senator Czerwiński. You shouldn't have had any secret come up, etc. All you had to do was listen to Free Europe to know who murdered Polish officers in Katyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński came forward as a corrigendum. You're welcome. Your name came up in this debate, so you're absolutely entitled to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u164	It rained many times, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. The first point is that I have been informed that there is also a resolution in the Seym related to the 70th anniversary of the end of the war. There's a very similar sentence there. I've been meaning to. it is about the symmetricalness of these resolutions The Polish Parliament is of the opinion that power cannot pay off to an aggressor and that is why the right and fair claims due to Poland and Poles should be met, which is not settled until today. The same text will be found, of course, if you support it, in our resolution. That's what I'm proposing in my amendment. Let me remind you that she will be included in print 104 X, so you will be able to read and compare both texts. And one more thing, Mr. Marshal. It's important, it's gotta sound like an apos; Putin's propaganda. Well, the first paragraph of the draft resolution tells everything about the hopelessness of this propaganda, and that's because it's telling the truth, by the way, this paragraph is also in this, I'd call it a cunning text. It's about 2 totalitarian systems that started the Second War. This resolution was also aimed at some symmetry, because it was often so that these faults were presented unsymmetrically, which, in my opinion, was not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Komorowski will take the floor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't say that... Yes, you could have listened to Free Europe. And it wasn't just Free Europe, because the radios from America could be listened to, too. And we knew about this Katyn crime, of course. Only that it was in the second circulation, this information was not public information promoted by the authorities of that time. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I would like to say about the previous speech: this is not about illusions, this is not about illusions about reparations, and this must be said firmly, this is about Europe and the world knowing and learning that Poland did not get these reparations. This is not about whether we have any illusions that we will get them or not, it is about Europe and the world knowing that Poland has not been reparated for World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej, but... I'm here, I'm here. Oh, you're remote, Senator. I was misled by the fact that your name and name tag were in the Senate room, which is why I assumed you were absent, but I am happy to state that you are present with us. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u168	Yes, Mr. Marshal, the miracle of bilocation. I listened carefully to Senator Komorowski, who said that Europe and the world should know what had happened. I would encourage Senator Komorowski to take care of the activities of the Polish National Foundation in this area. I'm sure this could be good for all of us so that this foundation doesn't spend money on all sorts of things that I'm ashamed to talk about sometimes, that's all. And I report, Senator, that I will cooperate with the senator to press the Polish National Foundation not to waste money, but to spend it on this type of activity. Secondly, I would like to refer to what the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, was talking about a second ago. Well, I'm not saying that I survived some martyrdom, but I assure Senator Komorowski that at the turn of the 1970s and 1980s, when I was in elementary school, I almost got fired from school just because I told the teacher an alternative version of who killed in Katyn. And that you could say, of course there was some risk, much greater than today, because today there is no risk, but you could also talk about it. Now I'm moving on to this resolution of Senator Czerwinski. In his previous term, even Senator Żaryn after some time, despite the enormous advantage of Law and Justice in terms of the number of senators, came to the conclusion that, however, such resolutions, which are important to all of us, should be mutually agreed in some way and they should go through consensus. In the previous term, twice, or at least once, Senator Czerwiński led to a slight stir even in the ranks of Law and Justice, even in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, his draft resolution, from which, as I remember correctly, the then foreign minister Waszczykowski tried to flee. This was the case for Ukraine. And that's where I'm going... Once again, I must say that Marshal Borusewicz scored this very effectively and very precisely. This is another resolution that, nowadays, when we are in some political situation, strikes completely blindly at our allies. Because And this is Senator Borusewicz's thesis again, which I will agree with. This symmetry of two totalitarians ended with the end of World War II... I remind you of the letter of Polish bishops and remind you that Polish-German relations, probably for the first time in the long history of Polish-German relations... They are one of the best and making a resolution only and only a conquering drum to our animosities I find absolutely inappropriate. Today we are to commemorate the sacrifice that Poland offered, but the victim from several decades ago. Coming out with these political attacks should be based on a completely different basis, because in some sense it removes reflections on the tragedy that occurred to Poland during World War II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the Senators Krzysztof Brejza and Alexander Szwed have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and Senator Marek Borowski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? I'm declaring a recess. Please check that all requests and submissions submitted have already been forwarded by the senators. The break is technical and lasts 3 minutes... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that all requests and submissions submitted have already been submitted. For the sake of order, I would like to reiterate that your written speeches were made by Senator Krzysztof Brejza and Senator Alexander Szwed, and that the legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this meeting of the Sejm. The Senate. Senate, I'm sorry. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Roger that. I can't hear any objections, the motion has been accepted. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances during the examination of the Law on the amendment of certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus is a point On the 8th agenda, she recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of an article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure have put forward proposals for legislative initiatives. These initiatives are contained in senate prints Nos 114, 116 and 117. I ask all senators to be present for this item on the agenda, as we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda to include these initiatives. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The text of the Act is contained in print 106 and the report of the committee In print No 106 A. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure have put forward proposals for legislative initiatives. These proposals, together with draft laws, are contained in prints Nos 114, 116 and 117. I would remind you that the proposals for legislative initiatives are presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the proposals, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the draft laws. In the event of the adoption of the second reading proposals, the meeting shall be held as separate items on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to second reading means that a project is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to speak and report to the committee and to ask the Commission to take the following legislative initiatives: on the draft law on specific arrangements for local authorities related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 virus infection and the spread of disease caused by this virus, print 114; on the draft law on the addition of health care support instruments to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, print 116; on the draft law on the amendment of the law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations and certain other laws, print 117. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on the Law on the amendment of certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Our report is in print No 106 A. Marshal of the Senate on 4 May this year. He addressed the bill to our committee, and we worked on it at 3 meetings on 4 and 6 and 12 May this year. As a result of the work on this law, we propose that the High House adopt the law together with the amendments we have proposed. We recommend that 75 amendments be adopted, which are annexed to our report. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance was attended by a person conducting lobbying activities within the meaning of law and acting in favour of the Polish Credit Management Union. The need to provide this information which I have provided to the State at the moment arises from the statutory obligations and provisions of the Lobbying Act. Our committee, after examining all the issues relating to the main law under discussion, also proposes that the High Senate take the legislative initiative and consider the three additional draft laws that we have prepared and recommend to the High House. This proposal is supported by an article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. We ask you to consider these three additional projects quickly, urgently and at this meeting. These projects are the first to have specific solutions for local self-government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus, namely Senate printing No 114; second project on the addition of support instruments for the health care system in connection with the spread of SARS virus; the third draft law on amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis caused by them and certain other laws. These 3 draft laws are attached to our report. They were prepared by a group of senators, which was reported at our meeting. The projects contain a justification and an assessment of the impact of the regulation and are therefore fully prepared to be allowed to proceed at the present Senate meeting. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this mother law, the basic law that we have examined and to which we have proposed the amendments I have already mentioned, is a very important act. A large part of its legislation offers new opportunities to fight the virus, to fight the koravirus, and to support people, for entrepreneurs in order to counter the effects of the crisis resulting from the pandemic of Coronavirus. So all these provisions that are included in this law, which are a positive action for people and companies, we strongly and decisively recommend. At the same time, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, examining this law, concluded that, unfortunately, once again, for the third time in this law, I am talking about these so-called ones. Antivirus shields, first, second and third The practice of introducing rules that are not linked to the crisis resulting from the operation of the Coronavirus pandemic is repeated. We believe that the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance considers that these provisions should be dealt with in a normal procedure, that such a speed of procedure should not be allowed here mainly because the parties concerned cannot participate in the discussion of the proposed rules. In this way, they have a very small opportunity to make their point, to seek solutions that can be beneficial to them, or to point out solutions that are unfavorable to them. So, when we were working on this bill, we thought that all those provisions that were not directly related to the problems associated with the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus should be removed from this law. This decision has also been taken to make the bill clearer, more understandable, also for those to whom it is addressed, because the weakness of the existing laws and we have confirmed it even at the committee meeting... We held three committee meetings on these laws, and it turned out that in many cases even ministers who came to us and were really represented in committee meetings were not aware that such or other provisions had been adopted earlier, in another law, in the previous shield, in the first or the second. A classic example of this was the issue of dealing with NGOs. And so on. Polish craftsmanship or Cech Crafts Various, Chambers of Crafts in the process of the third shield asked us to hold their meetings, meetings of statutory bodies, even at a distance, using electronic means. We even prepared such an amendment, but it turned out, after the committee meeting, that such legislation had already been introduced in the first or second antivirus shield. At the meeting of our committees, ministers were not able to say that this was the case, and let alone those who were interested. And unfortunately, there are many such regulations. So that these weaknesses are precisely those which, as I said, have their good and beneficial solutions, which none of the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, especially from most committees, deny and should be supported... There were also solutions that we recognised as a majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance They should not be introduced, at least those concerning the limitation of the powers of the Senate. This case would seem minor to some, but as a result of the laws that were passed in the Sejm, the Senate was denied competence... The powers of appointment of the Head of the Office of Electronic Communications have been removed, and this Minister has so far been appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. We treated this as activities similar to those which consisted in taking away the powers associated with the care of the Senate of Polonia. It is astonishing that such records are contained in a law aimed at combating the effects of Coronavirus. There were also provisions that raised at least our doubts, rules on the possibility of transferring personal data to persons who do not have a legal title to this data have only a real interest. In this way, data that should be particularly protected and subject to special care and care may, of course, not be to the full extent, but to some extent... According to most committees they should not be passed on to other entities, especially private companies, etc., because that was the intention of this recording. This was argued by broadening the capacity of the IT society, expanding IT techniques, etc. But I don't think that's the way to bring things up. We have introduced amendments concerning the functioning of the Polish Hunting Union. The Sejm tried to enter records He introduced a record, and we rejected it by means of an appropriate amendment. It concerns the fact that the Management Board of the Polish Łowicki Association will decide on the allocation of significant funds owned by the Polish Łowicki Union with the exception of the General Council of this organization. We have rejected this provision, and we have introduced the principle that the Supreme Council, acting at a distance, using electronic means, may decide that it allocates such funds or other resources for the purposes it considers appropriate. The Supreme Council, which is a fully democratic representation of this organisation, should have such a right. The Management Board of the Polish Łowicki Union had the right to dispose of expenses up to PLN 300 thousand, and the expenditure offered by the national hunters was many times higher. By statutory regulation, they wanted to leave out this organ of this organization. Of course, no one, even hunters, i.e. members of the Polish Hunting Union, denies the possibility or even the need to finance tasks related to the fight against the koravirus. The point was that it is not possible, so to speak, to change the possibilities or powers of the statutory bodies of the various NGOs. Once again in the debate on this law Because such a provision, as I said, was also shown in the previous so-called. Antivirus shields, except that of course it did not concern the Polish Łowietski Union, because here is a special law on the Polish Łowietski Union, we emphasized that all non-governmental organizations in the light of previously adopted regulations can operate, function at a distance and thus avoid situations in which, as a result of such statutory slips, laws are introduced, according to which members of these organizations decide not to act, not representatives of statutory bodies, but some non-statutical bodies, others, external bodies. In this respect, We also adopted provisions amending the rules on the functioning of cooperatives and how to appoint bodies in cooperatives Because it also went far beyond the statutory regulation. We have also introduced provisions on the possibility of legal counsels, the local government of legal counsels. What's the name of the chamber? The National Chamber... ...National Chamber of Legal Counsels. They will also be able to function and operate in their organs at a distance. This type of legislation, like I said, we took together, together... here mostly it was to rule out the rules that come out... Well, maybe not mainly, but mostly it was about rules that go beyond the necessity of fighting the pandemic of coronavirus. I think that would be enough information about the committee's work. But may I add that we have worked in three meetings so as to actually have a thorough look at the records that are in this law. It must also be acknowledged that our meetings were attended by ministers, and actually from almost every area, so the questions and answers were deepened, full of them, which does not mean that the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance agreed with all opinions or with each opinion. In general, however, in principle, the vast majority... of the amendments were adopted by a large majority. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, senators can... And the projects... I've already served it... I was talking about the laws, and I mentioned that these three-- I exchanged them. And we're asking, of course... Mr. Senator didn't just replace them, but he also... I'll remind the senators... I've filed a motion... ...that if we do not complete the procedure for asking questions to the senator by 8:00 p.m., we will not vote on these items until tomorrow. Therefore, I would call for a summary within this point, which we are now starting with, which comes down to questions. Senators can report these questions from the site, they are to be questions lasting no more than a minute. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, and it concerns Article. 14 point 9, which refers to the annulment of the public tender, auction or competition concerning, as I understand it, the 5G frequency. My question is how it relates to the coronavirus. 'Cause I don't really see the connection. As if the senator were so kind. ... More such records are provided in item 11 in the same article. How do you tie this up, Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u174	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, most of the laws we've seen in this case... We simply proposed that they be removed from this bill. Of course, this record has nothing to do with the bill. It could have happened that we didn't even see all these records. Although I would like to say that when it comes to a few things that have been introduced additionally and as if... not as if they were related to the coronavirus, but were clearly more advantageous to the citizens, we thought that we would not withdraw them. But we thought it was bad practice. This should be treated in a different way. Yeah, but you can clearly see the pressure of the ministers to do the so-called ones. shields introduce rules on problems, cases and laws which are not in any way related to the subject matter. And that's the recipe of that kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u175	I'm just gonna ask. I understand that this article has not been deleted, this point 9 in Article. 14. The others at the committee's request have already been deleted. Mr. Senator, if you could just get me out of the way...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u176	I mean, that's what we did... It's possible it's an art. 14 of these points have been deleted. If it doesn't, well, that's the way it is. It's hard for me to answer that precisely right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me ask you a question for the senator, but in the same case. As the senator pointed out, did the representatives of the various departments actively participate in committee meetings in any way? And like the case, a billion-dollar 5G case, a case that in every normal country is also of interest to the relevant services protecting the interests of the state... How did the representatives of Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki's government justify the connection at the committee meeting of billions of tenders for 5G with the fight against the coronavirus? Because maybe these are so hard arguments that the doubts in this matter are simply wrong. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u178	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, our amendments to the article. 14 are in points 12, 13, 14 and 15 of our report. About costs, amounts, etc. We didn't discuss it. We emphasized that these things are not that I would say so bound up... Mr. Senator, I'm asking if the government's representatives have justified or expressed their views on this matter. No, they didn't say anything about this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u179	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u180	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a simple question. Prove to the High House that replacing one law with these four does not bring further chaos. Because you were also talking about chaos during the procession. Does what you're talking about make things easier?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u182	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator is definitely simplifying. That is what we want, that matters that concern a particular industry and issues related to a particular area should be separated into a single law. And therefore the initiators of these laws Senator Frankiewicz, in the case of the Health Service Act, Senator Małecka-Libera, and in the case of the NGO law Mr Klich They said that such treatment was much simpler and clearer. The weakness of these laws, these so-called laws. shields, it's that they're constructed in this way... I have emphasized this on the occasion of previous laws and we have asked that there be as little as possible here in this law. And there are actually far fewer such cases. I mean, you say, like, "I don't know.": Art. 15zzu with some paragraph, paragraph 1, point 2, etc. These are records that are very illegible and incomprehensible. And that case I was talking about here, for example. Polish crafts that would like to work remotely have asked us now, on the occasion of this third shield, to allow them to do so, and it turned out that such a provision had already been adopted in the previous shield. But neither they saw it, nor their superiors, nor their ministers... etc. It wasn't until the amendment came along that we started. We, legislators and ministers look for, check where there is a record on this matter. The point is that this law, which expresses many good intentions, has many good records, is constructed in such a way that it is difficult to find proper records in it. The weakness of these laws is also positive issues, which I am talking about, not to criticize absolutely everything here.The point is that ministers simply put in such a law some sketchy issues with which there is a problem, and this is voted out in the Sejm. And then when we ask what the point is, and so on, it's only then that the man who is responsible for this record and knows what it is, very specialisedly explains it. Well, that can't be the law, and that's what we've been paying attention to. And that's why these three draft laws have emerged. The point is to separate local government cases to separate NGOs and so that the interested person knows where he can find something.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. As I can see, there are no other questions. Therefore, after the interruption which I am about to announce, we will proceed to the vote on the proposal to put these 3 initiatives on the agenda. Therefore, in order to provide each of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators with the opportunity to vote, I hereby declare a recess until 7:35 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 21 to 19 minutes 36]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u184	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. I would like to remind you that before the session was adjourned, the rapporteur, Mr Kazimierz Klein, together with the committee's report, presented, in accordance with Rule 69. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, requests for legislative initiatives. I would like to remind you that, after hearing the Senate's conclusions, it is decided to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. So we'll proceed. ... One second, Senator Hare... There's a delay. Well, before I read it, I... We therefore proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law on specific arrangements for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus. It's print number 114. I would like to remind you that the senators present in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 are voting by pressing the button on the apparatus. The Senators participating in the deliberations are asked to press the button "OK" in order to confirm their willingness to take part in the vote. The decision to take part in the vote will show the voting window with 3 options to choose from: Clicking one of these 3 rows results in the selection mark in the circle on the left. To vote, send your decision to the system by pressing the pass button or the submit button in the top right corner of the window, and approve by pressing the next pass button or submit button in the window that will appear. So who of your pleno titulo senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So what? The vote is over. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Give me the results of the remote vote, because I see the results of the vote in the halls, and I don't see the results of the remote vote. We'll just add them up. Mr. Marshal, can we make a motion on this matter... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u185	I don't think it's the best solution for a marshal to count his votes. The Senate Secretaries shall be appointed and these matters shall be dealt with by the Senate Secretaries. If electronic apparatus fails, then a single secretary should be appointed, who will be able to take stock of the results of the vote in such situations. Mr. Senator, we're just missing voices, and that's why we're waiting. Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u186	I don't see why not, Senator, I can entrust this function to Senator Śvilski. This is... As a surgeon, I'm used to it: you can count You can count on yourself. But this is... Of course, I'm taking your motion into account. I'm gonna ask the senator to count it. I'm just gonna run it down to him. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal is joking about the seriousness of the Marshal... I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Mr. Marshal, there are no votes in the vote. There are no proposals at the time of the vote. What kind of procedure are you in? But you know, Mr. Marshal, the division of labor... What's the Senate Secretary for? Well, all right, but if a marshal takes on these extra duties, you just have to enjoy it. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] You're lucky Fedor hasn't heard from you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That Fedor is not a marshal! [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Speech in the background of the recording]] Mr. Marshal, I suggest we take a 30-minute break because it's too bad to wait so long. They... There's no telling where the others are, which they didn't vote. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] The vote is over. What I don't see is a remote vote, you see it on your screens, and I don't see it on mine. That's the only difference. But we wait. The secretary will report the results of the vote in a moment. Let the marshal say it. He'll give it to the marshal, and the marshal will announce it. Oh, it's showing. And it's fixed. I find that 86 senators voted, 52. in favour, 33 against, abstained 1. [[Voting No 25]] Thank you for your critical remarks. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] In view of... Can I have a moment of focus, please? We're about to announce a recess at 8:00, just like we planned. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has completed the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on specific arrangements for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus. This will be the ninth item on the agenda. We proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: second reading of the draft law on supplementing the instruments supporting the health care system in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, print No 116. I understand we can, Mr. Computers, proceed with the vote. Thank you very much. Who among your pleno titulo senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Mr. Marshal, the problem is that Senator Zdrojewski appears in the results twice. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The vote is over. Please state the results of the remote vote. There's a score. Thank you. 88 senators voted, 52 votes against, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has completed the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on supplementing the instruments supporting the health care system in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This will be the tenth item on the agenda. We proceed with the vote on the inclusion of the item on the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and some other acts - print No 117. Are the IT community ready? Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill mentioned? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 89 senators voted, 53 votes against, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has supplemented the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. This will be the eleventh item on the agenda. Mr. Marshal, I have a question. May I ask? Yes, you're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u187	The discussion of the previous law ended at the stage of asking questions to the Senator of the rapporteur. There was no possibility of asking questions to ministers, and I would like to take advantage of the presence of Minister Gawin in the Chamber and ask questions related to this law. Am I gonna get another chance at this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. It will also be absolutely possible to ask questions to the representatives of the government, except that at the Seniors' Convention meeting we agreed that today we will conclude our deliberations at 8 p.m. It's 7:50 p.m. right now. We can use these 10 minutes, but Mr Schreiber was the first to speak, which I do not see in the courtroom at the moment. Once we resume the discussion on this item, it will certainly be an unlimited opportunity for government representatives to ask questions as well as discussions. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-senat-10-3.u189	A meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of proposals submitted at second reading for the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, at 8.10 p.m. in the plenary room. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the 10th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives will take place on 13 May, Wednesday, at 9.00 in room 182. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 51]]
