ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u1	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Integration is one of our main priorities. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy operates a number of programmes aimed at supporting people with disabilities and their carers. These programmes really are much more and the resources that the Law and Justice Government is allocating to these programmes are significantly greater than in previous years. Let me just remind you that in 2015 this was about 15 billion. My question to the Minister: How many measures are generally available in 2019 and now, because we have the end of the year, in 2020, is reserved and prepared in the Ministry for all programmes for people with disabilities? I would like to remind you - in addition to the specific question that I want to ask, about the care of rest and this programme - that there is also a very large programme - Accessibility+, there are programmes dedicated to older people, seniors, there are support programmes for environments, non-governmental organisations that run occupational therapy workshops, ZAZs, so that there are a lot of these programs. Today, on the other hand, I would like to focus on respite care. I ask you kindly to answer the question of what was the interest of the beneficiaries in this programme, because I know that in September the selection of applications for respite care was completed and what measures the government has allocated strictly for this program, but also - in such a broader context. It is about this programme and the resources that are allocated to other programmes, to support (the bell) people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u2	Thank you very much, Member. I ask for an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Paweł Wdówik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In September this year. the selection of proposals for the transfer of government funds to respite care for elderly and independent carers has ended. The Random Care programme for family members or carers of persons with disabilities - edition 2020 and 2021 is the continuation of the Random Care programme - edition 2019 and edition 2020. The aim of the programme is to support family members or guardians who have direct custody of children with a disability decision, persons with a significant degree of disability and equivalent decisions. The programme is implemented in three forms. The first form is the provision of a rest-care service as part of a daily stay. This can be done at the place of residence of a disabled person, a support centre or elsewhere indicated by a person with a disability or his legal guardian who will receive a positive opinion of the programme developer, i.e. even a neighbour's home, but provided that he meets the criteria that we require from a place providing an adequate standard and accessibility for a person with a specific disability. The second form is the provision of rest services as part of a 24-hour stay. And here we have a choice: either in a support centre or in a facility providing 24-hour care for disabled people, which is entered in the register of the competent voivodeship. The last form is another place indicated by the participant of the programme, except that it must also be accepted by the organisation implementing the programme. And third form: providing a care service by providing family members or carers with direct custody of children with a disability decision and disabled persons with a significant degree of disability access to specialist guidance, including psychological guidance, or therapy and support in the field of care, rehabilitation and dieting. The programme shall set the following limits: a limit of 240 hours in the case of day rest care, a limit of 14 days in the case of day rest care provided as part of a 24-hour stay and a limit of 20 hours in the case of day rest care provided through the possibility of specialised counselling. As far as offers are concerned, 115 eligible entities, i.e. Non-governmental organisations with a statute in which they are registered for the benefit of persons with disabilities and those with disabilities have submitted 157 offers, including 43 offers for 2020 and 114 offers for 2021. According to the submitted offers, the total planned number of participants is over 7200 people. 72% of which are persons with a judgment of a significant degree of disability and 28% are children with a disability judgment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the implementation of the programme, the Minister will allocate PLN 30 million in 2020 and PLN 50 million in 2021 for NGOs. The programme developer may receive financial support for the cost of providing a daily care service of up to 80% of the implementation costs in 2020 and up to 100% of the costs in 2021. Detailed and realistic data in the above mentioned above. the scope, including the number of caretakers for older and independent people, can be found in the implementation reports of the programme for the years 2020 to 2021. They'll be there, they won't be there, I'm sorry. The eligible entities submitted their competition offers by 16 October. We extended the deadline because there weren't enough of them at first. The open competition will be decided by 13 November 2020. In addition, I would like to point out that we allocated PLN 110 million to the provision of care services through and with the participation of local governments, municipalities and powiats last year, of which 23 million were transferred. This year we have allocated 80 million, of which 28 million for the amounts requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, with a supplementary question from Mrs Bożena Boris-Raccoon. Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'll be asking for your answer in a moment. Therefore, I think it's worth the wait. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The 2020-2021 Recreational care programme for family members or carers of persons with disabilities is also addressed for the first time to non-governmental organisations with a statutory record of carrying out activities for the benefit of persons with disabilities and those who carry out such activities for a period of at least 3 years from the date of submission of the offer. Could you answer the question of the extent to which the funding allocated to this programme comes from the Solidarity Fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u6	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister, to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u7	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! This programme is financed entirely by the Solidarity Fund, i.e. all the amounts that I talked about, which are transferred to local governments or organisations, are the resources of the Solidarity Fund. PLN 110 million last year, used 7 million, because 23 million were the amounts that we paid to local governments. This year - 80 million for local governments, 28 were paid out, and 30 million for NGOs. From 13 November we will be paying these amounts. We will see what the real amount will look like, but it seems that this 30 million will not be consumed in full. And for next year we predicted 50 million for local governments and NGOs, with the difference that we are already ready to cover up to 100% of the costs. The important thing is because it can then be an important aspect of analysis for some of you that 100% proposals from local governments have been implemented. So it wasn't like we didn't give it to anyone. Anyone who wanted to get paid got paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question of not counting the contract for the purchase of ventilators and the lack of purpose, economy and transparency when making purchases related to COVID-19 - addressed to the Minister of Health. The question prepared by Mr Szczerba and Mr Ionski from the Civic Coalition. Which of your fellow Members will ask a question? Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to bow down to Polish women, Polish girls who participate in the Polish Women's Strike today. Every day you wake up with some uncertainty, with a fear of life, about the health of your loved ones, with questions about whether the coronavirus will appear or if, when it appears, you will be given the person closest to you, you will find a place in the hospital, you will find a ventilator. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we had data: 1078 ventilators occupied on 1594 prepared. But, ladies and gentlemen, these data must also be considered in the context of contracts that included the Ministry of Health, contracts that came out of which little, and actually very little. So far, ladies and gentlemen, 1041 ventilators have not been delivered from the agreement concluded by Minister Szumowski on 14 April. 1041 ventilators are about as many as the ventilators are busy right now. But most importantly, we are dealing with an example of really extraordinary misfortune, misfortune, but also actions that embarrass and should embarrass the Ministry of Health. So far, the arms dealer, who was a contractor of Łukasz Szumowski, has not returned nearly PLN 70 million. For six months the Ministry of Health has been performing as such a loan fund that allows to power the start-up, which then spins ministerial money - no one knows where, no one knows for what purpose. Minister! What's the score with the arms dealer? With what amount of money has he been behind so far? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will that money be returned? Did you notify the D.A.'s office, the CBA, or did you refer the case to the court? Thank you very much, sir. Are you aware that by not doing this, you are also subject to criminal liability? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u10	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u11	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Pandemic was and is a phenomenon that has challenged not only Poland, but many different countries of Europe and the world. Before the first cases that appeared in Poland, as Minister Szumowski and Minister Niedzielski informed the state, we carried out detailed analyses of the resources that are in the health care system, as well as detailed analyses coming from different countries and testifying to the progress of the epidemic. According to our analysis, these resources, in terms of bed potential, bed equipment or intensive care facilities, should respond to the needs of Poles. But looking at what's going on in Italy, what's going on in Spain... We were aware that such a situation could also occur in Poland. Therefore, the current government, the Minister of Health during the first months of the pandemic, decided to purchase additional equipment that could go to hospitals that would provide care, treatment, intensive therapy for patients requiring specialist support. Therefore, on 14 April 2020, the State Treasury, represented by the Minister of Health, concluded a framework agreement with E&K sp. z o.o., the subject of which was to determine the terms of cooperation concerning purchases made by the Ministry of Health and supplies made by this company. According to §1 of the Framework Agreement on 14 April, the State Treasury represented by the Minister of Health accepted the offer of this company and signed an order for delivery of 1241 ventilators. The delivery of ventilators was to be carried out in several stages. The total value of the contract was EUR 44 427 700, of which EUR 35 108 005 was paid as a prepayment on the date on which the contract was signed. The subject matter of the order were ventilators, as I said, which were intended to serve patients in a life-threatening state. They were respirators of different types, different models, but of course these respirators, in accordance with this signed agreement, were to have all the certificates and meet all the conditions that are laid down in both international regulations - here I refer to EU rules - as well as our national laws. Four types of ventilators were therefore ordered. The first were ventilators in the amount of 200 pieces, which were to be sent to Poland in April - in the number of 25 pieces, in May - at least 50 pieces, then in June - the remaining 125 pieces. The price in euro per ventilator was set at 9 000. Euros. For these ventilators a prepayment of 100% was made. Another type of ventilators, which was covered by this agreement, was the number of 196 units and also the implementation of this agreement was to be stages: in May - 46 pieces, in June - 150 pieces. The unit price of one ventilator... sorry, the total price of these ventilators is 8 761 200 euros, per piece 44 700 euros. Is the money back, Minister? Prepayment of 65% was made and 35% after delivery of each batch. Further ventilators of 200 pieces, then 645 pieces (The Bell) were to be delivered by the end of April and by the end of June and were also covered by prepayments. During the implementation of the contract, this company failed to comply with delivery deadlines and thus the State Treasury withdrew from individual parts of the implementing agreement. After all, the company delivered 200 ventilators, that is 50 respirators from Draeger, one of 45 thousand. Euros, and 150 ventilators, one piece at 44 700 euros. Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: The value of delivered ventilators is 8955 thousand. Euros. Thus, E&K sp. z o.o. was obliged to reimburse EUR 26 348 005. At the same time, the Treasury... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...represented by the Minister of Health, he called on the company to repay the amounts paid under the executive agreement for the prepayment of amounts with statutory interest in case of delays. In connection with WW. cancellations, in accordance with the provisions of the Framework Agreement, were also subject to contractual penalties and orders sent to pay contractual penalties together with statutory interest in the event of late payment. The total amount of contractual penalties charged shall be EUR 3 641 140. The company made... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...return 14 231 200 euro - refunds made in May 2020 To be reimbursed, EUR 11 921 805 plus contractual penalties of EUR 3 641 140, i.e. a total of EUR 15 562 945. Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: According to the letter submitted by the company on 14 August, the company undertakes to repay the accrued advances by 30 October of this year. According to information held by the Ministry of Health, the company has 418 ventilators and 46 ventilators of a different type. It is not excluded that in the absence of sales of the above mentioned above. The respirators will apply for the payment of part of the principal in the form of a transfer of respirators, but these decisions have not yet been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. With a supplementary question, Mr Dariusz Joński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u13	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'll tell you exactly: 73,966,000. Evil, that's what's missing. When we spoke to Mr Szczerba in May and June, Prime Minister Morawiecki said, "Don't listen to the buzzing flies." Szumowski said, "No talk of fraud, money will come back, ventilators will not run out." On September 26th, Mr. Wojciech dies in a hospital in Toruń. Cause: There's no ventilator. A few moments later, this is what is happening at the Bielany hospital in Toruń. There's a shortage of ventilators in several hospitals. You make a decision to increase that amount. There's enough ventilators for seven days today. We hear the Intelligence Agency is behind all this, Minister. The profit from the operation was to be transferred to the operating fund. The surgery went well, only the patient died. This is the biggest scandal in the history of the Ministry of Health. Every dollar should be accounted for. Money should be returned. And if they don't, let them work in the wards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] COVID as part of a court-martial sentence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u14	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u15	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! These ventilators, which were delivered by this company, but not only by it, because at the same time they were purchased and transferred to the Respirators Material Reserve Agency from other companies, are constantly transferred to medicinal entities. If such reports are made, the Minister of Health shall issue the disposition and this equipment shall be issued immediately. I would like to stress one more thing: that the voivodeships, examining the epidemiological situation in their territory, practically every day or even several times a day, decide to increase the number of beds for those patients who need hospitalisation, but also for those who need intensive care, which is also about increasing the number of beds equipped with ventilators. Let us remember that in our country we have about 10,000. beds that are equipped with a standard including, among others, respirators. These are beds that normally function in our hospitals. Some of these beds are voivodship decisions for patients with COVID, but some are still functional for other patients. As I said, these deliveries are being carried out on an ongoing basis, the agency is handing out ventilators. We respond to every need, including those that Members are reporting, because we are in constant contact. We answer your specific questions. This information you are providing us is being reviewed and immediate action is taken so that patients who need specialist equipment, need specialized care, can rely on such care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to another question, also addressed to the Minister of Health. It's a question about the withdrawal of hospitals from prenatal research and pregnancy termination for embryopathological reasons. The question was prepared by club Lewis, members of Krzysztof Gawkowski, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Jan Szopiński, Karolina Pawliczak, Beata Maciejewska, Agnieszka Dziemianiowcz-Bąk, Anita Sowińska and Zdzisław Wolski. I would like to ask Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u17	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! A few days ago, the public learned about the scandalous behaviour of the director of the Bielanski Hospital, who - before the decision of the quasi-Constitution Tribunal was published - used it as an excuse to break the constitutional right to equal access to health protection and benefits guaranteed by Polish law. There was a circular ordering women to refuse pregnancy terms for embryopathological reasons. Thanks to the intervention of Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the Bielanski Hospital withdrew from this decision pointing to unacceptable overzealousness and disregard for the letter of law. Hence my questions, or actually a series of questions about violating patients' rights. How many Polish hospitals with gynaecological and obstetric wards carry out a full package of prenatal tests and pregnancy appointments for embryopathological reasons? How many hospitals refuse to carry out medical procedures or prenatal tests and pregnancy terminations for embryopathological reasons and use what pretexts: judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, lack of doctors who are not guided by religious beliefs in public institutions, but apply to the still secular state and patient's rights, temporary obstructions, i.e. such an extension of the diagnostic and decision-making process, so that legal appointment is no longer possible? All you have to do is look at the hospital's refusals. What has the Ministry of Health done to implement disciplinary procedures to ensure that all patients have equal access to medical services guaranteed by law? Of course, I would also ask for an answer in writing, because somehow I find it strange when I ask similar questions about civil rights violations by public institutions that are guided by private leadership beliefs, I do not get meaningful answers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u18	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's obvious to all of us that life is the most important thing: a child's life, an adult's life, a senior's life. Therefore, the actions of the current government, but also the Ministry of Health, carried out mainly by the Minister of Health, are aimed at ensuring this constitutional right. Ladies and gentlemen! She referred to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which challenged the constitutional compatibility of one of the three conditions which, in the current legal state, functioned as grounds for the termination of pregnancy. I'll remind you that other reasons were situations if the pregnancy came from rape or threatened the life of the mother. And health. Yes, mother's health and life. Such premises, these two conditions remain. The Constitutional Tribunal did not comment on these two conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! As we all know, because we are parliamentarians, the law has been in force since the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment was published. Therefore, today, at this hour, we have the legal status that has been in force for the last few decades. After the signals that you are talking about, which appear in individual hospitals, we have intervened. I would remind you that it is the duty of the hospital, as well as the operator responsible for the operation of this entity in accordance with the law, to ensure compliance with the rules of law. These monitoring activities are therefore being carried out in such situations. As of today, at the Ministry of Health, we don't have a signal that the hospital refuses to perform these procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that, in accordance with the law that has been implemented for several years, we are presenting a report annually to the High House on the implementation of the law. In these reports, we very clearly stress to you what the availability of procedures looks like, how many such procedures have been performed and for what reasons. In the last year, in 2019, which is the subject of the report adopted by the Sejm, it appears that 174 cases of abortion have been performed in the country from medical conditions which indicated a very high likelihood of serious foetal injury. 33 procedures were also performed when pregnancy was a life and health hazard for the pregnant woman, and three cases were because there was a suspicion that pregnancy might have been caused by an illegal act. Ladies and gentlemen! After examining these reports that affect us from hospitals, and in virtually every voivodship, these procedures are reported to the National Health Fund, it appears that most of these procedures are performed due to trisomy, chromosome 21 and broken down with or without concomitant defects. In total, more than 430 treatments were carried out with just these conditions. Of course, a large group of these treatments are also treatments performed due to multiple fetal defects, which do not give a chance to live on their own. You mentioned a prenatal study. Ladies and gentlemen, prenatal studies have been conducted in Poland since 2013 on the basis of a regulation of the Minister of Health in the field of health programmes. I would like to tell you that since 2015, we have increased the number of prenatal studies carried out in women by almost 30%, both to 35 years of age and over 35. We also increased by more than 30% the financing of these operations. Therefore, it is not permitted to claim (The Bell) that we restrict access to prenatal tests. We are currently spending more than 120 million PLN for this purpose. And in the case of any woman who fulfils the condition set out in the programme, i.e. over 35 years of age, but also when the child's or the child's father's health problems occurred during the first pregnancy, or when the child's or mother's father's had chromosomal abnormalities or as a result of a study carried out, e.g. The ultrasound, the KTG, raises doubts as to whether there is no defect in the fetus, is the basis for a very broad genetic examination. We spend more and more money every year for this purpose. This is also very important from the point of view of the corrective actions that are being carried out in our country. What I'm trying to say is that it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u20	Minister, after the extra question, please, okay? 'Cause it's time. I'm sorry. With an additional question from Mrs Beata Maciejewska, club Lewis. You're welcome. [[The envoy keeps a note with a sign on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u21	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you one more thing. In the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, there is no reference to abortion for criminal reasons, i.e. When pregnancy is the result of rape or incest. But from the media reports, that's exactly what... Abortion without borders. You didn't understand. since yesterday. ...a further application to the Constitutional Tribunal. It is intended to ensure that abortion is delegated to women who are victims of rape and incest. I would like to know how many Polish hospitals refuse to carry out the procedure for the appointment of patients who were involved in it as a result of violence or crime. How many people don't say no, but do you use temporary obstruction? Of course, I also ask what the Ministry of Health did (the bell) to prevent such a violation of the law. What kind of procedures is the Ministry planning to implement to secure the rights of victims of sexual offences in the case of a similar application to the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you. What heroes glory?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u22	Thank you very much. The answer will be given to Minister Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u23	Dear Member, as regards these other conditions, which are currently defined in the Act, I have provided this information that, for reasons such as... As regards the number of abortions carried out where there was a reasonable suspicion that the pregnancy was caused by a prohibited act, three abortions were carried out this year. In the following years, they happened one at a time. For example, in 2010 there was not at all, nor was there any execution in 2011. However, in the last 2 years: in 2018 - one case and in 2019 - three cases. So if there are legal conditions, such procedures are performed. Just like you. I said at the beginning that the reports that are addressed to the National Health Fund by hospitals show that there is no voivodship in the country that would not report such treatments in the last few years. These are of course isolated cases, but in practically every voivodship there is a medicinal entity that performs them. Here, too, it should be noted that according to the Act on the profession of a doctor and a dentist, the doctor has the right to apply the so-called. a clause of conscience. If the performance of this procedure is contrary to his beliefs, with his conscience, he has the right to refuse. But that doesn't mean the patient is left alone. In this case, the medical entity or voivodeship department of the National Health Fund indicates where such a benefit can be performed. I would still like to go back to these prenatal studies, because it is very important that not only do we increase the amount of these researches, increase the funding, but in Poland in five hospitals are also performed procedures within the fetal life, which save lives that can eliminate many disadvantages and cause children who come into the world after such surgery to have full chances of good development and future. Such treatments were carried out in our country from 2018 to 2020 421. We have transferred over PLN 3 million to hospitals and the catalogue of these hospitals is expanding. Complex procedures are performed, e.g. cardiology, e.g. treatments in the diagnosis of cerebrospinal hernia, many different treatments that perform in the fetal life either reduce the negative impact of this defect on the future health condition of the child, or cause the baby to be born completely healthy. That is why we do not intend to limit prenatal research, and on the contrary, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said yesterday, we will plan (the bell) to extend prenatal research to support families, to support mothers in situations where such difficult situations of life affect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u24	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is also addressed to the Minister of Health, prepared by the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, on the implementation of the National Oncological Strategy adopted by the Government. The question will be asked by Mr Stanisław Żuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland there are about 1 million people who have been diagnosed or treated with cancer, and forecasts predict that the number of cancer patients may increase by 28% within 10 years. From the five areas of action of the National Oncology Strategy, the most important for patients are: access to innovative therapies, ensuring the highest quality standards of diagnosis and treatment, increasing access to modern medical equipment, the right to life without pain for oncology patients. Patients perceive the Polish oncology care system as hostile and not sufficiently focused on their needs. One of the most important objectives should be to introduce new treatment procedures, including low-invasive dosing methods for medical radiation. Centres and medical entities with such opportunities should be promoted and patients must be given access to these innovative therapies. About 100,000 people die of cancer every year. Poles. So why aren't cancer pandemics announced? The COVID-19 epidemic has led to a situation where the number of deaths among cancer patients will grow more... Mr President, I'm just going to take a moment, if you don't mind. I am so sorry, because Mrs Beata Maciejewska is just leaving. Madam, I would like to tell you that you have behaved very badly. I would point out to you that this was inappropriate. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. How? I'll also refer this case to the ethics committee and see what the phone number is. But how, Marshal? I apologize, sir, for having to interrupt, but... The Member knows very well. I'm going to... Please continue, sir. Are you kidding me? Again, I'm so sorry to interrupt. Marshal, no problem. The COVID-19 epidemic has led to a situation in which the number of deaths among cancer patients will increase more than predicted by mortality. These include: fear of COVID-19 delaying proper treatment, suspension of oncology therapy, temporary closure of troops and hospitals due to quarantine, multiple planned procedures. We're in an emergency. It is necessary to exploit the potential of medical entities (the Bell), which for various reasons do not provide medical services for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients. These bodies should ensure that the actions planned in the National Oncology Strategy are implemented. Therefore, I have questions: How many unused facilities in Poland can provide cancer treatment services in order to increase access to state-of-the-art medical equipment? Why does the National Health Fund not conclude oncology contracts with SP ZOZ, which have an agreement with an independent economic operator for the use of existing and well-equipped facilities related to diagnosis and treatment? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u26	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u27	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for this question, because it is also an opportunity to remind us, above all, our fellow countrymen, who listen to the proceedings, how important are issues related to health care, prevention generally understood, but also cancer prevention, as the case we are talking about. Since, in fact, in Poland, the incidence of cancer is growing very rapidly, little of this, we have indicators that are very worrying to us, and they show that the survival of people who have experienced cancer over 5 years is much lower than in other countries of the European Union, it was necessary to draw up a specific document, a plan, a strategy which, in a systemic, multisectoral way, will show how we are going to fight this very negative phenomenon. The phenomenon, which experts predict, will continue to grow. Therefore, on 4 February 2020, it was adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers of the National Oncology Strategy. As you have said, we have defined specific lines of action there. The implementation of all these segments of the different directions determines the improvement of the situation. Of course, we can focus on one of these directions, but without the multisectoral multi-sector activity of many different institutions, we will not achieve this goal of improving the situation of Poles who have experienced cancer. Of course, issues related to investment in development are very important. They have an impact on the development of modern technologies, allowing access to modern treatments. Yes, these are very important things. We are improving the situation in this area from year to year. We finance more and more newer drug programs to treat specific diagnosed cancers. These programmes are based on the latest world knowledge and are being increased from year to year. Of course, we also make sure that the number of players is increasing. The creation of these entities, their integration into the system must be coordinated. This is why there is a strategy that talks about a hierarchy of structure when it comes to the organisation of an oncology care system. The national oncology centre and regional oncology centres are to be set up - the following entities, which will perform - in cooperation vertically and horizontally - various kinds of benefits to oncology patients. We are building this because so far there has not been an efficient, clear and transparent system. Right now, within the framework of this strategy, for which the government will allocate PLN 5100 million in a ten-year perspective, there will be an efficient system. As regards the entry of operators into the system, it is primarily the procedure laid down in the Public Health Services Act. If competitions are organised, such entities may take part in them. For the sake of patient quality and safety, there are certain criteria which result from the health minister's regulation and from the President's order. These criteria must be established, respected and taken into account when spending public funds. It's about patient safety. I would like to remind you that benefits can be provided by therapeutic entities, entities that have the status of a therapeutic entity. This guarantees that all procedures will be followed there. Therefore, when we talk about innovative solutions, we need to remember that innovative solutions, modern technologies, must be used as part of the therapeutic operator's activities. Of course, medicinal entities may choose subcontractors, sign contracts, but subcontractors must also have the status of a medicinal entity. This is therefore a condition which is a shore condition for entry into the scheme and the possibility of granting benefits. I would also like to stress that, in the case of oncology strategies, we pay attention to very important elements. We stress, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the importance of education and lifestyle change. Without education for young generations, without adult education, without changing lifestyles, even the latest technologies (The Bell), the latest solutions will not make survival rates better than in other European countries. We have a lot of work to do in this regard. There are still many other actions that we want to take in this strategy. If you wish, we can talk about them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. You will be able to answer even after the supplementary question. I invite Mr Stanisław Żuk to ask an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u29	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to show on a case-by-case basis that things aren't working as well as the strategy. In 2014, the Council of Zgorzelski County agreed to a contract with a private investor by the director of the SP ZOZ. It was about having him equipped with two radiation accelerators. Therefore, after discussions with the National Health Fund, the branch in Wrocław... There was a promise, it was said: no problem, there will be no promenades, but we understand that Zgorzelec is far from Jelenia Góra, Legnica and Wrocław, so please carry it out. When the director changed, the attitude changed. Ladies and gentlemen! For 2.5 years the object was standing with two decent devices. After all, not only the scope, but also the quality of this service, the state-of-the-art devices... Unfortunately, there was no contract. Today we have a situation that last week (the bell) the investor undressed it, took the devices and transported them to Romania. Patients from around Zgorzelec will be forced to travel several hundred, several dozen kilometers to other radiotherapy facilities. This is the scandal that we are in the country. Capital's not like that, somebody's trying to stop the competition. You can't do that. It's just that a patient should count. I'm such a patient, and I just can't understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u30	Thank you very much, sir. The additional question will be answered by Minister Józef Rzeczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u31	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand we're talking about a specific therapeutic entity here. I also want to remind you of the universal rules that apply to everyone. The entity that intends to provide benefits and meets, I stress, meets all the conditions, can be selected in the tender procedure. From the moment we entered a pandemic, as you remember... The National Health Fund has been voted out in the High House and has stopped contracting benefits. Only now, in October, at the last session of the Sejm, the Sejm has amended this law and competition proceedings are being suspended at the moment. Where necessary, the fund, after examining the health needs, the distinctness in terms of epidemiological issues... The contracting of new providers shall be taken into account. This also depends on the saturation of the type of benefits in the area concerned. As far as I know about this case you are talking about, it is possible to benefit from such benefits within a distance of about 30 km. I think the contract's done, but I don't want to repeat things here that aren't checked. I will certainly pass this question on to the president of the National Health Fund, and the director who will examine this situation. However, we must bear in mind that these rules apply to all medical entities in the event of a competition, regardless of the title of ownership, because I understand that there is a suggestion here that it is a private entity and the NFZ does not want to finance this. Such a criterion shall not be taken into account. They are always taken into account the needs, the standard which the entity presents and, of course, the periodicity of the announced competition proceedings. But I accept that information. We'll analyze it. The equipment is in Romania, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Question addressed to the Minister for Climate and Environment on Clean Air 2.0 prepared by Barbara Bartus, Waldemar Andzel and Jack Osuch of Law and Justice. The first question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u33	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The 2018 Clean Air Programme is the first and nationwide programme to reduce or avoid dust and other pollutants introduced into the atmosphere by single-family homes. It is a program aimed at natural persons who own or co-owners of single-family homes or persons who have permission to start construction. The assumptions of this program in my opinion were known, are known, because in 2018 numerous meetings were held, some kind of training. The Clean Air programme provides for funding, among others. for the replacement of fixed heat sources, i.e. Furnaces, solid fuel boilers, heating of buildings, partitions of buildings, replacement of windows and doors, installation or modernisation of central heating and hot water systems, installation of renewable energy sources and installation of mechanical ventilation with heat recovery. The grant may be paid directly to the contractor. The minimum cost of funding the project is 7 000. zł. The maximum amount can be obtained is 90% of 53 thousand. PLN, which is close to 48 thousand. PLN under one co-financing. The remaining eligible costs of the project in excess of the grant amount can be financed in the form of a loan, but also only up to the amount of 53 thousand. zł. The amount of the subsidy depends on the amount of monthly income per person in the applicant's household. Since 21 October this year. the selection of applications for the second part of the Clean Air programme has started. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Minister what the state of implementation of the programme is now, what exactly is the second installment of the Clean Air programme and what has been changed in the context of the level of funding for the poorest.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u34	Thank you very much, Member. The answer to the question will be answered by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate, Minister Ireneusz Zosta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your question about the Clean Air programme. I must say that this priority programme of the government, which is connected with fighting for clean air or seeking a better quality of life for Polish citizens both in cities and throughout the territory of the country, with the thermomodernization, the exchange of heating sources, the exchange of window carpentry, the possibility of installing photovoltaic panels and heat pumps, offers great opportunities to improve the quality of life of residents. And the programme achieves excellent results, and we are still faced with such a situation that the huge amount allocated by the government in the perspective of 2018 and 202029, i.e. the amount of PLN 103 billion is not satisfactory for us for the beneficiaries. We have therefore taken action, firstly, with the extension of the programme to the poorest, to those who achieve net monthly income of up to PLN 1400 per head in the household or to PLN 1960 net on the single-person farm. The aim is to ensure that those who unfortunately have less income can also benefit from the Clean Air Programme, with greater support. The difference is that, at the moment, such persons are certified by the municipality, which documents that persons with such income benefit e.g. from the support of social assistance. The municipality also participates, is a partner in this project, in this programme by concluding agreements with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. At that moment, 710 municipalities signed it. The municipalities receive funding for issuing one certificate of up to PLN 100. Compared to other activities carried out by the municipality under government programmes, this is a high compensation for this one-off operation. They can receive funding up to 37 thousand. PLN, which represents a grant of up to 60% according to various conversion factors costs incurred for thermomodernisation, for the replacement of heating sources. We are convinced that with this solution, which came into force on 21 October this year. A vastly larger number of residents, who have not been able to reach the resources of the Clean Air programme so far, will be able to use them to improve the energy efficiency standard of their place of residence. It must also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that an excellent tool has been introduced by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the form of a website which has such a claim form online. This conclusion is also associated with the program "My currents." We can use one form to apply for funds both from the Clean Air programme and from the My current programme. Regardless of this, it is also possible to use a special calculator that has been built into this program. As a result, any interested person can calculate the value of the grant on his own. Also important information is that since 2019 we do not pay tax on obtaining subsidies from the Clean Air programme. Also important information: beneficiaries can deduct from the tax base so-called. thermomodernization relief up to 53,000. zł. Brief information: at this moment, this is the information of 16 October, almost 173 thousand have been submitted. applications for over PLN 3.3 billion have been signed 140 thousand. contracts for the amount of more than PLN 2.5 billion. In addition, as part of the thermomodernization relief for 2019, support (The Bell) to be added to the Clean Air programme is over PLN 3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Clean Air programme is an emanation and an effective dimension of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who adopted air quality in Poland as a priority. The program achieves excellent results, but we also strive to improve it, among others. through the bill that the High Sejm passed yesterday during yesterday's vote. This law, which changes a little bit of the program "Clean Air," is being modified by the program "Stop smog," is being created by the Central Register of Building Emissivity. This gives us new tools. There may still be an opportunity to say so, because these solutions will enter into force within 30 days of the date of the bill being announced after the signature of the President, but it is also very important that we extend the impact of the measures that have been allocated to the Clean Air programme. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. You're gonna have a chance to talk about it, because you're gonna get three minutes after the extra question. I just wanted to say hello. Welcome. I'll be in session for an hour and a half. At that time, I wanted to promise, I won't call the Marshal's Watch, I won't be arrogant, [[Applause]] I won't insult anyone. I'm always very happy to work with you. He didn't rule it out. I won't rule anyone out either. I would kindly ask a Member from my constituency, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, for an additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Clean Air programme is extremely important for the Government of Law and Justice, for the Party of Law and Justice, but in particular for all Polish citizens who have long been expecting it, because it is the largest environmental programme. I have questions. Whether the "Clean Air" programme is foreseen for multi-family buildings: blocks, tenements, etc.? What are the plans for further development of this programme? Is there no disruption in the implementation of this extremely important programme? And if the Minister still had time - to develop the subject of the bill passed yesterday [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stop smog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u38	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer the question, I must immediately link the answer to the law adopted yesterday by the High Chamber, i.e. Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and certain other laws, prints No 655 and No 665. Three important solutions have been put in place. Firstly, an Environmental Guarantee Fund has been set up, which further extends the possibility of making use of the Clean Air programme by people who are poorer financially, who, in fact, have credit capacity but do not have any assets, no collateral to take a loan or loan from the bank. Under this arrangement, commercial banks which formulate their own programmes on preferential terms, with significantly reduced rates, which are dedicated to such persons. This created Environmental Guarantee Fund, which is owned by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, will enable commercial banks to grant these loans on preferential terms. So we're expanding the catalogue of financial opportunities for people who want to improve the standard of their place of residence. The second element. Here I will answer Mr Waldemar Andzel's question in the context of the question about multi-family buildings. At the moment, in the "Stop smog" programme, which has been verified whether it has undergone some modernisation under this regulation, we are extending the possibility of using these funds directly to municipal buildings, municipal resources, multi-family buildings, with entry thresholds reduced from 2% to 1%. Inventory buildings which in the municipality need such a thermomodernisation and the lowest level has been set at 20 in terms of the number of buildings that the municipality reports to the That is not all, of course, because at the moment we are preparing a pilot programme for the time being, but dedicated to municipalities with the largest air pollution. The municipality in which we were recently, in August, I think, at the end of August, with the Minister of Climate and Environment, Mr. Michał Kurtyka, is Pszczyna. There will be a pilot programme in place next year, 2021, which will be dedicated to all municipalities with the largest air pollution - a programme designed to eliminate air pollution by 100% within a maximum of 3 years. the exchange of heating sources for green sources. In addition, it must be said that a very important element in yesterday's bill voted by the High House is the creation of a Central Register of Building Emissivity. It is a tool that will enable the country-wide inventory of thermomodernization needs and resources from the Clean Air programme or other programs such as.Stop smog, partly in combination, because we have the opportunity to apply together when it comes to my current programme, to direct where it is most needed, so that we do not waste these funds, because they are public funds, should be used as best as possible, most effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that these solutions, which are already in place and which will come into perspective... Minister, if you'll excuse me, sir... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: I'm almost done, Marshal, last sentence. ...but I have a kind, kind, kind, and very cordial request for you. If you could take it slow, but not rushing too fast to the end, we'd be very happy. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Mr. Marshal, last sentence. To conclude, I would just like to say that already these solutions, which are currently functioning under the second installment of the "Clean Air" programme, which was implemented on 21 October, as well as those which the High House adopted in the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation, which will enter in about 30 to 40 days, 30 days from the date of publication after obtaining the President's signature under the legislation, as well as those which I mentioned, as part of the actions addressed to cities with the largest air pollution, mainly in Upper Silesia, and here the first city, is already established, as pilot city will be Pszczyna - give great hope of jumping progress in achieving improvements in air quality in Poland. I am convinced that these tools will allow to make more use of this huge pool of funds which the Polish Government has allocated to fight smog, and I will remind you, this is the amount of PLN 103 billion in the horizon of 11 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u40	Thank you kindly, Minister. I wanted to tell you that you've exceeded your time of three minutes, but so brilliant, so fantastic and so full of speech we haven't heard in a long time. Thank you on behalf of the Polish Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sławomir Nitras and Mrs Barbara Nowacka have decided to ask a question about government aid plans for sectors such as gastronomic, entertainment, fitness and wedding, vulnerable to bankruptcy as a result of sudden closure or reduction of their activities in the context of pandemic-related restrictions, as well as planned support for those employed in these sectors. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Olga Semeniuk, whom we warmly welcome. Mr President, you have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u41	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! You will agree that talking about government aid in the context of closed industries, among others. The catering industry, it's either a big abuse or a courtesy of your marshal. I've read what I have written, sir. Yes, of course. Two weeks ago, we asked the government to present a timetable for the pandemic. We've all seen that the situation is very difficult, it's going wrong, that you haven't prepared us for the fall wave of pandemics. We asked you to tell us what you're gonna lock up, or you're gonna lock up. She was carefree. Everything was very good. The Prime Minister says he's got everything under control, he's fought down the coritos. And came last Thursday, when among others. The gastronomic industry, the fitness industry, has learned that you have been shutting them down since Saturday. They were stocked for the weekend, they had parties planned for the weekend. They found out they'd be shutting down in 24 hours. This market is 33 billion a year. 70,000. Restaurants, bars alone, pubs. They say they've generated 700 million losses by September - right now, until September. They'll release 200,000 by December. employees and closes by December 7,000. bars, restaurants, pubs. What do you suggest? You locked them up overnight. Today, the media reports that the National Tax Administration has started, that you are starting to account for and control entrepreneurs who have received first aid. Now those you've shut down every day have offered to be relieved in the ZUS for a month - for a month. The average bar here, in Warsaw, near the Sejm, employing several people, generates costs - costs - at the level of 30 and 40 thousand. monthly. What is aid in the amount of 5 thousand. Evil? What kind of help is that? Over 1,000... Mr. Marczak. Over 1000 companies have already entered the control of the National Tax Administration's shield. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not helping, you're controlling, you're picking up. I expect you to come up with a clear plan, tell me when you open restaurants, bars and pubs. You don't close schools because you say the cost to the economy is huge. And what about the cost to the economy when there are 70,000 in this industry. companies? Please answer me. The owners, the employees of the 70,000, are waiting for this answer. companies. Hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u43	Mr. Marshal, I would also like to welcome you! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I would like to answer, starting with the topic of COVID-19 and the fact that we are operating at an extraordinary rate, quite quickly informing, a few days before, the industries about being in the minilockdown for a while. If the Member has a mobile number for COVID-19, give it to him. We'd be happy to go out with this virus so that it can wait two weeks for us to prepare closed-down procedures. That's the minister's answer? I would like to ask you to continue, sir. It's half a joke, half a joke. I'm answering your diagnosis of the flexibility of the virus itself. This is an outrage. It's nothing to joke about. Are you kidding me? And now the facts from the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. So far, we have supported entrepreneurs within the framework of all crisis shields with PLN 150 billion. Since March this year, we have brought unemployment to the lowest level in Europe. Dialogue of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology... The point is to keep this in mind, too, because it is not you who are dating the largest part of the business community, it is our resort. Monday, October 19th... First you locked up, then you met. Mr President, please don't interrupt me. 19 October this year - meeting with the trade industry. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, either the answer or we can provide such a barter. First you locked up, then you met. And you say you're dating. Mr President, I hope that there will not be any hors d'oeuvres here. But I'd like you to listen to my answer to the end, because you're waiting for... I have a request for you: let's hear it from the Minister. On the other hand, Minister, I wanted to assure you that there will not be any hacks... If you keep your hands to yourself. A little culture. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: Full culture, sir. What can't be said about you. ...because today I'm in session, not Mr. Terlecki. There you go. [[Applause]] Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: That's good news, marshal. That's good news. 19 October - meeting with trade, wedding, beauty, fitness and aquaparks and swimming pools. October 23 - gastronomic industry. 26 October - event, fair, conferences, training and hotel industry. We've met with all the industries. We have adopted the priorities of their actions, as well as the factors that will help and support them in the economy. We have analysed this inter-ministerially, especially taking into account the PFR, the Ministry of Finance and other stakeholders involved. And at an extraordinarily fast pace, we've prepared an industry shield. The industry shield is a support package developed in response to the second wave of pandemics for industries that have been most affected by it. It is a draft law on amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The new instruments will benefit you, ladies and gentlemen, 200,000. companies employing more than 372 thousand. employees. The cost of support will be almost PLN 2 billion. The funds will come from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. The following sectors will be able to apply for support: catering, entertainment, fair, wedding, fitness, retail, marketplaces, bazaars. It is difficult to precisely allocate funds between industries. A number of these industries are interpenetrating, e.g. wedding industry with gastronomic or entertainment. Once again, I stress: this is support at the level of PLN 2 billion. Key support measures are: the exemption from ZUS contributions for November - the condition is that the revenue in November is 40% lower per year - parking benefit for November and a micro grant of 5 000. PLN for micro and small enterprises. The condition is that income is 40% lower. Micro grant for micro- and small... I would also like to stress that we have reduced this criterion in terms of the percentage reduction in turnover: from 75%, which were foreseen in the tourist shield, to 40%. Micro-granting for micro- and small entrepreneurs is intended to cover the current costs of doing business. The grant shall be remitted provided that the micro or small trader carries out an economic activity for a period of 3 months from the date of the grant. These instruments are addressed to entrepreneurs who carry out activities marked with PKD codes as defined in the Act. That's 25 PKD codes, ladies and gentlemen. However, in the case of a parking space, the number of codes in the procedated act is smaller, as some of them coincide with the PKD codes contained in the so-called. a tourist shield. We didn't ask that. The date on which proposals are to be accepted depends, of course, on parliamentary work. Solutions such as exemption from the Social Security Office or parking benefit apply to November. This is what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was talking about yesterday. Importantly, the proposal provides for the possibility of extending these forms of support by means of an appropriate regulation of the Council of Ministers. Decisions in this regard will be taken according to developments. It is also worth noting that for entrepreneurs in difficulty, the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology has prepared a law on the granting of public aid to rescue or restructure entrepreneurs, which complements the anti-crisis shield. The solutions provided for in the Act are addressed by entrepreneurs facing difficulties who are in the course of insolvency proceedings (the bell) or face a threat of liquidation. The aid may only be granted for restructuring operations or liquidity support in connection with the restructuring carried out. In order to help companies in the crisis, 120 million zlotys are available from the budget per year for 10 years. The operator of this assistance is the Industrial Development Agency. Finally, some knowledge from viral scientists. Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Very often there are such accusations: why did you close the aquaparks, why the gyms, why the gastronomy, why at such a rate? The answer is clear: the virus will not wait for us. The virus will not wait for all kinds of economic preparations. The virus is developing not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe. As far as viral transmission is concerned, these are sectors where the largest number of people are concentrated, where we cannot secure the masks in which there are clusters of people. This industry is unfortunately gastronomy. It is not that the Polish government wanted to close the gastronomy immediately, but it wanted to lead to a situation in which, however, this narrow corridor we will move in minilockdowns, but not when the gastronomy is closed completely. Unfortunately, the epidemic situation in the country did not allow us to do so. That's why we decided to do it for a while -- we hope it's gonna be two weeks for now. Let's hope this situation changes. This will lead to a situation where we separate part of society - it is about meetings in pubs, restaurants or cafes. Next time, if there are such questions as. it's about aid plans, it's really very much asking for concrete solutions from you, not just information or questions about why it's so late. Thank you. We'll give solutions, you'll review. That's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u44	Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to remind you that you're about to have three more minutes. This is where I gave you a minute and a half more. We were curious to hear it. Really, Mr. Marshal, with great interest. Mrs Barbara Nowack. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u45	Minister! I must remind you that you are a member of the government, and you are the people who need solutions. And when we bring proposals, you have such a fantastic arrogant way of mocking, mocking and disobeying. So we ask, what have you prepared before? You make fun of yourself, you propose to call the virus, and our question is very simple: How did you prepare yourself? Were there any variants? Have you informed the businessmen? You've brought in a chaotic lockdown. You're shutting down fitness clubs, and dancing schools can work. You've closed the restaurants, but hotel restaurants can work. That's the regular prep plan? You know, it would be even funny, your jokes, your jokes, your lectures, that's all that applies to millions of people working in all these industries, in the fitness, entertainment, event, catering sectors. And that's what you have to say to them? 5,000. PLN per enterprise per month. Is that supposed to help the employees? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where in all this have you lost a very important thing, the labour market? You are spreading propaganda for success here, talking about unemployment at the lowest level in Europe, in the world and how the whole world is jealous of us, and you forget that many people in this industry have also been earning money and that all unemployment does not catch people working part-time, it does not capture these individual entrepreneurs. Where's the man in all this? What is your plan for real helping workers in these industries? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u47	Dear Marshal, Dear High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you've missed part of my speech on support for various industries since March this year at the level of PLN 150 billion. If you want to know how many PKD codes have been included in this, then of course We'll submit it. Preparation of security protocols by the then resort of development, frostbite: first, second, third and fourth in terms of economy, preparation of these industries for frostbite as well as rapid pace of action in the context of the current shield. You're talking about $5,000, and I'm talking about $2 billion. You count by unit, I count by general. And that's the difference between the Member and the Government. Because there's a man, ma'am, not a company, a man. Never in life, neither the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology nor the Polish government ignored entrepreneurs in any way, as evidenced by the trade dialogue, as demonstrated by daily regular meetings with industry representatives who are very eager to meet us. I do not know whether the Member or the Member is happy to meet with us, but they are happy to meet with us. Because you didn't close the circus. They present their arguments, their variants concerning e.g. marketplaces or the commercial industry or the hotel industry. I would also like to remind you that, as far as the hotel industry is concerned, we are putting into practice the transformation of hotels into isolation, which will be an additional financial drive. You too should participate in this dialogue. The government is from decision-making, the government is from presenting various kinds of solutions - full agreement, Madam - but you are from not leading to the situation of street riots, escalation of conflict... Ha, ha, ha! When you closed the restaurants, where are people supposed to meet if they're not on the street? ...only to propose solutions that will burden not only the state budget, will evenly distribute financial resources and accountability. This is the solidarity and social responsibility that we talk about very often to you, and we must probably define it many more times, the responsibility shared between the worker, the employer and the government. That's what we expect from you. We expect concrete point solutions, industry solutions, so that we can go through this worst period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Remind me what your name is, or you'll make a career.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u48	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have learned what Members of the Government expect and what the Government expects of Members. And rightfully, that's what the Seym Hall is for. Unfortunately, there was no answer to the question. Mr Piotr Kaleta from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask about the degree of progress in the design of high-speed railways and the impact of pandemics on the implementation of this project. Mr Marcin Horała will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome, sir. And I would like to thank the Members of the Civic Platform for their presence. Goodbye. I'll see you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're getting some information, and that's where I'd like to start, and that's today at the end of the day. 17 on Jasna Góra - the left-wing flood. The extreme left who pushes the girls, young people who do not fully understand what this is all about, wants to make an insolent attack on the spiritual capital of Poland, on Jasna Góra. Of course, there can be no agreement for such action to take place. We survived the Swedish Deluge, we survived the left flood. But from this place I wanted to address all those who feel the way they feel in Polish, Catholic... I have a request for you, sir... ...to defend Jasna Góra today. It's just our Catholic Christian duty. Because I can turn you off right now and act like Marshal Terlecki. It's the right thing to do, Marshal. Could you just... And your marshal tells me you just said you wouldn't bother. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I remind you of those words. Sir, the situation is... ...in the Seym Room... Mr... Please don't interrupt me, Marshal. You're just here to do the right thing. Something's wrong with you. Mr President, I kindly inform you that you are disabled and can not be heard. So now you will listen to the Marshal of the Sejm who has the same position as Marshal Terlecki. Take care of the question, because that's why you were called here. If you don't want to do it, step out of the podium. You have 25 seconds to ask. There you go. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Therefore, I would like it to sound again: today we must stand up for Jasna Góra... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Don't turn it off. What's that tone? I'm telling you again, you have 15, 13, 12, 11, 8 seconds. [[Game in the O.R.]] There you go. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Mr. Marshal, this is insolence. on your part, what you did because you didn't... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much, sir. That's the left-wing marshal. Thank you very much. You finally feel what it's like. But just so you know, the Marshal of the Left... But I'm signing up for a follow-up question. Sir, but I'll tell you... I don't want you to tell me anything. I'll show you the class. Do you know what it is? Go ahead, come in and ask the question. Do you expect someone from your political camp to do something like that? You need to learn. Come in, sir. But they won't let him. You are the last person I'd like to learn from. Come in, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Minister Horala. We know it's a difficult time, pandemic. All this is felt by the Polish economy. Today we had the opportunity to hear many questions that were going in this direction. Therefore, this key investment, which is an investment very important for the development of the Polish economy... She is very important also during the pandemic period. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Are the assumptions of the timetable set by the Ministry being fulfilled? Does it still work? Minister! I also have an additional question. What does the stage of high-speed rail look like? This is a key thing for me, also from the point of view of my district, the Kalisk-Leszczyński district from which I come. How are things working out right now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Don't overdo it. Sir, you're not gonna provoke me. You just can't do it. To provoke someone, you have to... Sir, you're still... Don't be a jerk, man. Get your shit together. He's always gonna be a jerk. Members, I can handle this, really. I know you can do it, Marshal, but we're enjoying this. Sir, sir, can you be calm? Mr Law and Justice from the Parliamentary Club, please be kind and do not address the Members of the Platform: rude. I'd appreciate that. But he started it. Ha, ha, ha! Minister... Are you the Minister? Welcome, sir. Nice to see you. Come in. We'd love to hear your answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to say that the investment programme of the Central Communication Port in terms of planned expenditures... Excuse me, Minister. I have a polite request for Members of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice not to disturb... And the Civic Platform. ...Mr. Horale. Minister Horała simply would like to answer you kindly and politely. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marcin Horała: Thank you, Marshal. The investment programme of the Central Communication Port in terms of planned investments is in 3/4 of the railway investment programme. Construction of the high-speed rail system, the so-called "high-speed rail system." Speech, this is the reference to the theory of hub and spokes as a model of communication system, which for the country's size and shape is optimal. It is a total of 12 directions grouped in 10 spokes, 1789 km of new railway lines and several thousand kilometers of railway lines, which will be upgraded to increase their speed. This target speed, assumed for the system, is for modernized lines 200 km/h and for newly constructed lines - 250 km/h. We take into account geometry and earthwork, which will allow in the future, if necessary, to increase this speed to 350 km/h. I can say that the COVID epidemic did not interfere with this programme in any way. We even hope that the economic slowdown that will be, paradoxically, maybe... Thus, in times of slowing down, investment is better, faster and easier. Contractors are more often looking for orders, give better prices. It is in times of overheating, when the economy is very busy, it is often difficult to find contractors, or they offer prices above cost estimates. As far as the implementation of the programme is concerned, we have already been through a whole series of scheduled activities. The most important this year was the preparation of a strategic location study, i.e. a form of corridor study for the whole new communication system of Poland. In the course of the public consultation of the study, 140 thousand were reported. Notes. They've all been considered. The overwhelming majority did not include a corridor study, but exemplary lines. These comments will be used at a stage when these developments are prejudiced. The first phase, which has been addressed to the implementation that is currently underway, is the stage of environmental inventory, which is the most important element of preparation for environmental decision. We anticipate the establishment of 531 km of new railway lines. It is mainly about the lines on the section Warsaw - CPK Łódź - Sieradz - Wrocław - Wałbrzych - the border of the country with the Czech Republic, as well as the shorter sections: Łętownnia - Rzeszów, Trawniki - Zamość, Ostrołęka - Łomża. In the following years, further investment processes will be launched. The first stage of such a process is an in-depth public consultation on the preparation of environmental decisions. This will be the time when specific, accurate mileages in the broad transport corridors, which have been defined at the level of the strategic location study consultation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this programme is part of the European Green Order, in the policy of promoting low-carbon transport, in the policy of supporting rail transport, or finally in the same trends that are present throughout Europe, i.e. stimulating the economy, coming out of the crisis through major infrastructure investments. Let us mention, for example, the project of building high-speed railway Prague - Dresden, or other programs of this kind. As Kearney's report, a renowned international audit firm, showed, the construction of the Central Communication Port, the entire communication system, was 95 thousand. new jobs, 80% of which in the construction sector... Yes. ...just at the construction stage, creating this investment. On the other hand, the second part of the report points to the benefits that Poland will bring to the functioning of the new communication system. That's 238,000. jobs in the port itself and its surroundings, 290 000. jobs in the economy, 780 billion gross value added and almost PLN 1 trillion increase in production in the perspective of 2040. It follows that improving communication accessibility, what is called connectivity in English-language literature - there is no good, adequate equivalent in Polish - is now one of the main factors of international competition and success of economies. Thanks to the CPK investment program, Poland can reach the world's first league - there will be a large hub airport, which is an important point of communication on the map of the world - as well as (The bell) on the national level, by improving the availability of spokes, spokes and hubs in the CPK system, or by the railway junction of the CPK will also travel Poles who will want to move from one part of the country to another, not necessarily using the airport. That's the last word. I will say that the largest beneficiary of this system seems to be medium-sized cities, those which are practically excluded by communication, have no rail connections at all or have very rare and very uncomfortable connections. Such as, for example, Ostrołęka, Łomża, Płock, Włocławek, Sieradz or Jastrzębie-Zdrój - they will receive a whole range of fast, good rail connections that they do not have now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the Member have an additional question? Of course. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u53	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would also like to ask the Minister what is the issue of high-speed railways, strictly concerning the course of the so-called. an old igret. If it were a problem... Maybe it's an egg tonight. This is to clarify the issue of the fork in the area of Sieradz, which was also supposed to go towards Kalisz. If it were a problem, I would, of course, ask the Minister for a written reply. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to point out that it would be good if the Marshal didn't have certain emblems on his face that might suggest an increase in the tension. [[Applause]] I'm instructing the marshal. You may not know this, but I'm not surprised. Kara, Mr. Marshal. For such outrageous behavior, exclude from the proceedings. You're not gonna punish me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u54	Thank you very much for your question. We'll ask Minister Horala. Mr President, I wanted to tell you that I wanted to apologize very, very kindly to you if anything in my behaviour affected your discomfort. I'm very sorry about that. I will try not to do that in the future so that the Member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice feel uncomfortable. Once again, I sincerely apologize for my behavior. The Minister has the floor. You're welcome. Marshal, I'll hold you to that. You said that in front of the High House. Yes, sir, because I respect Members and try to create such standards that Poles and Poles who are watching are proud of the Sejm and do not have to watch the guards guarding Members. Thank you very much. Then take off what's on your mouth. You're welcome, Minister, now your voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u55	Thank you. First, to complete another stage of investment, which I did not mention. Of course, there is also a process of obtaining a strategic environmental impact assessment of the entire investment programme. It will be completed as far as possible in January next year, which will allow for the possibility of applying for European funds for all projects from this programme. And there's this first swallow, episode of Chybie - Hawks-Zdrój - the border of the country to which the CEF funds have already been obtained. I am convinced that it will be such a swallow that makes spring, and in the next perspective, we will get a lot of European funding for this programme. Another question to fill in. Today, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers, there is a resolution on the multiannual financial programme of the Central Communication Port, which will provide in the perspective of 2023, i.e. for project work, preparatory work, land buy-out and start-up of investment, the amount of over PLN 13 billion, which is extremely important, without burdening the state budget, there will be no cost or gold for the state budget. The Central Communication Port programme is also, in some respects, a great programme of raising capital from outside Poland, European funds, commercial funds for good investments, which are part of European policy, as well as simply commercially viable, as well as a large hub airport. As for the episode of the old Greek and the surroundings of Kalisz, it was actually an adjustment of our program in relation to these old plans and Greeks, let's call them conventionally: Minister Grabarczyk, it was a shift of the point of fork and Greek to Sieradz. Therefore, in the vicinity of Kalisz there will be talk and communication, very good communication for this city. However, as far as specific solutions are concerned, they will be in the process of prejudicing the course. Now we're in the environmental inventory stage for this episode. Later, this natural stage of environmental decision-making will also be a stage of public consultation, such in-depth, on-the-spot, in municipalities, and the determination of the final course. Thus, at least three options need to be shown until the environmental decision is reached. This environmental decision determines what the final location is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u56	Minister, thank you very, very much. We will ask Mr Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, with which we will join to ask a question to the representative of the Ministry of Finance. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Anna Chałupa will answer. Good morning, Minister. Do we have a call? Oh, there you go, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u57	Good morning, welcome. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, From October begins the new JPK_VAT file with the declaration. One file is intended to replace the declarations that have been made separately so far. Business activity, you know, involves certain obligations on the part of the entrepreneur, especially those of billing, paying taxes. However, frequent changes make entrepreneurs feel insecure, looking for information about new solutions. In addition, checks from the tax office have a negative impact on the liquidity of the company. This applies especially to the smallest companies: micro-, small companies that account for themselves. It is well known that tools are needed that simplify settlements, which make the entrepreneur's operation easier. I ask for this information, it is information that is at least on the Ministry's side, whether this new system will possibly generate benefits on the business side. I ask you to mention what the benefits will be, and whether the implementation of this system was preceded by some information campaign, during which the entrepreneurs were informed in detail about the changes envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u58	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! JPK_VAT with a declaration is an electronic document, which consists of two parts: VAT records and VAT returns. And as you have already said, one file will replace the submission of a separate VAT-7 and VAT-7K declaration with annexes and information from the JPK_VAT file. Taxpayers will start submitting new JPK_VAT for settlement periods from 1 October, which means that in the new formula the first JPK_VAT will be sent by 25 November. The new file will include a set of information on purchases and sales, which results from VAT records, items from the current VAT declaration-7 or VAT-7K and additional data. JPK_VAT with a declaration will be submitted only in electronic version, so this is the first simplification, and it will also be possible to sign with a qualified signature, a trusted profile or authorization data. Upon submission of the JPK_VAT with the declaration, the taxable person will be able to download the official statement of receipt of the data. The Ministry of Finance will provide free tools to help entrepreneurs prepare, sign and send JPK_VAT files with a declaration. You will be provided with: interactive form, so-called. goal, and a new version of the e-micro company application. The interactive form will be a simple web tool that requires Internet connection. It will replace the existing file in CSV format, which was quite uncomfortable, and the form will also be used by taxpayers with foreign counterparties, which is a novelty. As far as the new e-micro company application is concerned, it will allow issuing and saving national invoices, creating VAT records and generating and sending JPK_VAT files. The new version of the application will replace its current desktop version. The application will be able to log in using a trusted profile, e-proof or electronic banking. To date, users of this tool will be able to move smoothly to use the newer version with extended functionality thanks to the built-in import option, data export. So the new tool will also support historical data. As regards the communication channels, the elements of the new JPK_VAT are set out in the Regulation of the Minister for Finance, Investment and Development of 15 October 2019 and developed on the basis of the JPK_VAT scheme, which is published in the central register of ePUAP model electronic documents. The Ministry of Finance on the tax portal's website kept up to date the work on the introduction of a new solution. All information is still available on the tax portal. The latest reminders of the new file were published on the pages of the Ministry of Finance the day before this solution was introduced, on 30 September 2020. Information about a new solution with a reference to the tax portal The Ministry of Finance since the fourth quarter of 2019 also includes information on addressed to entrepreneurs from the level of central e-mail notifications or SMS at the time when we identify any non-compliance in previous VAT settlements. At the same time, thanks to cooperation with the media, information about the new JPK_VAT has been systematically appearing in various types of press articles since the end of 2019. As far as benefits are concerned, the most important benefit is that instead of, as is currently the case, the trader will submit a VAT-7 or VAT-7K declaration separately together with the annexes and the information JPK_VAT will send one JPK_VAT file separately, with a total of two responsibilities. There will be no need to generate two files, submit two signatures, make two shipments and wait twice for the so-called. UPO. This will also reduce the number of tax controls and proceedings and reduce the time taken to carry out controls. Each VAT settlement shall be automatically verified as regards the correctness of the amounts of tax due and charged, without involving the taxable person. That's what's gonna get us this system. In addition, the tax office will be able to verify VAT returns more quickly due to the simultaneous transmission by taxpayers of declarations and detailed information from the records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u60	Thank you very much, ma'am. I ask for an additional question from Mr Kazimierz Smolinski of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Quite in detail, the Minister presented information related to the changes. I remember how in 2015 a uniform control file was introduced by the coalition at that time. At that time he was only on demand, so he did not meet the requirements that are currently in force. I think that the question that this is a simplification for entrepreneurs is clear. On the other hand, if the Minister could also once again benefit from this on the side of the Treasury... Is this the element of sealing the tax system? A single control file just in this double version that has been in force so far, now as a uniform one - or it can be said that it is some element in the future to enter a central invoice register, because I think that's what we should be aiming at. And that's probably the Ministry's idea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Could you give us a closer look? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u62	Thank you, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, the benefits of the electronicisation of the way we make declarations are a huge plus for us, because they will enable us to exclude any risk of entanglement in tax fraud. Taxpayers, entrepreneurs will be protected by it. Providing these free tools to help you prepare, sign and send JPK_VAT files with a declaration, this is also a benefit for the entrepreneurs themselves. They will be able to manage their businesses better. Also, the fact that we will reduce the number of tax checks and proceedings, which means that we will also reduce the time taken to perform checks and checks, is also a breath for entrepreneurs. That way we won't have to physically come to them, so we can operate them remotely. The mere fact of faster verification of VAT returns - money will return to entrepreneurs faster and thus companies will also be able to manage this money more quickly in their turnover. Also the issue of bureaucracy as regards the submission of declarations is that there will be no need to generate two files, to sign two authorization signatures, to make two shipments, to wait twice for official acceptance certificates, that is also the benefits that we all notice. Of course, we will be thinking about further improvements, including the central invoice register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u64	Thank you very much. Now I will ask the Member of the Parliamentary Club to ask Mariusz Trepka for a question on a plan to introduce remote science across the country. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek, will answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u65	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! As we know, from Monday we have remote education in all areas of schools, from primary schools, except classes I-III, to secondary schools and universities. My question is very concrete: What solutions has the government prepared for remote learning in specialized schools, vocational schools and continuing education institutions? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u66	Thank you for asking. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the decision to teach partial or complete remote is always a very difficult decision, and we know that this will never happen without consequences for students of both primary and special schools, pupils with special educational needs who learn in all schools and, of course, for professional and technical education. It is worth noting that almost 4 million people participate in remote education today, i.e. such a number of students do not receive fixed education, while we have 2.5 million kindergarteners and primary school pupils on a stationary basis. Of course, it is worth saying that we did not want to include children with special educational needs, especially those learning in special schools, in special educational centres, as well as MOW and MOS pupils, so we left this to the decision of the director who evaluates the safety of the school in terms of staff. Learning in special schools takes place and this is very important, because 33,000. children with special educational needs learn in 982 special schools. This is very important. I would like to say that we have also made sure that rehabilitation and education, re-educational and educational activities are held, as well as what is important for us - so that we do not stop early support for children at risk of disability or children with disabilities. Of course, here we leave to parents' decisions and decisions of school heads, institutions, so that such activities, the absence of which can result throughout the life of children, are taken with caution, with reasonableness, after assessment of the threat. On the other hand, as far as professional and professional schools are concerned, I have very good news for you, because after our reform of professional and professional training we have a decisive, very important change in trend and we already have 56.5% graduates of primary schools who go to technicians and professional schools, and we see a strong increase in recruitment to professional schools. We're over 17%. graduates who go to industry schools, and we had a moment like we started the reform, that it was about 14%. We also consider that it would be completely different if there was no remote education, that maybe these increases would be greater. However, I would like to say that after the spring lockdown period, the first decisions to return to stationary activities were primarily about practical training. We have de-freezed all practical activities and apprenticeships, in the first place at vocational courses and in the last classes and semesters of vocational training schools. I would like to add that at the time of the suspension of activities in the red zones and in the yellow zones in secondary schools, we also made this decision: in some we went to hybrid, in others we went to remote learning. We have decided that this does not apply to practical classes, to practical apprenticeships. We have a different situation today, and that's why we're going to analyze it. On the first line of bringing children and young people back to stationary education will be vocational schools, especially the last classes before exams and of course the eighth and senior classes. That is indeed a very complex problem. We realise that we cannot limit the curriculum in vocational education, because we cannot, having a specific profession, pass an exam, something in this profession. not know what is responsible for safety, for the quality of the work done. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we are also looking at how to shift exams from January to June, but we will also do so in agreement with school heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. Would you like to ask an additional question? Yes, Mr. Marshal, I have an additional question. Stay, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u69	Minister! What assistance does the government provide for schools in the field of remote learning? Will schools receive additional equipment in the form of computers and tablets? What resources will the government allocate to this aid?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u70	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u71	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because often in public space they are falsified or false information. It is worth saying that the entire government, not only the Ministry of Education, piloted these issues and allocated almost PLN 0.5 billion to equip schools with equipment that is needed, which will help in remote education, but will also be helpful in stationary education, will support it, develop and enrich it. We had two tranches. The first tranche was 370 million under the Operational Programme (Digital Poland) and the Remote School and Remote School+ programmes. Then there was another tranche, as well as almost 370 million. What we've been paying attention to is 130 million for children in foster care. They were computers with software. It's about 130 million. Of course, at the moment, schools are being visited by sets and sets of tablets, almost 40,000. These sets. Now I would like to talk about such a novelty, i.e. about the next edition of the government program By the end of the year, we will spend another 35 million to schools for the purchase of computers and multimedia equipment. We already know, and this is also what the Prime Minister announced, that there will be another 300 million for the purchase of school equipment. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, no remote education will replace normal fixed education. She will, of course, be enriched with our experience, because we all had to go through these quick learning experiences in the virtual world in the case of work, science and communication. This is sometimes necessary, which we also experience in the Seym today, but in school it is really important to contact, socialization is very important, it is important to support children by teachers. That is why we will be watching the epidemic very closely. I would also like to say that we have really been preparing for the introduction of children into schools and possible options since the first decision to suspend stationary activities. We have prepared appropriate guidelines with the health care and health minister, appropriate options that allow the transition to different models depending on the risks. We have supported computer equipment, and we have given the opportunity to adapt the frames flexibly to what teaching will look like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have given a lot of flexible tools to directors with the support of teachers as regards teacher education programmes on digital skills. All the time, of course, we analyze all the comments, we analyze all the doubts. We're trying to keep up the good work. Through the educational information system, it reaches the school heads. In the "Safe Return to School" tab, we have all the information, questions and answers that most often appear, concerning equipment, safety, guidelines, how to drive, how to understand regulations. So that we are at your disposal at any time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u72	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice Joanna Borowiak, which will concern the scale of the exercise of the powers to obtain the solidarity allowance. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed. Member, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the framework of the fight against the economic consequences of Coronavirus, the Government of Law and Justice has prepared and implemented support mechanisms for a total amount of over PLN 150 billion. We support entrepreneurs, employers and employees in all areas. In June, provisions were also adopted and implemented aimed at people who lost their jobs following COVID-19. I'm talking about the solidarity supplement. These provisions apply to all employees with whom the employer has terminated or has not renewed their employment contract and has been terminated. Also in June, the Social Insurance Institution made the first payments to applicants and these applications could be submitted by the end of August. Minister! On behalf of myself and my colleagues, Mrs Lydia Burzyńska and Mrs Joanna Milczanowska, I would like to ask the Minister for an answer to the question: What was the scale of the support given so far to workers who lost their jobs following the outbreak of Coronavirus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u74	Thank you very much, Member. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for this question concerning the functioning of the anti-crisis shield in general, but here in relation to this particular example, which is the solidarity supplement granted to counter the negative effects of the COVID-19, it is worth recalling that this was the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, who submitted this proposal to the Sejm, and the main objective of this was linked to the situation which was in April, May, the situation concerning the labour market. Some experts have said that there will be very high unemployment. That didn't happen, luckily. We still have a stable situation on the labour market today, but then there was also a proposal from the President to provide additional support to those who for some reason they lost their jobs, i.e. those who, after 15 March, when we started fighting COVID-19, lost their jobs so that they could benefit from the solidarity allowance. That was one solution. And there was also a second that people who were on unemployment benefits had a pay-out difference, because the solidarity allowance was 1,400 PLN, and then the unemployment benefit was 880 PLN. That's why it's equal. And it was a good solution, because it also caused those people to have the means to live. With regard to these solutions, which we proposed for the first time, because the solidarity allowance started to be paid by the Social Insurance Institution, it was important that we introduced applications only in the electronic system for the first time in this solution. We have already had experience from the previous months that there have been a lot of paper-based applications that had to return to their addressees because of errors, to the poor fulfilment of applications. We introduced an electronic system through the PUE ZUS, so we had the opportunity to make these funds pay right away. The U.S.S. has also been very committed to helping, establishing trusted profiles. This led to the fact that these actions were taken quite quickly. What is also important, the solidarity allowance was free from any deductions, which means there were no deductions here. It is also important that the solidarity allowance is included in our pension period and the social security contribution is paid out, i.e. here the Social Insurance Institution does so, and the employee - in this case the employee - who is on the solidarity allowance, as in the case of the one who is on unemployment benefit - does not lose on it. I think that was the right thing to do. As far as the payments you have been asking about are concerned, let me just say that... Maybe I'll give you the total number first. By 19 October 2020, 234 000 were completed. payments from the solidarity allowance for a total amount of 313 238 000 zł, i.e. that was the amount of support. Let me remind you that the solidarity allowance was for months: June, July and August. So this is the general data. I think it is also worth mentioning on this occasion one more solution which is involved, because this has also emerged in the debate, that since 1 September, unemployment benefits have increased. He currently amounts to PLN 1200 for those who are on basic unemployment benefits, i.e. between a 5-year internship and a 20-year internship. This is the basic benefit and at the moment it amounts to PLN 1200, i.e. from this amount of PLN 880 unemployment benefits also increased to PLN 1200. Today, people who may lose their jobs switch to unemployment benefits and receive the amount of PLN 1200. But as I said earlier at the beginning, today the unemployment rate for September is 6.1%. It's been at this level for the last four months. So we don't have an increase in unemployment. If we look at Eurostat, the European unemployment base, we are second in Europe with the lowest unemployment rate - 3.1%. These are the general data that you asked for. I am pleased that in this way we could help workers who lost their jobs and, through the solidarity supplement, had the means to function. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. I wanted to tell you that we have had a great success as our country, because within two hours, according to the government, we have shifted as far as the unemployment rate is concerned, for one place, because another minister gave information. But you know that, it just goes like that. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you very much for your comprehensive response, for showing the whole spectrum of help from the Law and Justice Government to those who have lost their jobs as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic for the unemployed. I still have a request to the Minister to indicate what order of support was given in the country, broken down by voivodship and with particular emphasis on voivodships: Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Śląski and Łódź. We are very interested in how much money has been given to our citizens as support in the situation of Coronavirus so that they can cope financially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u78	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as this question is concerned about breaking down the solidarity allowance and payments per voivodeship, as I have already said, the total amount was 234 000. paid benefits for the amount of PLN 313 million. Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship - 12 675 payments for over 16 800 thousand. zł, Śląskie voivodship - 34 thousand, almost 35 thousand. paid benefits for the amount of almost PLN 47 million. With regard to the Mazowieckie voivodship - over 32 thousand. paid benefits for the amount of over PLN 43 million. We also have a breakdown into individual branches of the Social Insurance Institution. Here I will give an example from your district: a branch in Bydgoszcz - over 6300 payments for over 8463 thousand. PLN, Toruń - over 6300 payments for over 8414 thousand. zł. Detailed data, if you wish, will also be sent. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u80	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Minister. Wasn't it nice? Great. But it wasn't without a bite of your marshal's remarks. That's too bad. The marshal's smart, he's got a bit of attention. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Urszula Zielińska and Mr Marcin Kierwiński from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about exceeding powers and aggressive action by the police during the women's protests after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. This question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, represented by Minister of State Maciej Wąsik, whom we warmly welcome. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u81	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We should have added this question: after misrepresentation of pseudotribunal. That's our mistake. Minister! With protesters on the streets of Warsaw for a week I have been women every day and closely observe police action. I'll admit that I'm increasingly able to cooperate with the police, descale conflicts and unload tense situations. The police, who work in extremely difficult conditions of epidemics, increasingly show that they are with citizens and citizens, looking for dialogue, doing much to alleviate conflict situations. And for this I would like to thank police officers and police officers who are in charge on the streets of Warsaw and throughout Poland. At the same time, I have observed many situations that point to a systemic problem. The police are being used as a security company by extreme nationalists. Here's one example, though I have more. Sunday, Krakowskie Przedmieście, in front of St. The cross, the donkey of the so-called. The national guard tells the police to get an older woman out of the podest in front of the church. On the video, you can hear the evidence of self-restraint, but in the end you give up and say, "We can assist, but you guys can handle it. A few men with police support push an old lady down the stairs and throw a police cordon outside the protective staircase. These examples, all the examples I've had in the last few days, I'm going to describe to the Minister exactly in the interpellation. But I have a question, Minister: Is there a right to cooperate with the people at MMA, with the extreme right? Do you agree that the Polish police should be used in such a way by extreme nationalists and thus lose the credibility and trust that they have had hard to build over the past 30 years? If you see a problem, will you take steps by the Minister to prevent such action? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u82	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am indeed representing Minister Mariusz Kaminski, who is in quarantine. God willing, tomorrow the test result will be negative and will be able to return from remote work to direct the resort. I wanted to assure you that Mariusz Kaminski directs the department remotely, with the help of his deputies, he is in constant contact with all the heads of department under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days there have been street protests, accompanied by unfortunately outrageous attacks on churches, on places of worship. In recent days we have recorded 22 intrusions into Holy Masses and disruptions of these Masses. We've recorded 79 devastated with subtitles by pseudo-protectors... [[Game in the O.R.]] We have noted 79 devastated facades, often historic, mostly antique church buildings, connected with worship, but not only, for example. The soup kitchen fence led by the nuns was devastated, and there is a kindergarten next to it, where vulgar inscriptions appeared. There were also attacks on policemen or people who stood by churches to watch over these churches, even last night. It's barbaric, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that 76 people have been detained in connection with these events for criminal charges. Police are conducting more than 100 investigations to determine the other perpetrators of these events - those who offended religious feelings, devastated or attacked the police or other outsiders, as well as those who destroyed property or for example. They jumped over private cars parked in town. There's no law against it. [[Applause]] The police have responded, responded, and will respond, in line with the situation, to all acts of aggression, to all attacks on people, to attacks against churches, to disrupt religious rites. We'll be consistent here. If someone violates the law, sooner or later they have to face the fact that there will be a strong reaction between the police and the state. With a court order, for example. And yours. For exceeding my authority. In this context, Commissioner, I believe that the police's reactions, which you also described, were appropriate to the situation and that the police are acting in an adequate and correct manner. I don't see why we should punish cops. They have to be rewarded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u84	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard something outrageous. She asked how it was that nationals who behaved scandalously beat up a woman in Kraków Przedmieście, and the Minister says that this is an adequate police response. I understand, Minister, that it's appropriate for you that if they hit a woman, the police are standing and not responding. I understand that this is the proper behaviour of the police for you. In other words, the second question asked by Mrs Zielińska is whether you are allowed to do so, on the part of Mr Kaminski, you answer: yes, it is permissible. It's amazing, it's amazing. Minister! The Lord was not invited here to talk about how you bravely defend churches. You've been invited here to tell me if you're gonna draw any consequences against those officers who are out of commission. That's what you can't answer. That's all forms of aggression. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're excused, you're not going to start control proceedings, you're not going to investigate these situations. This is an outrage. But I have to say, I'm not surprised. If someone was convicted by a Polish court, I don't think he can actually draw any conclusions from it, and unfortunately you do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kierwiński simply did not understand me. Because it's hard to understand what you're saying. I was very clear that any aggression would be pursued by the police. Are there any actions... Any acts of devastation will be prosecuted by the police. Whether it's black or yellow or red or white. Are there proceedings or not? But will they be against police officers? Let me put it this way: the police are working, internal services are working and analyzing the day-to-day work of the preventive services. That's all I have to say about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! You don't know what's going on in the ministry. Comedy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, this point is closed. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the availability of gynecologists, gynecological offices, including women with disabilities, prenatal examinations and abortion procedures will be considered at this session of the Parliamentary Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron). I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Marcelina Zasza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Deputy Minister! After the scandalous judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, I request current information from the Minister of Health. You've satisfied your cruel religious fantasies about torturing women. You hurt specific women, specific people: mothers, daughters, grandchildren, sisters, wives and partners. It is something that is currently happening in Poland that has been written out of the hospital before the planned legal abortion procedures due to severe birth defects. They're women who won't be helped anymore and will be forced to have babies with lethal, fatal defects. You sentence women to suffering, to the birth of children who will die in torment. You hurt doctors and nurses, who your sisters, daughters, grandchildren, patients will have to treat inhumanly and humiliatingly by refusing them health care. Because now you want all doctors and doctors to be Chazans. This is a moral fall, a woman's injury, and a trampling of human rights. Patau's syndrome or Edwards' syndrome is shown to lead to lip and palate bifida, small head, lack of eyeballs. Other faults include: Anencephalia, which is characterised by lack or residual brain development, uncranial. Syronmenelia consists of partial or complete growth of the lower limbs leading to bladder underdevelopment, intestinal underdevelopment. The heart ectopy consists of an abnormal position of the heart, which is located outside the chest. These are only certain defects qualifying for abortion before the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. When you publish it, women will have to give birth, give birth to children who develop with such flaws. I would like to hear from the Ministry of Health, what exactly in 2019 were the grounds for abortion. Let the women know what you've condemned them to. Let them know exactly what the conditions were. The point is that they can hear from your mouth what you want to convict them of, what kind of torture you want them to be. For nine months they will be pregnant, which will end only with suffering and death. These are the real fruits of your criminal, misguided ideology. But none of the women will go alone anymore. We'll support them. I would therefore also ask for information on how many abortion procedures have been withdrawn from the delivery of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the findings for which the decision to terminate the pregnancy has been taken. How many children with Edwards and Patau's syndrome did you have to give birth to women? How does the Ministry of Health intend to reorganize a public health care system, composed of medical entities subordinate to the Ministry, to ensure that, in the days of the pandemic of Coronavirus, but also in the days of the barbaric judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, effective performance of the health care provision in the form of abortion in accordance with the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion, and in all three cases, pending the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and after its publication, for the other two reasons? Is the Ministry of Health going to, and if so, when and where, to announce a list of medicinal entities with a contract with the NFZ whose gynaecological and obstetric wards remain open and receive patients to perform the guaranteed health benefit referred to in point 1? How many of them are adapted to the needs of women with disabilities you're supposed to care about? How many of these medical offices, how many of these maternity hospitals are adapted to the needs of people with disabilities? What have you done since 2018 on the availability of gynecological offices? Is that how you care about women? You can't lift a finger. There is virtually no access to gynecological offices in the countryside. It's time to face the women you just hurt and explain to them your cruelty. Sisters, you'll never go alone. We'll always be there for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And those who want to torture women, let them explain it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u90	Thank you very much, madam. I'm handing over the proceedings to my friend, Marshal Peter Zgorzelski. Thank you very much, Marshal. I know, Peter, that you won't call the guards either, you won't be arrogant, and you won't yell at anyone like I do. Because we don't care about women's affairs. There you go. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Please take the floor of the representative of the government, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u91	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Every citizen of our country has the right to live, has the right to health protection, and this right is to be guaranteed by public authority. This is how the Government of Law and Justice has implemented this human right to these values since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October has not yet been published. Therefore, in answer to your question, I would like to inform you that we are currently dealing with the legal situation we have had over the last few decades, so there is no legal basis for refusing to perform such benefits in medicinal entities. These benefits must be carried out on the basis that they have been implemented so far. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be borne in mind that so far health professionals have also had the opportunity to use the conscience clause. If the performance of a specific health benefit was contrary to their beliefs, they had the right to refuse it. Such situations have occurred, but in such a case, persons who had the legal guarantee to perform this type of procedure were informed where these benefits could be performed. Therefore, as of today, we do not have information in the Ministry of Health, how many hospitals, how many medical entities, and whether or not they refuse to perform such benefits at all. Ladies and gentlemen! You're asking about the availability of gynecology and obstetrics benefits. This availability is conditioned by many factors. Firstly, this is territorial accessibility. Here, the National Health Fund plays a major role, which contracts health services in various forms, in different types of products and in different areas within our country, examining the relevant health needs. Recently, in recent years, we have increased the amount of benefits provided just as part of gynecology and obstetrics benefits. It's two-way. First, benefits are contracted under outpatient specialized care, as part of gynecology and obstetrics benefits, but also as part of benefits that have been introduced by this government under the Life Insurance Act. These are benefits such as coordinated care for pregnant women who have been diagnosed with child health problems. The coordinated care of pregnant persons is carried out in three stages: at the voivodship, district level and, by the coordinating centre, at the national level. It is there that women who have learned about the health problems of the conceived child can get professional help, can have research done, are surrounded by psychological and psychiatric care, whose funding according to the indicator is 50% higher than in other cases. These women also have the possibility of performing prenatal tests. Where intrauterine interventions are possible, such interventions shall be implemented in Poland. In Poland, we have five centres that can help children who are conceived with defects. These centers are conducting very complicated treatments, very complicated surgical procedures. This gives children a better chance of surviving. Very often they are born completely healthy or in a condition that at birth allows them to take treatment that will improve their health. These are very important actions that the government is taking. We have not forgotten, either, by implementing the bill for life, about those who have decided to give birth to a child with health problems. We guarantee them pediatric care. A network of children's coordination centres was created, operating at the level of individual voivodships, which care for children, families - this is the problem of the whole family - coordinating the process of supporting these people. So that these actions are implemented (the bell) and financed. In addition, new standards of perinatal care have been introduced that guarantee women access to research, including genetic tests, which are carried out during pregnancy. Appropriate measures may be taken on the basis of these studies. The number of these tests is increasing from year to year. Since 2015, the amount of funding allocated to such studies has increased by 30%. A 30% increase in the number of women who make them. Therefore, by implementing the government's policy of supporting families, women, children who have health problems under the Law for Life, we are implementing a number of actions to improve the quality of this care. We have also not forgotten those families where children are born with a fatal defect. We have launched a network of perinatal hospices in which pregnant women who carry a child with a fatal defect can count on the help of professionals, psychologists, psychiatrists. That's the kind of hospice we have in country 16. They've been gone so far. We also created a hospice for children who operate throughout the country. Over 500,000. PLN is allocated to care in this area. Above all, however, we want to invest in health, create opportunities for development, for the birth of a healthy child. That is why we care about prenatal research, which is being carried out and will be expanded in line with the proposal of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. They will be expanded and we will do everything we can to exploit the scientific, clinical potential that is developing very well in Poland to support unborn children. When it comes to procedures performed during fetal life, we do more than 400 treatments on a national scale. These are very complicated procedures, often cardiological or e.g. performed in children with spinal/cerebral hernia. These are treatments that guarantee the well-being of these children. We're putting extra resources on it. As for the availability of gynecologists and their number... You are asking what the situation is with the medical staff. Ladies and gentlemen, in our time, I have already said this several times, we have increased the number of medical schools where we educate doctors. Since 2015, seven new universities have been established, which have been educated in medical faculties. That's an average of 2,000. more graduates than it was six, seven or eight years ago. The doctor's training process takes a long time and the specialist takes longer. That's why we're dealing with a lack of doctors. That's the problem. All of us. He was created for many different previous governments. We increase the number of places in college, increase the number of residents. Currently, we have 8600 specialists on the national scale. From year to year, this number is increasing. The number of residents on residency is also increased from year to year. This will increase availability. It is also important that we use all resources rationally. As a result, we are expanding the competences of midwives, who are largely taking care of the pregnant woman, carrying out the tasks resulting from the new standard of perinatal care, which has been prepared by the current government. Thanks to this standard, every woman knows exactly what benefits she has, what tests she should have done during the month of pregnancy, and she can demand it. We are the ones who have provided access to benefits. Of course, we know that we are still very much ahead of us. There are many things we still need to improve, to change. These actions are being undertaken on an ongoing basis. The Pandemic surprised us all. It also caused turbulence in the implementation of the family care programme in Poland. But we are taking action to ensure that those in need of support, women with a difficult pregnancy, have guaranteed access to it even under pandemic conditions, so that they have access not only to a gynecologist, an environmental midwife, but also to specialist services, because they will condition the well-being of both children and women. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that MEPs have come forward in the debate. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? Yes. You're welcome. If I don't have any more calls, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister has provided us with a number of information on what perinatal care is like for pregnant women. I would like to remind you that perinatology is a specialization that allows the mother and indirectly the fetus to be treated, but also in the case of various direct medical conditions, directly treating the fetus, as the Minister said. I would also like to point out that thanks to miniaturization, thanks to huge progress in the so-called. Medical technology, thanks to devices such as ultrasound, such as endoscopy, can treat children very precisely in the fetal life. I would like to ask you about this progress over the last few years. How many surgeries have been performed, and in what very complicated cases can we treat a child in fetal life? What Polish medicine, Polish gynaecology has been achieved in this area? As far as I know, we are one of the countries that has great success in this area and are an inspiration to other countries. Finally, I would also like to ask you about a very important thing that is already connected with prenatal research itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean the value of health benefits in this regard in the last year of the governments of our predecessors. What is the progress, what is the amount now, and how many of these tests are carried out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u94	Thank you very much. I would now ask Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Abortion in Poland should be free, legal and safe, and thanks to sexual education and access to contraception - also rare. The standard of EU countries is women's access to legal abortion. It is a question of human rights, of the right to decide for itself, of being and living on an equal footing with other citizens, citizens of the European Union. The limitation of the right to abortion is a violation of the right of women to life, health, dignity, privacy, freedom from torture and inhuman treatment. I don't know if you know this, but no abortion is gonna make these abortions less. These abortions will be the same, only that searching for a way out of a difficult situation for a woman will be more difficult and will lead to many tragedies. I have a question for you, Minister. When are you going to expand your prenatal research program? Now there are indications that you're 35 years old or that you're likely to have a fetal injury. When will it be extended to all women? Why wouldn't all women have the right to benefit from this program? In addition, I would like to tell you that women with physical disabilities are also getting pregnant, also having sex, while access to gynecological clinics adapted to the needs of women with disabilities is dramatically low. My question: How many maternity hospitals, how many gynecological offices are adapted to the needs of women with various disabilities, including of course physical ones? Pregnancy in such a woman, even if it is a healthy fetus, often carries a risk of loss of health, a risk of loss of life. These are very often at risk of pregnancy. What's the big deal with women like that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u96	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewicka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The cruel, inhumane, inhumane law that violates women's rights in a drastic way, the rights of half the members of society, the women who protest on the streets, and today also strike by refusing to provide work. President Kaczyński has left no illusions, no compassion, no empathy for women. The law and justice betrayed women, does not treat them as citizens who have the right to live, the right to decide about their private lives, the right to dignity and the right to live without being tortured. What I am saying is not just the position of Members and Members of the opposition or a dozen or so percent, 80% , a society that opposes this drastic law. This is also mentioned by international institutions, among others. The United Nations. Yesterday, the UN legal instruments, the various organisations that deal with human rights, issued a position with which I hope you will get acquainted. They say: Poland has decided to devote women's rights to safe legal abortion in violation of international human rights obligations. The UN says: We are solidarity with women in Poland and their aspirations for equality. We call on the Polish authorities to protect the rights of men and women who protest against it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They also say that the UN is talking about how women are in a difficult situation, especially those that are in a very dramatic economic situation at all. Finally, the human rights that these institutions deal with. They clearly show that women's rights are human rights, and by the Polish government to which the UN is appealing they are being violated. And my question is this: Does the government intend to express all the treaties and international conventions that talk about women's rights, the right of women to self-determination about their lives, the right to decide about their lives and all aspects of pregnancy, motherhood, childbirth and their own fertility? Does this mean that Poland will now become... Time! You're out of time. Awful, awful. PiS Messengers That Weared Yesterday in white, they want to deprive the Polish people of international protection, they want to bring Poland out of international structures, they want to break international conventions. We also want the right to speak because you're out of time. Disgraceful! Shame! And you name yourselves Poles? It's really a disgrace and a shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to bring up two threads. The first is the continuation of Mrs Marcelina Zawisza's speech. Namely, I would like to ask about the rural path of women to the gynecologist, what she looks like today, because according to the last inspection of the Supreme Audit Chamber in this case, women living in the country had difficult access to outpatient gynaecological and obstetric benefits financed by public funds. And while the standards of perinatal care were clearly defined, some gynecological clinics had problems with their compliance. Not all pregnant women have been fully tested by the recommended perinatal care standards, and there have still been clinics that have not guaranteed patients the right to intimacy. The National Health Fund data at the end of 2016 showed that there were no gynecological and obstetric clinics in many rural communities, e.g. in my voivodship in 49% municipalities in every other municipality. Question: "What is the availability of gynaecological and obstetric benefits funded by public funds in rural areas today?" What are the results of the implementation of the NIK audit recommendations in the current ministry statistics? And the second thread that the Minister mentioned today, speaking of the care that you are offering today to sick children. I would like to ask, how many centres of diagnosis and therapy of FAS, alcoholic syndrome, are there in Poland? How many of these have been created, and how much help does it provide for children? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u100	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for peace in the courtroom, not waving a finger and not shouting time, because when the Minister had an extended time of 5 minutes, she was also in the same way as the Members who extended their time, well treated. But there's a limit for us. Please take the floor of Mr Bolesław Piecha, Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm from quarantine. I expected that the discussion would be more like this and be about ideological topics, not about accessibility to gynecology and obstetrics. Therefore, I will try to ask questions that are quite difficult, but about this matter. The first thing is access to these offices. Let us remember that health care, the closest to the patient, that is specialist medical offices, I leave out hospitals, this is a private initiative today, which is just private clinics, centres. In this connection, the question is also to the government whether the government has spoken to local government officials, so that, where there is a real need for such a counsellor, local authorities can also participate, at rent or rental level, to be significantly lower, or through tax issues, some support for this activity, because they have such opportunities and such right. The second question, of course, concerns medical personnel, gynecologists, obstetricians, specialists, because this discipline cannot be translated into residents. Do we have any positive signals in this case? There aren't many of these specialists so far, because 8600. They work everywhere, in hospitals, clinics, high-tech clinics. I would like to hear how many residents prepare for this specialization and when to expect an increased number of gynecologists and obstetricians in Polish health care. And the last thing is, of course, finance, finance and accessibility. It's about research in difficult pregnancies. These are not only abortions at risk, they are not only abortions at risk of premature births, but also abortions associated with the suspicion of fetal defects. What is the availability of prenatal tests? What is the standard for dealing with such situations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there additional funds available for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u102	Thank you very much. We wish you well, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Another area of exclusion of women is the lack of gynecological care for women with disabilities. There's a real drama here, ladies and gentlemen. Women with disabilities very rarely use gynecological research, prevention. Even in situations where women live with their family, more often this family helps and can benefit from such research. Lonely women with disabilities, on the other hand, have great problems with research. They generally do not use them, both for logistical reasons, but also for mental and other reasons. Women staying in centres, social services homes, other centres, educational also, young girls - are not included in prevention and control research. It's just exclusion. On the one hand, this is due to the lack of adaptation of gynecological offices to the needs of people with disabilities, but on the other hand, no one is doing this, no one is helping women to reach such research. Prenatal studies among pregnant women with disabilities can be forgotten. They just don't exist, and nobody cares. So I ask: Why? What kind of government has ideas to change this situation? Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke, and not only yesterday, he repeatedly says: we are reaching the weaker. How does it look to get here? Minister Maląg was very happy with the care of the disabled yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] families. This care is very weak, at the lowest level in Europe. When will this situation change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You insult gynecologists, obstetricians.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u104	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the disgraceful judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, individual factions of the governing camp have been trying to do something to get out of the way to tell the Polish people that nothing really happened. Jarosław Kaczyński put the Church on the face, which is now figuring out how to cut you off. Mateusz Morawiecki and Gowin try to get their eyes off women in their own way and say: to the right of abortion we do not allow and do not allow, but if you are polite... Let's get to the point, Member. ...in your mercy, maybe we'll let you not give birth to fetuses without a head, heart or brain. The Polish right cannot accept that women are not meant to let them do what they have to do with their pregnancy. The Polish people understood that they should have the right to choose the way women have in Europe, as they have in secular countries. My question: What more will the government do to realize theirs we do not allow? The gassing on the streets has already been done. Stopping's all the time. Yesterday, a special forces car hit women on the street in Warsaw. Will you put in a curfew before Friday? Because as you probably know, there will be a huge protest on Friday. Are you gonna hire stadium thugs called the National Guard? What else are you gonna do to keep it from happening? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u106	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mr Mark Pole, Law and Justice, be heard in a remote manner. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a more general question. Well, in July this year. The management of the National Health Fund has declared the establishment of a team to develop a plan to restore the full availability of public-funded and limited health care services, as we know, as a result of the emergence of a pandemic of Coronavirus. The team was also to assess the scale of the restrictions on healthcare provision and assess the risks associated with restoring full availability of healthcare benefits. I would like to ask: Did such a team arise, and if so, are the results of its operation known yet? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u108	Thank you, too. We wish you health. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the question of the hypocrisy of the whole right-wing side of the political scene, because we are aware of one thing. A resourceful person, a wealthy person will not have any problem with abortion in Poland, because by the 9th week abortion is pharmacological and, to be honest, getting this kind of measure is not so difficult again if someone is resourceful. The problem is that what you've done is most likely to hit the less resourceful ones and the ones that actually have fetuses with defects, because in this case the most common diagnosis is much later, the most common diagnosis is not until the 9th week, only 16, 20 weeks of pregnancy. Therefore, this change actually leads to the most tragic situation, because it requires a certain heroism from women. Not everyone has to be ready for this. And nobody's really forcing anyone. It's always a choice and a right, not a... Someone here, sometimes I hear crocodiles tearing over women who poor have to have an abortion, how they'll feel afterwards. It's their choice. It's their choice. They are most often adult, aware and in a situation of dramatic elections. On the other hand, I wanted to talk about something completely different, even the opposite. I wanted to ask you what it looks like because I have a set of two programs here. This is an in vitro programme, which was used in 2013 and which cost 244 million - 19.6 thousand. The couples benefited, 22,000 were born. Kids, it was 1,13 kids a couple. And we have a procreation program, which PiS proposed, a procreation programme in the years 2016 and 2019 - 46 million, 5,7 thousand. couples covered by this programme, 294 pregnancies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yeah, you're not wrong, 294 pregnancies, which means 0.05's pregnant with a couple. I'd like to know when you're gonna get your in vitro funding back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u110	Please take the floor of Catherine Kotula, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lethal defects are 80% cases of legal abortions. Poland, a hospital with a third degree of reference. The fetuses die in a newborn corner and an incubator. Wrapped in a blanket, they wait for hours to die. No medical procedures are applied to them, they do not feed, they do not administer anesthetic. Midwives and nurses are waiting for them to die. The fetus sometimes chokes, dies slowly, sometimes a few hours. Sometimes starving, mostly lonely. There are no clear rules in Poland as to how to proceed, and doctors must decide this on their own, perhaps on the basis of the good of the fetus, orders of conscience, religion, fear of judging of euthanasia. CPR? Connect the oxygen? There's a rumor that some doctors operate for a practice that can be useful to children who are better at it, not hopelessly. What are the medical procedures and guidelines for dealing with fatal defects? And are there national guidelines? And are they the same as the ones I cited in the example from the Szczecin hospital? We know there's an anesthetic in Austria, fentanyl. Such measures are not given in Poland. Are you aware that these fetuses are dying this way? Do you think this is ethically moral and humane? Because your lips are full of clichés about morality and dignity. I would also like to ask you about the procedure for women. 2 months ago at the Polish hospital, my friend, the mother of two children in the fifth month of pregnancy, found out that the fetus does not have an educated bladder and kidneys. The moment she got her right to abortion, she got a pill in her hand, and she got a cardboard pool in her hand. She was instructed to go to the bathroom so that she could have a fetus alone, not look at the ground and call the medical staff. That's what you're fighting for. That's what you're fighting for. These are the procedures that apply in Poland. I would like to ask if these are the procedures (the bell), whether this is the standard and whether it has anything to do with the dignity that you talk so much about, arguing the misdirection judgment. It is you who condemn these women to such suffering and deprive them of their dignity and their right to choose. It's what you want, Miss... You're the ones who deprive women of their right to choose. Choice is not a warrant, ma'am. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u113	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Just a few years ago, when I was taking care of perinatal care in the Sejm of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, the perinatal mortality of children was extremely high, particularly high in the region from which I come. The Central Statistical Office states that the rate of infant deaths in Poland per 1000 births was 4.2 still in 2014, and in 2018, these are the most recent data provided by the Central Statistical Office, this rate was 3.8. This shows an increasing improvement in perinatal care for women in Poland, better equipment, prevention programs, availability of gynecological, neonatological and obstetric care. It's getting better over the years. But still - always, because it can always be better - you can do more. And my question to the Minister is this: What further steps will be taken to further improve the quality of care? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u114	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So much for help, and what's the availability of gynecological offices? It seems that many women get to these offices there is no way, because, especially in eastern and southern Poland, this availability often means several dozen kilometers. Madam, this is for PSL Members... Offices open once a week, for a moment, and then there's nothing like... We very much ask you to allow your fellow Member to speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You calm down, you're not... in your troller mood.]] Take care of it. Really. Gynaecological offices are not available for rural women and excluded women. Especially now that your draconian law is being introduced, it is them, these poorest women from small towns, who will be deprived not only of gynecological benefits, but also of access to prenatal research and prenatal medicine. And the other thing. You care so much about children's health and life. So what happened to the baby transplant? Are you aware that the baby is waiting for a 509-day transplant today? 509 days await children for transplant surgery, destroyed by Minister Ziobra in a cruel and strict political way. Children's transplantology in Poland is one of the worst and actually non-functional. Kids are dying. On the Internet there are dropouts of money to help families who have children with cardiac diseases, somewhere abroad and perform transplants because Poland does not provide this because there are no good promotional programs. World Transplantology Days were a few days ago, and what did the Polish government do, how does it do it? Clinic in Krakow, also involved in transplantology, after all closed. Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to help, help where you have to help the poor and the excluded, where you have to help the sick, and stop practicing ideology and fighting a war with women. Give the women a choice. Women will choose wisely, but also give them tools, hospitals and health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The choice is not a warrant, as it rains many times from this bleacher. In countries where there is access to choice, there are fewer abortion procedures than in countries where this choice is prohibited. We all know that, but the PiS state is pretending you don't know it. And you pretend that you do not know that since access to abortion has been limited, more than 4 million of these procedures have been performed in Poland. I've got questions about access and prenatal research and prenatal research after that sentence. pseudotribunal will enter into force. There's no pseudo... Here we have heard a lot of beautiful words from the Minister... I'm so sorry. I wanted to ask both the Member and the Member to allow her to finish her speech. Really, she was straightening up the lies. How does the government intend to prevent public health care institutions from refusing prenatal testing when they fear that they intend to instigate illegal abortion procedures when these tests show a fatal defect in the foetus? How are you going to counteract it? In public institutions, whether in private with a contract signed with the NFZ or in public hospitals, doctors should not be employed who wish to follow a clause of conscience and refuse legal procedures because it does not agree with their conscience. There is nothing to prevent doctors who are guided by a clause of conscience from operating in Catholic health centres (the Bell), but public health institutions should not employ such people. I wanted to ask how many treatments were performed in Poland, and especially in Wielkopolska. I'm almost done. I'm a messenger from Poznan. How many abortions were there when the fetus was at risk of a fatal defect? How many studies and how many measures are envisaged, and this is what the Minister said, next year for prenatal research? How many tests will be carried out in Wielkopolska? One last remark. You speak beautifully of perinatal hospices. There is nothing to prevent Catholics or those who choose to be born from using these hospices. But it can't be that you're forcing women to use these hospices. Women who do not want to give birth to a child who will die in suffering should have access to abortion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u118	Here you go, Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u119	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state implementing the principles of social justice. That's what Art says. 2 constitutions. Interesting. Our Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the basic law. Art. 30 speaks of dignity, Art. 38 speaks of the protection of life, that life is the highest good. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Opposite! Total Opposite! You have been elected to the Polish Sejm to represent Poles and Poles, and you are giving us all hell. You bring people, young people into the streets, under false slogans... I mean, you guys are the ones who brought it out. ...scaring them, declaring war on the Polish state, Poles, in the name of what? Coward Kaczyński... In the name of so-called legal abortion? Are you interested in anything these young women who will make someday maybe consciously decide that they can become mothers? It's a pseudotribunal... Kaczyński's social discovery brings out young people... Ladies and gentlemen! The problems that can happen when you're pregnant have always happened. I'm from the village. I know how much access I had to the gynecologist when I was pregnant. I know that, and all the worries, the worries, I get it. And that's what we should be working on -- to help to help, not to encourage crime, to look for travel abroad. Keep your voice What do you mean, we're going to say that those who are richer have better access to a paid killer than those who are poorer because they can't afford it? There are serious problems, there are problems that arise when you're pregnant. But we also have other problems. After all, there may be a healthy pregnancy (the bell) and the baby will be born with cerebral palsy. There are many, many problems. I wanted to turn to the Minister because there are these problems. Of course it's not enough. Last I heard, there's a problem with accessing motor rehabilitation, just for the kids. Are there any limitations, limits, when we have full disability? Could these women, these families, get more help? These are the problems we should be dealing with. Here, today, especially now, during the pandemic period. Do not bring young and young people into danger on the street. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u120	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister spoke so beautifully about women's access to gynecological offices, about wonderful research that goes with the spirit of modernity. That every woman can protect her life and her child's health. But the NIK report clearly says that women's access to gynecological offices is at a low level in the country. A little of this means that in fact, 2% of women perform full pregnancy tests. 78% Women do not do the basic tests during pregnancy, as recommended by their doctor. 20% of women do not even have pregnancy records. So what does it look like when it comes to the availability of gynecological offices, research, care and support of gynecologists for women in the countryside? And please prepare in writing information on the availability of clinics and gynecological offices in villages in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. How many offices are there like care, because it's in your days in the countryside that the most clinics are closed, and there are virtually no gynecological offices. But I'm sure when I get the information from you in writing, I'll know it, and I'll know all the details. My next question concerns the practical effects of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, and the question is addressed to the signatories of this proposal. It's practical. A woman is having a twin pregnancy. It turns out that one of the children during the study is very severely impaired, has a deep defect, even threatens to die in this case. Doctors post-test conclude that if they don't remove the fetus, the other child will die. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And for a woman, this situation is a threat to life and health. Thus, parents - Catholics, deeply believers - decide with their doctors to remove the fetus. Ladies and gentlemen, a healthy baby is born, a happy family. But how, in a situation where the Deputy Prime Minister, the initiator of the whole situation, leads women to fight for their freedom, to decide for themselves, to save lives, human health? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u122	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mrs Monica Falej, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today only 9% hospitals in Poland perform legal abortion despite a signed agreement with the National Health Fund. The right to terminate pregnancy is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland as access to medical services. Abortion is a medical procedure, like any other. However, there are white spots on the map of Poland, where no abortion treatments are performed, such as: In the Podkarpacie. It's not like the fatal defects don't occur in Podkarpacie. Women from this region either travel abroad or perform surgery at the clinic, taking credit, because Poland refuses them the right they have. Are you aware that you will support abortion undergrounds in Poland and abortion tourism? The abortion was, is and will be, only under what conditions and at what price? Why do you sentence women to torture and debt? Because it's more important to have a conscience clause and religious fanaticism? The Minister spoke beautifully about the availability of gynecologists, gynecologists, including women with disabilities. Therefore, I ask for information on how many offices in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship are adapted to people with disabilities. Please inform me how many women with disabilities have benefited from these offices. Thank you very much. In writing. You're not going alone. This information, of course, in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u124	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Tomas Latos, in remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u125	Welcome. Marshal, am I heard? Yes, you're welcome. Welcome. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that emotion, emotion, and emotion were unnecessary in this debate. Oh... I think that this matter is extremely important and really emotional, but we need to be very precise. Therefore, it is also worth mentioning a few facts and not correcting a few. Well, first of all, it is worth saying that when it comes to increasing expenditure on prenatal diagnostics or genetic research, they increased by several dozen percent during the United Right Government. Of course, it is necessary to expand the database of these genetic tests primarily by micro matrix testing, because this is the most modern method. That is also what I appeal to the Minister. It must be said that it is not true that there are issues related to the deterioration of access to gynecological offices for women in the countryside, because it is behind our governments that some tough criteria have been loosened that the National Health Fund introduced, and the offices - I will remind you - are private and are opened in various small towns, in the countryside, in other places by certain doctors, and they should also take care to remove architectural barriers for people with disabilities. Finally, it is worth mentioning two important things that the Members of the Civic Platform have said. First of all, transplantology. It's not like that. There must be donors so that this transplant can be performed. In Poland, we are ready to transplant. Finally, I have to protest on behalf of all the doctors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It cannot be so, and it is not so, Madam, that someone is operating, experimenting on a child who has had an abortion that has no right to live. There is no such thing in Poland, and it is a scandal that someone accuses such doctors of doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u126	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic. I think you left me out. I'm sorry, but there was a deal that... But that's okay, I can... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Bartus said that young women would make decisions consciously or unconsciously. This is a cloud dispute about the legality of abortion - so that all women make these decisions consciously, always consciously and always on their own and that no one interferes with these decisions or deprives them of human subjectivity. Because whether it's secular or religious, it doesn't matter, because secular and religious people have free will and are subjects, not objects. But I understand that, in her upsetness, she said something that she didn't really want to say. It's an expression of fear, fear that there's not much on the streets right now. women of menopause or men in andropauz. Above all, there are young people on the streets who want to make decisions about their fertility and parenthood themselves and consciously. These are their decisions about their lives. They don't want anyone getting in their way. These are the same girls who can't afford birth control pills, they can't even afford to visit a gynecologist, and yet there's always a risk that they'll pay PLN 150.200 to hear only that the doctor has a Catholic conscience and no prescription. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the state's condescending moralization, dividing women into those who are allowed to conceive, and those who are forbidden. Mental health is less important. You can kill yourself, all right? The state will allow you to determine your pregnancy if you have cancer. Is that pregnancy you're telling me gonna make you never have it again? Oh, that's too bad. But apparently, that's what God wanted. Ha, ha, ha! Did they rape you? But what's it to a kid that daddy didn't have the ability to seduce and flirt? Sue him for alimony. Enough patronizing women. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u128	Thank you very much. Did your colleagues at the Civic Coalition agree on anything? Yes. Mr Szczerba now takes the floor? Yes, sir? No, Mrs. Hartwich. Unless you're a marshal, plus I'm... There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u129	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna start by saying that I need to correct something. This is about Mr Latos' outrageous behavior. Mr Latos knows me very well. Already in 2014, he received from me... This is another Member who has received postulates, with which I have even met in various radio broadcasts, and knows the problems of the environment of people with disabilities. This is a Member who knows what our real life looks like. But what happened just now... The PiS state doesn't know what to do with this mess, with what you're doing right now. I'm asking you not to involve our children, the disabled, after 18 years of age... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't bother me. Why do you bother me every time? Because you're not telling the truth. ...the children who are now alive and who are not taken care of. I've got a lot of phone calls from desperate parents who cry on the phone and talk about being in their homes and they can't go out to the store and do groceries because they don't have assistants for these families. I ask: Where is the help for them? Stop pulling our kids into this game of yours. It's not like you're helping us. No assistants, no rehab tours, I keep saying that, and ladies keep yelling at me that I'm telling you the wrong thing. I'm telling you the truth. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u130	Thank you very much. I ask for the floor of Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u131	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Prior detection of foetal abnormalities is possible, among others. due to prenatal studies that have been performed at an early stage of pregnancy, allow the start of treatment in the mother's womb. Prenatal studies are currently being reimbursed for a group of women who have an indication to carry them out. Please inform us whether we can expect legislation to enter into force which will enable all women to carry out prenatal tests without having to meet the appropriate conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u132	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u133	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I have no doubt that women should be guaranteed the right to choose, but I have a question to ask you: Do you even realize the consequences that will result from the implementation of this beastly law prohibiting the removal of a severely ill, damaged fetus? I mean, doctors are just gonna be scared to do prenatal tests. Prof. Matyja, head of the Chief Medical Chamber, said very clearly: "Practically, prenatal examinations will not be necessary. Because if it doesn't lead to anything, it would just be part of scientific research. To be treated. Do you realise how much necessary research is not going to be carried out because of the barbaric laws introduced by you? What will be the practical effect of these beastly laws, the law that has been implemented, precisely because of the freezing effect that this barbaric order will cause? How many dramas will that lead to? To how much suffering? How many kids are gonna lose their chances of getting an effective prenatal treatment? When I was pregnant and trembling about my child's health, I wanted to do a prenatal examination and I was denied this examination, saying simply, "Why are you?" Why do you need a prenatal exam? What are you gonna do with that result? The doctor referred to a conscience clause. I changed doctors, but the story continued. In 20 weeks of my pregnancy, my son was found luckily later unconfirmed illness, which would have to be operated on within a few dozen hours after birth, which meant that I would not be able to deliver at a local county hospital, but at a specialist clinic. Is that bad or good? Without the prenatal tests you just froze, I wouldn't even have that knowledge. I wouldn't have that knowledge, and my child wouldn't have a chance to live in health. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wouldn't even have a chance to fight for the health of my child, because some religious fanatic wanted to deprive me of that right, and she said, "You don't need prenatal research. No mother, no father will forgive you if the actual effect of this ban is not to perform prenatal research. It's gonna be a deprivation of the right to health, and you're gonna be responsible for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u134	Thank you very much. Ms Violetta Porowska, Law and Justice, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's still a question here about what we've done in the field of prenatal research. There's a question or even a statement that there's nothing left. It's either done or it won't be prenatal. Mrs Zawisza asked what we have done since 2018. I'll go a little further, ask what we've done since 2016. Two thousand sixteenth. But I will also ask you this question: What have you done to... Polish language. ... 2015 in a simple, basic study? This Regulation Minister, I'm asking... 2000 was only once. ...I have a simple, basic, fundamental question: How many ultrasound tests have been performed on pregnant women since 2016 but also until 2015? Mrs Zawisza presented a frightening lexicon of diseases more or less terrifying, including lip split. Is it true, Minister, that most of the abortions that have been performed in recent years were carried out because of suspicion in children of trisomia, or Down syndrome? That's not true. I ask questions, please wait, there will be an answer. You keep saying that lie. I also have an appeal to the ladies on the left, dressed so grievingly that they don't use words that they don't understand. We ask in Polish and no lies. Every moment they repeat: barbarism, dignity, humane. That's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, a barbarian is a person who does not take advantage of the achievements of his civilization, and our civilization is not killing children, including children with disabilities. Humanitarian, that is, for the good of man, respect for his rights... The whole European Union... ...and the right to live... They'll decide for themselves, not the government. ...including people with disabilities. Thank you very much. Then ask Chazan how many abortions he's done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u136	Thank you very much. I don't recall crossing the line with you. That's too bad. I don't regret it. [[Applause]] You don't want an abortion... Remember, Mosinski, you're sentenced to a heyt, dog. Monkey. And who is that? Mosiński, who was convicted by the court for a hat. He's got a conviction. Shall I announce a recess, or shall we proceed? I'm sorry. There you go, Mr Michał Grammar will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A true story, a close friend of mine is a gynecologist. Mrs. Joanna, 29, first pregnancy, 10 weeks. Ultrasound scan shows abnormal fetal structure, suspected head defect. After prenatal examination, diagnosis: no frontal lobe, multihydraulic syndrome, no kidney, no nasal bone, no letal defect. The amniocentesis will probably confirm this result, certainly close to 100%, 99.7%. My question, please answer in writing: What after the so-called. the so-called judgment. You want the Constitutional Court to do doctors in such cases? Second line. Today, prenatal research, which has already been discussed here, is being reimbursed in special cases. Question: "Is it after this so-called. Are you able to guarantee that this refund will remain, that no one will come up with an idea to take it and thus deprive a woman of the possibility of carrying out prenatal tests? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u138	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Rychlik, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before the question is asked, it is impossible not to refer to what was said here just a moment ago. Every mother, every woman is and will be the subject of our great concern, hence our proposal for prenatal research to be included in... ...the entities... But I'm sorry. Like this... ...all women. I'm gonna recommend prenatal testing for everyone, not just women over the age of 35... Subject, yes, we heard. ...or with complications of pregnancy, so as to recognize the development of life as early as possible. These are the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki regarding the statements made by Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, but she is no longer in the room after the play of the theatre. Minister! The availability of benefits is primarily knowledge of the possibility of taking advantage of such care. Based on the lack of awareness, as regards certain issues, in public space and, unfortunately, among some Members, as we see today, I would like to ask: How does perinatal hospice affect the care of pregnant women? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u140	Thank you very much. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u141	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able to represent my constituents and my voters again today after yesterday's unsubstantiated exclusion. The country's been living in protest for a week. After the pseudo-year TKs are also confused by gynecologists and their patients, who do not know whether they will be able to decide about their health, body or even their entire life. Doctors don't know if they can cure and save patients' lives and if they end up in prison for it. On behalf of gynecologists, women and the entire protesting street today I ask the government of PiS: Why do you bully Polish families so cruelly? For the sake of maintaining the power of one party? As messengers for a week we have been walking on the street to alleviate conflicts, mediate, talk to police and protestors so that Polish blood does not spill, and sometimes it is really hot, because nerves are breaking on both sides. Once and for all, but we're doing the best we can, we're meditating. And now another Member, Mr Kaczyński, who is also responsible for defence and security, calls for civil war and defence of party interests, because the churches are the outbuildings of the PiS party, there is no God, there is tough politics and money, you have led to this. Mr Kaczyński! You've been talking to women for once in the last week, asking them what they want, why do they go out on the streets? Because I've been outside your house three times and I haven't seen you. You're hiding behind the police cordon, behind the bodyguards for our money. If you have something to say to the people, go out on the street and tell it to the women in the face. Every dictatorship will fall one day. It's time for you cowards. [[Applause]] Don't scare me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u142	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak. I would like to inform you that there will still be a chance for Mr Teresa Wargock, Mr Szczerba and Mr Tomasz Latos to be corrected. That's the end of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Members of the total opposition: don't lie, stop lying. I know today, looking at what you've been able to trigger, you're trying to take responsibility for someone else. It's not true that you're marching to calm down the people who are there. You're the one who's instigating it. You take sweet pictures just to be on social media. You're calling for these marches, and there's specific evidence on your social media profiles. Mr. Marshal... Uh-huh. That's not true. And now I'm moving on to current information. It is your duty to provide care for women who are expecting a child. The Government of Law and Justice has shown that this care is exercised. This task is carried out by the 2006 coordination of pregnant women. She is performed at the level of pregnancy, labour, labour. It also includes the care of the newborn. Minister! I have a question. How has care been secured coordinated over a complicated pregnancy? How much money was spent on this form of support for women? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u144	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You took away women, families' in vitro funding program, although 1.5 million couples in Poland cannot have children. You have introduced prescription pills the day after, although in most EU countries it is available without a prescription. The ratified Convention on Combating Violence against Women is an unfulfilled document that you have repeatedly wanted to say. You hit women's organizations that help women who support women who they trust. Sexual education doesn't exist. The conscience clause is fine. The Ministry of Health in commercials encourages reproduction (The Bell) like rabbits. Now with the back door like cowards with the help of the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal you sharpen the abortion law in Poland. When under your rule, Poland becomes a dark garden, when access to medicine of the 21st century is replaced by ideology, when with boots you enter into life, choices, decisions and freedom of women, taking away their ability to decide about themselves, PiS messengers dress in white and the Prime Minister says: I will recommend introducing prenatal research for all women. Minister! How are you gonna do that? When? How? Where? For what? How are you gonna do that? Are you aware that in some voivodships up to 70% The municipalities don't have a gynecological office? Women don't have access to the gynecology office. That's what you do first, access to the gynecologist, to the possibility of doing cytology. This is what you do first, instead of arson, instigate and pour gasoline into citizens' protests, handle the pseudo-Constitution Tribune and put people on their own. First you do it, and then you're surprised that people express their anger. Kaczyński knew very well that women would not give up their rights and freedom by fighting. He knew, and yet he cynically did it. It's unbelievable, it's unforgivable, it's extremely responsible. Take it easy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u146	Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm listening to a pissant who talks a lot about children. You are so worried about children, and do you realize that hundreds of thousands of women, especially young people, are protesting every day in Poland? Why are they protesting? It's not like these young women are protesting because someone told them to go out on the streets. They're fighting for their own dignity. They're fighting for the right to self-determination. But it is with this attitude which you represent, that situation which Jarosław Kaczyński is responsible for and his social discovery, Mrs. Przyłębska, that you will lead to a demographic disaster. Young Polish women today say that they will be afraid to get pregnant, they will be afraid to have children. Do you realize that this situation will have a gigantic impact on the demographic situation in our country? You don't really care, because you're actually using this ideological dispute just for the moment. The only reason you're using him is because you can't handle the pandemic. That's why you're using it cynically. Look at it in the perspective of a few or a dozen years. Young Poles fight for their rights, young Poles protest because they want to get pregnant and have children in peace. This attitude will result in what will happen over the coming years, a demographic disaster. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Teresa Wargocka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current information submitted by the Left, by the Platform, was indeed intended to be an expression of concern for the health of pregnant women - the number of doctors, gynecological offices for disabled persons, prenatal examinations. So? Once again, you're taking advantage of the opportunity to practice politics to make absolutely unfounded accusations. What did the Constitutional Tribunal say in 2008, 1997 and 2020? Exactly the same thing. The right to human life is the highest law. The right to life cannot be compared with other rights and graduated. The right to human life comes from the dignity that all humans have. And the Constitutional Tribunal couldn't say otherwise, you know that. If you were honest and wanted to tell women in Poland, which means that the eugenic principle was removed from the bill, you would tell them the truth. If you are in a complicated pregnancy, if your child can be ill, disabled, the right to life of a disabled person is not differentiated, whether you are an adult or a man in the womb - that is the law. You know that very well. Why is there such a scream? Because you say they've been deprived of their right to abortion. There was never an abortion right in Poland. There was a law on the protection and admissibility of abortion, these three. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If a woman's life is in danger, the doctor has a duty to save the woman. A rape pregnancy is still a reason for this problem to be solved. Please don't lie, don't manipulate. If you tell young people on your shirts that abortion is okay, then I sympathize with these young people, manipulated, morally damaged, those young girls who will have a fear of motherhood. This is a generation that had a religion in school. This is a generation that was raised by liberal leftist power: do what you want. This is the JPII generation. No, because of religion in schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba. Next, Mr Tomasz Latos will give a corrigendum. On this list, we will be exhausted. She will have the time of the applicant's representative. We will be asking for a time regime this time - 5 minutes. With regard to those questions which will not be answered in time, please answer in writing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u151	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Jarosław Kaczyński sat there on 7 January 1993. 27 years ago. Jarosław Kaczyński raised his hand behind the abortion compromise. In a situation where we're dealing with severe irreversible foetal damage, a woman can decide. And today, after 27 years, Jarosław Kaczyński creates the hell of women. Jarosław Kaczyński tells Polish women that he will decide, not them in dramatic situations, traumatic situations, in situations that are psychological tortures. There's nothing more unworthy than those voices coming from this side of the room. Dear Members of the PiS, a child with no brains, a child with no skull, a child without formed organs is not a child with a disability. He's not a kid? He's not a kid? This baby will die immediately after birth. Then why should the mother kill them? And this dramatic decision whether to report this pregnancy or not must always be made by a woman, not you, not Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about prenatal research. National consultant for perinatology Prof. Mirosław Wielgoś says: Some gynecologists will avoid prenatal diagnostics. Doctors will fear that in the event of complications they will be charged with deliberate action and responsibility. The Prime Minister says that he will be developing prenatal diagnostics, and the national consultant of the Minister and Minister says that this is really a withdrawal of this medical discipline. You guys really need to take it easy. Today, it is the task of all of us to stand by Polish women. It's the duty of all Polish men, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's not women's business, it's a common cause, and it's worth fighting for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u152	Thank you very much. We ask Mr Tomas Latos to make a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u153	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm being heard, right? Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It so happens that Mrs Hartwich quoted my words. The only problem is that I didn't say those words. I didn't say a word that was assigned to me. It's a hot request. Let's listen to each other carefully, quote accurately. I didn't say anything I was accused of. By the way, I would like to express my respect for all people with disabilities. Don't lie to me. I bow down. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u154	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Marcelina to be the representative of the applicants for the floor. If she's not in the courtroom, please, Minister. Once again, I repeat my request to preserve the time regime. We've got five minutes to say it. Please give the other points to the Members in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u155	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is a pity that I will not have the opportunity to respond to many of your statements, because they are in many cases missing the truth, and are indeed not true. Ladies and gentlemen! But for starters, I would still like to stand up for doctors, nurses, and midwives. Then say hello to Sasina. You have repeatedly given examples, you have presented examples, you can say, inhumane treatment of a woman giving birth or a small child. That's not true. We have wonderful doctors who will do everything in order to ensure comfort for both giving birth and small children in these difficult moments. Ladies and gentlemen! The indicators speak for themselves. In 2015, I apologize, in 2005 the rate for infant mortality was 8 promili, i.e. Eight children died after giving birth to 1,000 live births. Right now, i.e. in 2019, it is 5 promili. We're seeing these gauges drop. As far as infant mortality is concerned, also from 5 promili fell to 3.8 promila. This shows that caring for children and women giving birth is going in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, many times in your statements you have raised the problem of prenatal research. So I'm gonna say it again because I already explained it. Prenatal research is being carried out in Poland in increasing quantities, we spend more and more amounts every year. The country in 2015 financed prenatal studies of 52 621 thousand. We in 2019 - 78 514 220 zł. It used over 126 thousand. mothers. Prenatal tests are available not only for women over the age of 35 but also for every woman if chromosomal aberrations have been found in her previous child, even if the child's father has been diagnosed with these aberrations, even if, as a result of the ultrasound examination, we are performing these tests, Mrs. Mrs Porowska asked how the number of ultrasound tests is increasing. Almost a third. In 2015 there were 121 thousand, at the moment we have 162 thousand. We increase the number of tests and we will increase them, because they are needed, among others. so that we can professionally help these children so that we can perform treatments that are possible and available in our country and are not available in many countries of the European Union and in the world. These are cardiac procedures, kidney procedures, nervous system procedures. You asked and questioned statistics on the issue of legal abortion. So I'm going to give you the data from 2019 again. With regard to abortions performed due to chromosome 21 trisomy without concomitant defects, this was 271 cases, and with concomitant somatic defects 164. These are, ladies and gentlemen, Down's teams, which means over 430 out of 1074 were abortions of children who had a genetic defect in Down's syndrome. In other cases, these are multiple defects, two or more systems, that is 200 cases. The other cases are isolated. You are asking for specific data on individual voivodships. Yes, we'll give it to you. In addition, one Member claimed that in many voivodships there is no possibility to perform such procedures. According to the Act, these procedures are currently performed, reported to the NFZ and in 2019 there was no voivodeship in which such a procedure was not reported. So this availability was ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have also asked and provided data that are not true, e.g. that the number of transplant procedures in children and adolescents is decreasing. That is not true, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't say that... We've done more transplants this year, e.g. Hearts than in 2015. These data are available and we can show them to you carefully. Regarding heart transplants in children: in 2015 - 4 (The Bell), in 2019 - 9, liver transplants: in 2015 - 22... What's the transplant line? ...in 2020 - It's not the end of the year yet. Every year we spend more and more money on research, prenatal care and coordinated care. We have created a new product: coordinated care for pregnant people. She is guaranteeing specialized care for women who have been diagnosed with pregnancy with health problems. It is in specialized centres, at the level of voivodships, that there are coordination centres - there is the conduct of such a pregnancy plus there can be a solution to such pregnancy, and there is also secure hospital care or palliative care, if required. That's what these centers are for. The coordinated care of pregnant people at the moment is financed additionally, without limit, over PLN 350 million we spend annually to finance these benefits. There was a question about support... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb the Minister's speech. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: There was a question about FAS treatment centers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in Poland we have 13 such centres and there is the possibility of this type of treatment. And one more thing - mental and psychiatric support. That's what I said at the beginning of my speech. Women who have been diagnosed with a difficult pregnancy are provided with psychological and psychiatric care, and these benefits are financed by an indicator (...) additional 50%. In fact, it is in the interests of the provider to receive these women in order to provide them with this care. The question of availability of benefits... Thank you. One more sentence, right? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: The question of availability of benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that we have changed the system of health care organisations. Many hospitals in Poland in lump sums have financial resources for adult gynecological and obstetric clinics, and in these clinics these benefits are implemented at the basic level. In the event of complications found, proven, genetically confirmed, such a woman is automatically directed to the coordination centre which is conducting further therapy for that person. On the other hand, as regards specific questions concerning indicators in individual voivodships, we will answer in writing as you wish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a time-out. 14. Oh... [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 59 hours 14 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. Please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. 442 Members voted. I'm saying we have a quorum. I've got formal applications. Please, with the first motion by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition Club. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the agenda be extended to include a State Security Report. We have Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński with us today. It is you, Prime Minister, who is responsible for security in Poland today. [[Applause]] Yesterday, you called for a court of law to build the PiS militias to be sent against... Lie! Yesterday, you went against... Some Members chant: Lying! Lie! Lie! What are you saying? You're misleading the public. You spoke against Polish citizens yesterday. It is not only deeply immoral, not only outrageous, but it is a serious crime against the nation and against Polish citizens. [[Applause]] Some Members chant: Lying! Lie! Lie! A serious crime you're gonna have to pay for. You're releasing provocators against the protesters. ABW agents run into protesters, there's no charges. At the same time, you take advantage of the situation, you want to press charges against the Members of the opposition? For fighting public television? That they want the truth in Poland? Yes, we want the truth in Poland, we want the truth about the epidemic. [[Applause]] We demand the truth on public television, here, now. Here, Prime Minister, because you are directly responsible for what is happening in Poland, it is your responsibility and your blood on your hands. [[Applause]] Why aren't you responding? What's this? Oh... In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u158	For what? I would like to inform you that, as far as I am concerned, the charges against Mr Nitras relate to the impact of a woman. You're welcome. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u159	As a member of the government, I have the right to speak. What's the mode? In such a way that members of the government have the right to speak at any time. I can't hear you. Well, then I'm gonna have to take it off if I'm... You have no right. No. You can't do that. Put your mask on. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Well... Bring the Prime Minister to order. Madam, please calm down. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a number of lying accusations here, and it's on the basis of such a complete turning away from the truth. [[Applause]] That's not true! Lie! Today we have in Poland, High Izbo, a very high state of emergency due to the epidemic. ...a mask. It's your fault. You're saying you can't hear me, so I'm talking without a mask. This condition excludes (the bell) any public meetings of more than five people. They're coming out of your drive... Yours. ...hundreds and thousands of different kinds of demonstrations. And at the same time, you preach idiotic... You coward, you. Well, you can insult me, but you can't. [[Applause]] How long are you gonna talk? I repeat... Mr. Nitras, I'm warning you. You can't warn me. Then don't count on it to end with one punishment. [[Applause]] Don't count. Then you'll cry here and ask me to spare you. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what is happening in this Chamber shows what your level of political culture is, you can say, state. You're right now in the name of your own business, your own small, dirty business, Nowak's business, [[Applause]] In the name of these interests, you destroy Poland, you put a lot of people to death. You're criminals. That's a lie. You're criminals. He's in Poland... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, you can yell, you can yell... You're a traitor to the Poles. There's a crime to cause common danger. You, calling for demonstrations, are causing this kind of danger. And you're gonna be responsible for that. [[Some Members get up and clap]] Bravo! Disgraceful! Go away! Go away! Go away!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u160	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk with a formal proposal. Vote. But now Mr Krzysztof Paszyk with a formal proposal. Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. Mr President, there is no correction procedure at the moment. He's president of the club. Finally, after this speech, I will give you the floor after the formal proposals. I'll give you the floor after the formal proposals, calmly. But I'm only asking you to correct this request. Mr Paszyk. But please, I'm at the podium. Mr. Marshal, I'm at the podium. But let's just stay cool, okay? In corrigendum mode, please. Yes, you will have the floor after two more formal proposals. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in many Polish houses there is fear and uncertainty. The responsible government today should respond to this and, above all, today, Prime Minister, do not fuel this anxiety, this fear, by introducing uncertainty, by calming the situation. This is what we would ask for as a club of the Polish Coalition of PSL and Kukiz15. Today, Polish parents expect to know when the lockdown will be and whether the children will go to school or not. ...children from kindergarten. Polish entrepreneurs... [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, ma'am. Today they expect to know when and what areas they will work. Today, the Polish society expects the hierarchy of the goals of public authority in Poland. They do not expect, Prime Minister, with all due respect, to fuel this hatred, to provoke behavior that will continue to lead to Polish war, to Polish-Polish war. We appeal to the majority of the parliament, to the Polish government to ease moods, to calm the situation (the bell) and not to fuel them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u162	Mr. Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for interruption and introduction of information by Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, responsible for security. Today, the Special Services Coordinator's spokesman revealed that the limousine driver who ran over two protesting girls was an ABW officer. This shameful situation took place at the protest in Warsaw. They went to bed. Discredited. You have led to the fact that the ABW officers are unfortunately attacking the protesters with premeditated intent. And you with knives and bottles. We should all be responsible for security. I think that such information from President Kaczyński, the Prime Minister - who is responsible for security - would give us a sense that it is not just words, but that it is really about security. And an appeal to Marshal Terletsky. I would ask that you treat the Marshal equally to the Left and the opposition as well as to the PiS. Yesterday, the Marshal's Guard was here for shouting. Tonight, for yelling at the PiS, it should be the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u164	I'd like to remind you that it's not for shouting, it's for blocking the Seym Council. Nobody was blocking the platform. Even before you, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I support the proposal to present the security situation to us and I disagree with Jarosław Kaczyński that the Left works for small, dirty interests. It works for the revolution in Poland. These people are deliberately provoking a revolution. They're willing to sacrifice people. I want to know if the police have - supposedly Antifa is coming to Poland - sharp ammo and has orders to use it. 'Cause unfortunately, the situation is revolutionary right now. We are threatened by what was in Paris in 1989 or what was in Spain in 1935. You use women for that. Ladies and gentlemen, more women are against abortion than men, and they say it's on behalf of women. Don't speak for us. A woman has a 300-fold chance of falling under a car, going to a protest than she will be in a situation where she will have a crippled child. Sit down. You can yell at each other, but that's the facts. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u166	The Member shall be corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u167	In corrigendum mode. I refer to the words of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. The truth is, the arsonist came out on the stand and said, "Cut out the fire." [[Applause]] Ooh... This is the situation in Poland today. What happens on the streets of Polish cities, in Łódź, Warsaw, Sieradz, Zduńska Wola, Rzeszów, that is the result Your actions. What we've been watching in the Seym, that's the result. Your actions. This is the result of your politicising the Constitutional Tribunal that today the Constitutional Tribunal is a pilot, like all other state institutions, such as the prosecutor's office, television. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Don't lie to me. Don't lie to me. And I'm telling you again, we want the truth. Poles today expect the truth about the epidemic. You're hiding the truth. You don't want to let her go because you're afraid of her because she's your biggest enemy. The greatest enemy of you, Prime Minister Kaczyński, is the truth. You know that very well. Yes, sir. You're setting Poland on fire for political interests, and you're gonna have to pay for it. That's just the fact. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u168	The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2020, print No 713. Formal conclusion. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. Formal conclusion. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will still vote on the request for a recess before the first vote. I therefore ask you to proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. In - 217, against - 230, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the centenary of the adoption of the First Act on Cooperatives in Poland. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 701. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.701, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For-- 409, against-- one, he's holding off on one. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the first law on cooperatives in Poland. We return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 676-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finances from print No 676-A on the Government's Draft Printing Act No 643. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed 20 amendments. After the discussion, as a result of the vote, all amendments were rejected by the committee. I recommend, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, that these amendments be rejected and that the bill be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u170	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 676. The Commission presents a minority proposal and an additional report of amendments on which we will vote first. To the article. 1 a draft law containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act has been notified a request from minorities and amendments from 1 to 19. In Amendment 1, applicants propose amendments to the amended law. Amendments 3 to 8, 11, 13, 14 and 16 to 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will render the minority proposal and the amendments 2 and 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 209, against - 242, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In a minority application, the applicant proposes amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 208, against - 242, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment to the article. 7 The laws of the applicant propose a different wording of paragraph. 7 and 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 218, against - 231, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9, to the Article added in the Act. 28g applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 214, against - 231, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 10 to the Article added in the Act. 28j paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 200, against - 229, 15 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the Article added in the Act. 28j paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 4 and to delete point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 214, against - 231, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the Article added in the Act. 28k applicants shall propose that in paragraph 2. 1 delete paragraph 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 211, against - 231, halted 6. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the Article added in the Act. 28o applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 19 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For-- 213, against-- 233, no one's holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 9a and 9b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For -210, against - 229, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 676 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Why can't you vote on a few proposals one at a time, just wait for the result? The system won't allow it. This needs to change the system. 451 Members voted. For - 403, against -21, holding 27. The Sejm passed a law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. I'm gonna announce a 15-minute break. I call the Senior Convention to the dark living room. You're welcome. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 48 hours 15]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 675-A. We proceed to the third reading. I'll make a formal request. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee. May I make a formal request? Mr President, there has just been a break, and you can ask for a break, so it doesn't make sense at the moment. In a minute... But you don't know what I'm thinking. You can only file a formal request for a recess or an adjournment. You don't know what the formal proposal is about. I'm asking if you'll let me file a formal motion. A formal application shall be made in writing. Yeah, after that point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finances from print No 675-A on the Government Draft Law No 642. At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission first considered the motion to reject this bill. The Commission's opinion was negative. The Commission proposes that this request be rejected by the High House. The committee then considered 35 amendments. The Committee has given a positive opinion on 10 amendments and proposes that they be adopted. The other amendments received a negative opinion and the committee requests that they be rejected. In conclusion, the committee recommends that this draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u172	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 675. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law and the amendment. In the first place, I will put to the vote a total motion to reject the draft law submitted at second reading and the first request by minorities to reject the draft law. The Commission requests that the proposal to reject the draft law be rejected. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Can I have one of those, please? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill and the first request by minorities will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I applied for a formal application. Yes, sir, just your request for a recess or an adjournment... But I don't want to apply for a break. But you have no other option to file a formal application. I have another option. Do you know the rules? You should know, you know there are various formal proposals. Some Members chant: Apologize! Apologize! Apologize! You'll all be sorry. Culture. You're acting like... Last chance. Yeah, with that finger. You're afraid you're losing power, not... Mr President, you have no voice. Please take your seat. Do they? No, they don't either. Then pay them attention first. But go ahead and sit down. You're afraid you're gonna lose your power, you're afraid. Mr... You cover the fear of scaring others. We'll run out of four supervisory boards, we'll run out. Prime Minister, they asked about you at the Seym. They're coming for you. Oh... Mr Nitras, take your seat, come down... No, now you won't be able to file a formal application. There is no formal application now. After that, you'll have time to file a formal application. But you're gonna give me a point-by-point vote, and I'd like the Sejm to convince them to vote differently before the point. What am I gonna do after the vote? But it's not a formal conclusion. You don't have that option. Sir, I have the right to file a formal application. Yeah, it's a break. I'd like you to give me that. And the break was just now. I don't understand what you're saying. The fact that you don't understand, we do. It's okay. Please sit down. It's bad. Sir, I'd like to make a formal request. Take your duties seriously. Nitras, they're coming for you, they're waiting for you. I'm not scared. If someone has a clean conscience, they're not afraid. You can't scare me. Sir, get down from here. But I'm not standing on the stand. Mr. Marshal, if you'd paid attention to them first, I'd have adjusted, too, and like you. He's just giving me back... They're coming for you. Because we're on the bench. You follow, you eavesdrop, and there's nothing out of it. And we're digging through women's purses. And we hit women. Who'd want to eavesdrop on Nitras? 432 Members voted. For - 207, against - 225, no one stopped. You're still taxing people. The Sejm's motion is denied. Would you allow me to make a formal request? No, sir, because you are disturbing the deliberations. I want to file a formal application, not interfere. Apologize. In the second minority application, applicants propose to amend the title of the Act. I'd like to make a formal request. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 1st amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'd like to make a formal request, not a break. I heard. The vote is on. Please take your seat. But I wanted to make a formal motion about voting, and I have the right to do so by law. Sure, after that vote, after that point, I'll let you speak. Someone smarter... Mr President, please take your seat, or I will apply... But I'm filing a formal motion. But you're interfering with the vote right now. Mr. Marshal, do I have the right to file a formal application or not? The votes are in. You're gonna sit down. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. For what, man? For wanting to file a formal motion. There's always a rule. Karma's coming back. You're so soft. Remember, Marshal Kuchciński was picking on Nitras, too. I wanted to file a formal motion. Please tell me. Please. You've been disfellowshipped, haven't you? 442 Members voted. For - 173, against - 231, the 38. The Sejm's motion is denied. I wanted to file a formal motion, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have explained to you that after this point I will allow you to speak. But my conclusion concerns this point. After that point, it's... But now you can't ask for a break because the break was just now. But I don't want to ask for a break, you're the one who insisted on this break. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You want to apply informally. I want to file a formal motion. Please make a formal request. One minute. We'll see. [[Applause]] Bravo! But I'm gonna stop you from making an informal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u173	I wanted to make a formal request to change the way in which the proceedings were conducted. We vote on a very important bill, a law that imposes new taxes on Polish citizens... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u174	Mr President, this is a vote, so you can't... I'd like to make a formal request that you allow questions because I'm convinced... But let him speak. You weren't at the Senior Convention or the Sejm Bureau. ...that I will convince you to... This is not a formal conclusion. You won't. Mr President, this is an informal proposal. Please leave the podium. This is a formal conclusion. No. Mr. Marshal, allow me... I know, but there's a formal conclusion, please allow it. Request to change the way in which the proceedings are held and to allow... But that's not an option in voting time. What are you talking about? It's 1 minute. Some Members chant: Apologize to Iwona! Apologize to Ivana! Apologize to Ivana! A woman's boxer. The rules allow questions. The findings of the Sejm and Senior Convention Bureau were different. There is no proper agreement between the Bureau or the Convention that there are no questions. There's the Sejm! The rules allow questions. Just let me file a motion like that. Turn him down, but let me put him down. But he doesn't have to reject it because it's the Marshal's decision. But I have the right to make such an application. Mr President, the Marshal of the Sejm may allow questions to be asked before voting. And that's what I'm asking you to do. And I don't allow questions. But I haven't decided yet, and you haven't. You're interrupting the vote. You're taking the time of the Seym. You're... I'd just like to ask you to allow questions under this important bill that concerns new taxes. Excuse me! Okay, you filed a motion. Thank you. I didn't because you wouldn't let me. You've already asked for permission to ask questions. The conclusion of the motion, Mr. Marshal, is that the application is made and justified. You gave me a minute... But that minute's long gone. But you said in that minute... Let me just do... But you're the one who filed the motion. It took five minutes. Marshal, be serious. Can I file this motion? He didn't file a motion. Make a deposit. Thank you. Don't be silly, Nitras. Submission of an application shall mean submission to the public. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Maybe I should file this application on my own. Mr. Marshal, the rules allow - and it used to be the norm - that at third reading we could ask a question for each amendment. This bill is extremely important. The state of this law imposes new taxes on Poles who earn income abroad, they do not live abroad. Imagine a student who, for example. He studies in Britain and works to earn money for college. Imagine a Pole who, for example. For 15 years he worked construction in Ireland, returned to Poland and got a pension from Ireland. And you don't know that until we're 26, students... You're gonna retire him, just like you did that student... This is the second time you tax this income in Poland, the second time. Imagine a cross-border worker who works in a neighbouring country and lives with his family in Poland. But don't lie to me. You're gonna make him pay his taxes twice. Horrible, horrible. President Kaczyński may not even know it. They will pay taxes in Ireland, the UK, Norway and the second time they will pay tax in Poland. This is daylight looting. Please, I ask you questions, and if you do not allow these questions, I would like to draw your attention to the amendments (Ring) from 2 to 5, because... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the Poles I mentioned... [[Applause]] Thank you. I inform you that the president of your club has agreed - we have agreed - that at the end of this point each club will have time to ask one question. Exactly. Your Grace. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, will want to press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 171, against - 231, the 42. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 3 to 8 and amendments from 2 to 9 were submitted to Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act. In the third minority proposal, applicants propose not to give new wording to the relevant articles of the amended law. Its adoption will make the minority proposals from 4 to 7 and the 8th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 204, against - 232, holding off on 11. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. do not give a new wording to point 6 in Article. 3 (1) (a) 2b. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 204, against - 232, holding off on 11. The Sejm's motion is denied. It's not over yet. In the fifth minority motion... Sorry, we haven't finished this vote yet. The result of the previous vote was shown to me. 452 Members voted. For - 216, against - 236, no one stopped. The motion was rejected. In the 5th minority application, applicants propose not to give a new wording to point 6 in Article. 3 (1) (a) 2b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 211, against - 233, holding down 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. do not add lithium. e in Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 214, against - 232, 1 holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. Amendment to point 51a of Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 204, against - 231, the 15. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority application and the same 2nd amendment, applicants propose, among others. Do not add lips. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27g. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render amendments 3 to 7 unobtrusive. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority proposal and the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 220, against - 228, 1 holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the second sentence in Article. Paragraph 27g. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 4. to 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 217, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add the second and third sentences to Article. Paragraph 27g. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 5. to 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 214, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add a second and third sentence to Article. Paragraph 27g. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 6 and 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For-- 219, against-- 229, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add a second and third sentence to Article. Paragraph 27g. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 221, against - 226, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to add a second and third sentence to Article. Paragraph 27g. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. For-- 223, against-- 231, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 4i and 4j in Article 41. This amendment is accompanied by amendments 22nd and 28th. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 13, 15, 21, 23, 24 and 25 and 15 of the minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 8, 22 and 28? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For - 269, against - 172, holding off on 11. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose amendments to point 1 and 4 of Article. 52l and Art. 52t paragraph. 1. Amendments 26, 27, 29, 31, 32 and 34 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. Corrections? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 396, against - 43, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Minority requests from 9 to 16 and amendments to 10 to 26 were submitted to Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the 9th minority proposal, applicants propose not to give new wording to the relevant articles of the amending act. Its adoption will render minority proposals 10 to 13 and amendments 10 to 17 and 19. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 208, against - 236, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose among others. Do not add lips. In Article 4, paragraph 6 is replaced Amendments 14, 16, 17 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will render the minority's proposals 10 to 12 and 11, 12, 20 and 33. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 10, 14, 16, 17 and 19 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 214, against - 235, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th minority application, applicants propose not to add paragraph. In Article 4, paragraph 6 is replaced Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 11th and 12th minority proposals and amendments to the 11th, 12th and 20th amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For-- 215, against-- 234, no one's holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 11th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. not add point 1a in Article. 1 paragraph 3. Its adoption will render the 12th minority proposal and amendments 11 and 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For - 214, against - 238, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose, among others. maintaining the wording of point 1 in Article. 1 paragraph 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the 12th minority proposal irrelevant and the 12th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For-- 215, against-- 235, one holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose not to add point 1a in Article. 1 paragraph 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For-- 213, against-- 235, no one's holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th minority application, applicants shall propose to add points 3 and 4 in Article. 1 paragraph 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 205, against - 231, with a hold of 10. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 13, 15, 21, 23, 24 and 25 have become irrelevant. In the 13th. the applicant's minority application proposes not to add paragraph. Article 8 16i. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 200, against - 235, 12 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose other amendments to point 2 of Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 14th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. In - 211, against - 235, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th minority application, applicants shall propose other amendments to point 2 of Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 200, against - 233, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 20th amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 4e 22. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 208, against - 233, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. 15. The minority's proposal has become pointless. In the 16th minority proposal, applicants propose not to add Article to the Act. 27c. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. In - 205, against - 233, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 17th minority application, applicants propose amendments to the Income Act of local government units. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 206, against - 226, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 18th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 9 in the draft amending act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 207, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose amendments to the Social Security Act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 212, against - 228, holding down 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 19th minority application, applicants propose to add an article. 21a and 21b in the draft amending act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 208, against - 226, with a hold of 10. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 33rd amendment to the article. 22 applicants propose a new wording for the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals from 20 to 22. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For-- 213, against-- 234, no one's holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 20th minority proposal, applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. Its adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 21 and 22. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Za-210, against- 223, holding off on one. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 21st minority proposal, applicants propose... It was, I'm sorry. In the 22nd minority proposal, applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act... No, I got off on the right foot. I'm sorry again. In the 21st minority proposal, applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 22nd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st minority request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For-- 215, against-- 226, no one's holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 22nd minority proposal, applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For-- 216, against-- 219, no one's holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Mr. Marshal... Yes, sir, now is the time to ask each club one question. You're welcome. May I? Yes, please, Mr Artur Dziambor, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are voting for a moment on the entire bill on the reduction of abolition relief - abolition relief for people who work abroad and bring their hard-earned money to Poland. And I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, that you owe it to him. You are all equally guilty of these people working abroad and not working in Poland. The entire political class, which has managed the state over the past few decades, has contributed to the fact that millions of Poles work abroad and unfortunately often have to leave - for most people it was not a choice on a fanaber basis, for most people it was the only chance. So that you all contributed to it, from the left to the so-called. Right. And now you have a chance to vote against this bill, you have a chance not to hurt these people, and you have a chance not to avenge them for choosing to leave Poland to earn normal money. I hope you'll enjoy it. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u176	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. After all, Mr Korwin himself worked in the European Parliament. What's it like? Exactly. What's it like?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u177	The PiS vote on this bill is a disgrace. On one side e.g. Restaurants you close to COVID have increased taxes since 1 January if they are limited companies and, on the other hand, people who went abroad to study and work there, who worked there on construction or on farms and today enjoy a well-earned pension, or people who work as cross-border workers. If someone 15 years worked hard, for example. In the British Isles and today he enjoys his retirement, why should he pay twice the tax? Mr. Kaczyński, if you spent all your money, can you pay your pension twice? You have income as a Member, you have income as a diet, and you still have nearly 100,000. zł pension per year, and once you pay tax... Get to the point. ...and the Pole who works in the UK will pay twice the tax. Why? You don't talk to women, you don't talk to farmers, you don't talk to people working abroad, and then you're surprised that they all come here and resent you. And you say by COVID [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't protest. Thank you, sir. You're scared... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You're afraid of power, not... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u178	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Sit down. We're not on you. Please take your place, sir. Are you... Mr President, please take your seat. Mr President, please leave the speaker. Just because you're dandruffing Kaczynski, it doesn't entitle you to tell me on you. Mr President, please leave the speaker. Sit down. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Poland we have 72 thousand. entrepreneurs concentrated in 45 thousand. limited companies with more than 0.5 million employees. Today, instead of receiving a helping hand from the United Right Government, they see the Lichocka gesture, receiving double taxation. The government has 13 billion on the Central Communication Port - today's decision, as your television informs - and entrepreneurs will be oppressed. You've already sentenced family farms, now there are entrepreneurs working in limited companies. The question is: Is it the idea of the United Right to fight the economic crisis that is going to end businesses? Well, actually, it's an innovative idea. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, on the one hand, the government says this: you have to protect jobs, you have to help, you have to fight for entrepreneurs to be able to function - and on the other hand, you are presenting a bill that raises taxes that tax limited companies that tax people and Poles who work abroad. What's the point, and what's the logic? You're saying, of course, that you have to tax the limited partnership because it's foreign capital. What foreign capital? 50,000. limited companies, of which only 400 or 500 with foreign capital. This law concerns Poles and Poles who work honestly in Poland. But now we have a moment for questions. Therefore, I have a clear and clear question to the majority of Law and Justice: Do you have calculated how many limited companies by this decision will fall, how many jobs will be lost in Poland if you adopt this law today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u182	Thank you very much. I ask for the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The longer I listen to the statements of the Members of the opposition, the more I think we are talking about two completely different projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed law has one very specific purpose... Nose. The nose mask. ...to improve the health of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in a particularly difficult situation related to COVID. Entrepreneurs lose and lose not only as a result of the epidemic of restrictions but also as a result of the new threat of market instability. What do companies need? It takes three things, and it's the three things that this bill will give them now. Firstly, low taxes, such as those that allow companies to create financial security cushions [[Applause]] and invest when it is possible and beneficial for them. Hence solutions such as today's Estonian CIT, broadening the availability of lump sums. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course. On the other hand, reducing the possibility of applying a 9% CIT rate for a large number of entrepreneurs. Secondly, companies need security, maximum billing simplicity, so that their tax duties take as little time as possible and do not involve risks. Remember, the simpler the tax settlement rules, the lower the cost of handling it. That's not the bill. Absolutely, because this bill for 180 thousand. We open the possibility of using a lump sum from registered revenues. Or is it not? That's not the bill. Mr Nitras, listen. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. Listen to me. Listen. More listening. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thirdly, companies need equals, sir... What about local governments? That's not the bill. This one, by all means, maybe you haven't read it. ...the conditions of competition. I would like to reiterate that, in the course of the economic downturn, during the increased competition between large and small companies, equal conditions of competition should be ensured for these smaller operators, and a very important element of the competitive advantage of large operators is the wide scope for saving on taxes, which is the result of pushing smaller companies out of the market. I would like to stress once again that the project presented today, the whole package - and the one you voted on just a moment ago, and the one you will be voting on in a moment - is 7 billion PLN in the pockets of entrepreneurs next year. Only in a quarter of the cost of this will be covered by tax sealing changes, with seals in the vast majority affecting aggressive optimizations related to the delivery of funds to tax havens. The change will benefit 400,000. companies, and the smallest ones for which a tax reduction will be or will not be in a difficult fight to stay on the market. Will you report the financial consequences? Do you mind if I... Absolutely. There you go. Continuing, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of limited partnership companies, which aroused a great deal of interest in you, I would like to say that according to the data from the control of the National Tax Administration registered in Poland, limited limited companies are increasingly a vehicle for bringing funds to tax havens. This does not apply only to 3% of the limited partnership companies, which are owned by foreign entities... Which ones? ...but also entities owned by Poles who, through transactions with connected entities registered in tax havens, carry out funds abroad. This applies e.g. such companies whose owners are Poles, which are registered in tax havens, and in which Poles are e.g. members of the Boards of Directors. Ladies and gentlemen! This change also seals the national tax system. What we care about is the level of taxation between the limited liability company and the limited liability company as a partner of the limited partnership in a situation where both companies are in fact the same person behind the business activity. In such a scheme, the limited partnership is camouflage only the actual activity of the entrepreneur, which does not differ at all from the limited liability company. This is exactly the same phenomenon that colleagues from the Civic Platform wanted to eliminate, prevent in 2013. This was done only halfway against the limited liability companies despite the opposition of Law and Justice and despite the opposition of the PSL coalitionant. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of escape from CIT taxation with the use of a limited partnership is a global problem, and the OECD directly recommends that CIT cover companies. This has already been done by 12 countries of the European Union, Belgium and Spain in the West, and in our region Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania. I would like to stress very strongly that the inclusion of CIT in limited companies will not mean their liquidation, they will continue to serve business to raise capital, they will not only allow tax avoidance. Smaller companies will not feel any change, CIT paid by the company will be deducted from the tax paid by the partners. The situation of the partner will not change because he will make such a deduction (the bell) and the commander will benefit from the tax-free amount. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's remember that as much as 75% of these companies will be subject to a preferential rate of 9% CIT, which in the case of even these hybrids will mean liquidity support, because as far as they have so far paid 19% PIT, as long as the profit is not paid to the shareholders, will only pay 90% CIT. So that this solution is very beneficial for this difficult period of epidemic. In turn, in the case of limited partnership companies, which are used in accordance with their intended purpose as a tool for seeking additional capital in a company from unrelated parties, taxation will fall from 19 to 17,29% with the partner, also less tax will be paid by the commander as long as his income does not exceed 156 thousand. PLN per year. Ladies and gentlemen! This is where we even the odds. Indeed, tax rules may not benefit, say, a dozen or so out of 40 thousand. registered in Poland limited companies, while in this way we equalize the chance of 200,000. Fairly paying CIT limited liability companies and 2 million single-member businesses whose owners are responsible for all their assets for liabilities, for any failure of their business, but which are taxed in the same way as the hybrids whose state is defending. I'm going back to the subject of absolution. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2008, there have been rules that preferentially treat the income of people who live in Poland, but for less than 6 months of the year they operate abroad. As a result, the tax is very often not paid either in the workplace or in the place of residence, i.e. in Poland. Worse still, abolition relief often serves dishonest companies so as not to pay taxes in Poland at all. According to the information from the control, tax is avoided e.g. by transferring the profit generated in Poland to a company registered in another country. Such a profit is then paid back to the Polish owner as a remuneration of the director, who thanks to the abolition relief does not pay tax at all. On the other hand, I have a huge request. I very much want you, Members of the opposition, to be involved in equalising the level of knowledge between us, the government side, the Member State and the stakeholders. Don't lie to me! Once again, I wanted to remind you... Quiet! [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...that changes in the abolition allowance will not apply to Polonia, will not affect 2.5 million Poles who live in other countries of the European Union and in the world. This will apply only to those who live in Poland over 183 days a year and travel abroad for a shorter period than six months. There are not millions of such people, and 67 000, with a change in the law, thanks to the application of the tax-free amount, only 1/3 of them, or just over 20,000. persons. I wanted to stress very strongly: the 20,000. people are people who save a lot on taxes. On average, more than 10,000. PLN per year and 80% of these revenues are made by them in other tax havens, namely Luxembourg, Cyprus and the Netherlands. Ladies and gentlemen! I stress that this will not affect students at all, because students are covered by PIT zero for young people since last year, I'm sure you have noticed this. I would also like to stress very strongly that the new standard of tax credit to be paid... What about pensioners? Mr Nitras, you had a chance to ask a question. Calm down. Deep breath, deep breath, please. Your Marshal... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: ...in Poland the tax paid abroad is a new global standard. In very few countries of the European Union, these principles, which we change, function. We are equal to the European average, the new standard implemented in the vast majority of EU countries. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. That's a good tax raise! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Disgraceful! I would ask you to calm your emotions, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law with the wording of print No. 675, together with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Raise your own taxes. 448 Members voted. 232 Members voted against - 215, 1 Member abstained. Disgraceful! The Sejm passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. With a formal proposal from Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u185	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the name of responsibility, but also in the role of the Sejm control, please inform the Minister of Health about the epidemic situation in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we've been informed there's over 18,000. infections. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because of you. Because of you. You're getting people to do this. Ladies and gentlemen! But we have also received information that 1150 ventilators are occupied. In Mazowsze, ladies and gentlemen, there are 12 ventilators available. There are 12 ventilators available in Małopolska. We do not know what the scenarios are and whether an emergency will not be announced in the coming days. Prime Minister! I urge you to ask Minister Niedzielski to submit information here. The strategy you have presented is five pages. There's nothing from her at all. On November 4th, we'll meet again and we can... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u186	Thank you, sir. This was not a formal conclusion, Mr. President. Thank you very much. This is a recess request. Excuse me? Sorry, time's up. Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the regulations, I ask for a break and information from the Marshal of the Sejm and Prime Minister Morawiecki about the security situation. You made the Seym. I'm saying. Right. You've made a stronghold with the Seym, and what's more, you're jamming Internet communications outside of the Seym. These are the methods used in Belarus. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sit down. We got word that an ABW officer hit one of the protesters that the SOP limousines collided with the trams. And you call on your followers to go out on the street. Sit down. You call us criminals. You're the criminal. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] You bastards must defend yourself. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u188	Was that you, sir? Excuse me? We'll check. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. Show me this board: this is war. Let me see that board. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] After 5 years of ruling, it's laughing... And after all these years, you could behave in the courtroom. I'm really, really asking you to calm your emotions. But I'm very calm. I can see that. I can see there's something troubling going on with you. [[Applause]] Oh... What are you guys taking? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] All right, sir. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Kalet, sit down. But you didn't hear that 19,000. There's been an illness. Your marshal, the one who's screaming now, his name is Kaczyński, as if you forgot. Mr President, I really do see some problems in you. Kaczynski. 453 Members voted. The proposal was voted on 210 against - 234, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2020 (Prints 712 and 713). I kindly ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Four amendments were tabled by the Senate to amend the budget law for 2020. The Commission delivered an opinion on the amendments at its meeting today. I recommend the High House to reject three amendments and to adopt one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u190	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda for the examination of the Senate's amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the budget law for 2020 The Senate proposes inter alia. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 reduce the amount of state budget expenditure by 100 million 100 thousand. zł. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 234, against - 158, with 56 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 2 to 4 were tabled in Annex 2 containing the expenditure plan of the State budget for 2020. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Part 46: Health, Chapter 8149: Health policy programmes, increase the current expenditure of budgetary units by PLN 2 billion. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 240, against - 203, holding down 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes the creation of a new special-purpose reserve: the resources for handling the Treasury's debt and the addition of own resources to the general budget of the European Union. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For -6, against -424, the 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to create a special reserve: resources for the European Solidarity Centre. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 239, against - 207, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We would like to return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law amending the Law on State Aid Procedure. The additional committee report shall be in print No 670-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On yesterday's Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development discussed amendments to the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on State Aid Procedure. 7 amendments were tabled during the second reading. All amendments are of a legislative and order nature. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends that the High House adopt these amendments. In view of their legislative and order nature, we propose that they be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u192	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 670. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on the procedure for State aid cases. In the first amendment to Article. 24a applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Amendments 2 to 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For -423, against -6, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law with the wording of print No. 670 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 440, against - 2, holding off on 2. The Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on State aid proceedings. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. The additional committee report shall be in print No 652-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 15 amendments were tabled to the government's draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing during the second reading. Today, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy have examined these amendments and recommended to the High House: Amendments 1, 2, 7 and from 9 to 15, voted jointly, accepted, Amendments 3, 4, 5 and 8 rejected and accepted Amendment 6. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u194	Thank you very much. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 652. The committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. In amendments 1, 2, 7 and 9 to 15, applicants propose, among others. the deletion of Article. 3 and 4 in the draft amending act. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 1, 2, 7 and 9 to 15? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 208, against - 228, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 33 Act on certain forms of housing promotion. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 206, against - 230, with 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2 in Article. 33dd paragraph. 2 Act on certain forms of housing promotion. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 203, against - 230, with 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to points 1 and 2 in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 Housing Supplements Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 200, against - 225, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant shall propose amendments to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Housing Supplements Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 219, against - 225, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant shall propose amendments to Article. 19f, 19g and 19i law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 207, against - 225, with 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 652, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. In -430, against -3, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the organisation of livestock farming and breeding. The additional committee report shall be in print No 660-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the Sejm meeting yesterday three amendments were tabled to the draft law on the organisation of livestock farming and breeding, prints 512 and 660. Today, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has gathered on this issue and recommends that each of these amendments be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u196	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 660. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -426, against -6, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose in point 10 the words "and replace it with "or." The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For -433, against -4 stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 50a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For -441, against -2, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 660 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For -427, against -1, holding off on 11. The Sejm passed a law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The additional committee report shall be in print No 671-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has examined four amendments to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office notified at second reading by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. I recommend that these four amendments be rejected. At the same time, I would like to inform you that these four amendments should be voted on together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u198	Thank you, sir. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law on printing No 671. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In amendments 1 to 4, applicants propose amendments to abolish the requirement that the applicant has only Polish citizenship as a judge or prosecutor. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 1 to 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 203, against - 231, halted 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 671 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For- 249, against-- 200, holding off on two. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 662. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 662? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 398, against - 32, stopped 14. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the government draft law on the profession of pharmacist. The additional committee report shall be in print No 663-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the meeting, the Health Commission considered a government draft law on the profession of pharmacist, print No 238. We have been working on 32 amendments that have been tabled. The Commission's opinion on amendment 28 was positive and the rest was negative. The Commission asks the High House and recommends that the whole draft law be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 663. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 applicants propose a different wording of point 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For - 89, against - 242, 121 people abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose to add point 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? 451 Members voted. For - 92, against - 231, 128 people abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. Amendments 8, 11 and 20 are related to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 8, 11 and 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 208, against - 242, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Maybe you shouldn't turn your back on a marshal like that. You really don't have to take care of me. But I care about myself because they're behind me, too. [[Game in the O.R.]] 454 Members voted. For - 209, against - 233, 12 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 4. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 5 and 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 80, against - 233, 137 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 206 voted against - 241, with 0 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 3. Amendment 10 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 10 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 161 votes against - 234, with 58 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The applicant shall propose a different wording to point 6. Amendment 15 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 12 and 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 205, against - 243, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 applicants propose to add point 8. Amendment 16 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 13 and 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 207, against - 244, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 17. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The vote - 46, against - 275, with 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to add paragraph. 9. The Commission rejects this amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 17 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 voted against - 242, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 6 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 13. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 18 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217 voted against - 232, with 0 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 13 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 19 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 214 Members voted against - 232, 0 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. 29. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 22. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 21 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 204, against 243, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 29. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 22 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 votes against - 241, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 32 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 23 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 80 Members voted against - 231, with 134 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 35. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 24 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 48 Members voted against - 276, with 121 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 35a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 25 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 78, against - 243, 126 people abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 50 applicants propose to add paragraph. 18 and 19. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 26 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 87 Members voted against - 234, with 128 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 61 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 27 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 213, against - 233, one person abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 1 and 3, 33, Art. 43 (2), Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) 44, Art. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 3 and 4 of Article 1. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1, Article 48 (1) (a) 1, Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1, Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For -442, against - 3, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 2a and 2b in Article 86 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendment 30. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 29 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 45 people, against - 276, 123 people abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to the calculation in the added paragraph. Article 2b 86 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 30 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 161 votes against - 278, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment of the applicant, the amendment to Article. 88 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 31 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 44 persons, against - 278, with 126 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Mr. President, the mask. Sir, do you have a problem? Yeah, the mask. We feel threatened. Yeah, I can see that. Then don't come any closer, don't go that way, and it'll be okay. In the 32nd amendment, the applicant proposes not to add paragraph. 2b-2h in Article 88 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 32 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 168 people voted against - 277, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, applicants propose not to add point 8 in Article. 88. 5 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 33 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 172, against - 277, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of point 1 in Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 34 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 209, against - 242, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording to the added point 10 in Article. Article 103 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Laws - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 35, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 167, against - 278, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of point 1 in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 36, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 170, against - 277, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 120. 2 and do not add lips. 2a and 2b in the Act - Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 37 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 170, against - 276, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the added point. e in Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council; 5 point 41 and the addition of point 20 in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on public-funded healthcare provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 38, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 200, against - 236, there were 12 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 92. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 39 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 436 Members voted. For - 43, against - 270, stopped 123. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... Whoa, whoa, whoa. Question. The question was raised by Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Following the physiotherapist's 2015 law, after the doctor's and dentist's profession law, which we updated in 2020, this is another law that is supposed to put the system of medical professions in order. It could have been a very good bill, unfortunately there are several records that bother us. This includes, in particular, provisions on the operation of pharmacies. This will make us want to fix them at the Senate level by introducing amendments to this bill. Right now, we're gonna hold off on her, even though we think it's a law we're gonna need. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all pharmacists for their work, especially at the beginning of the COVID epidemic, when very often, in the case of a doctor, only teleporad could be used. It was the farmers who were on the first line against the COVID. You could use their help, use pharmacies. Then, as we know, they were particularly difficult. Let's be clear, no one knew who was infected or who might be infected. Therefore, today, on the occasion of the bill on which we will vote, the pharmaceutical profession law, I would like to thank them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u202	Thank you. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 663, along with the amendment adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 254, against - 13, with a hold of 174. The Sejm passed a law on the profession of pharmacist. High Seym! We're still gonna have to vote both procedural and substantive, so I'm gonna inform you about that. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID. Where'd they get their brains? Mr. Marshal, I volunteered before this point. We're about to take over. This is print number 717. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. Scandal. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. You're welcome to make a formal request. Mr. Marshal, there have been formal requests. Yes, with a formal application from Mr. Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we were joined over political division by an important issue, we all wanted to help health workers, doctors, nurses, all heroes and heroes who stood on the front line of the fight against COVID. Today, less than 12 hours later Law and Justice wants to rob all those we rewarded yesterday for their hard work. Liars. This bill is the law of a thief who wants to secretly collect money from people who are fighting for our health. Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Niedzielski last week from this speaker said: we will help these people, we will stand by them. I ask you, which side are you on? Prime Minister! I'm talking to Prime Minister Kaczyński. Isn't it also the safety of fighting for these people to make more money? Isn't it about giving them money, knowing that they're sacrificing their hard work? This isn't about us translating: whether the right or the left. It's about honesty. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! Take the side of the people who are fighting for our health. They deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's how to lie. Scandal. The scandal, the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u204	Answer... I volunteered first, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am already ignoring this language, which is better not to be used in this House. He was great, he was great. But we're used to it. So do we. Quiet! You demoted this Sejm in a way that even in the worst times of this 30th anniversary, when there was another left, this purely SLD-owska, wasn't there. Traitor's face. But it's just a side line. Pavlowicz's barn was talking about. I would urge you to return to the customs of this left who is no longer here. For though they were evil, it is far better than yours. This is case one. But it's number two. The state, or rather your parliamentary clubs, your senators, the Marshal of the Senate, has made a higher change in the House (the Bell), which actually boils down to two points. Time's up. First, to the fact that the person who gives advice on the phone and does not even see the sick, and the one who risks fighting COVID directly, is to be treated the same way. Keep your voice And that's moral abuse. And secondly, that leads to an additional 40 billion, which is to destroy the National Health Fund... That's not true. That's right, that's right. ...and to destroy all public finances. [[Applause]] And you're doing this specifically to destroy the Polish country... Quiet! ...in the name of your business. Right. Perhaps Janusz Korwin-Mikke was right that he was also ideological, but above all the small ones. [[Applause]] But they misled you with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u206	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u207	Mr. Marshal, I would ask for the same allocation of time as you had President Kaczyński, because we are equal in this Seym. Prime Minister. No, sir, you are a Member and the Prime Minister is Prime Minister. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've deprived a large part of the doctors of additives, and the Senate has restored these allowances. And this amendment is very correct, but I have bad news for the PiS and very good news for the doctors because you wanted to take allowances for your job on infectious wards, but it seems to be impossible. In this bill - and here I refer to the doctor of the law, to the lawyers who are in this Chamber - art. 1 says: in the Law of 27 October on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. I would like to inform you, the High House, that such a law has not entered into force. You can't change a law that didn't come into force. This bill didn't come out of the Sejm, it didn't reach the president, the president didn't sign it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, it cannot be changed. [[Applause]] So today's sitting is pointless and I ask you to call the Senior Convention to stop... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, sir. You've run out of time. Thank you very much. No, no, no, this is too important. I didn't file a motion. Mr Michael now has the floor... Ten seconds, please. Ten seconds, go ahead. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Let me finish, Mr. Marshal. You have a majority in this House, so although the laws could be voted by a majority - real laws. And you are proposing today without any mode. And that's not gonna happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u208	Mr Michał Szczerba, Coalition Club, with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u209	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like for a moment to silence all of this House's emotions, because I would like to remind you of an important anniversary. Today, High Izbo, is the seventh anniversary of the death of the first non-communist Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. [[Some of the Members are up.]] Tadeusz Mazowiecki was a longtime member, but he was the first non-communist prime minister. He was a man of dialogue, a man of wisdom, a man of compromise. I ask the High House to celebrate the minute of silence of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's memory. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u210	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, Mr. President, I'm gonna take a little bit of the defense of my friend and colleague from the Left because I'm sorry to say this, but you've got your part in this... ...comuna... ...how low the language in this House has fallen. On the other hand, Mr President, as the leader of the parliamentary majority, the majority sitting in this Chamber, you are also responsible for how Poles will see the quality of our work. The milk's already spilled today. Doctors, nurses, paramedics yesterday realized perfectly well that a legal solution was adopted. Today, the way you're proposing here, it's like someone hit them in the face. Unfortunately, you have to face the consequences... ...overruled... ...the actions you're taking today, and the way you're doing it. The legislative process has not yet run out [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's really worth it to finish it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u212	Thank you very much. I would point out that this was not a formal conclusion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19 (print No 717), will press the button. Whoever gives and receives, he gets carried away in hell. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal, we can't change a bill that doesn't exist. 441 Members voted. For -231, against -209, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on the added agenda item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection, I hear. I will put him to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Which one will the president sign first? Which the chairman says. 443 Members voted. For - 226, against - 215, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19 (print No 717). I ask Mr Jacek Żłek to present the justification for the bill. Oh... You're the one who chose the giant. Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that the circumstances are serious proves, for example, that we all have masks on our lips and noses. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm surprised some of the parliamentarians in this situation think that mocking... Quiet! ...that under these circumstances we can talk, discuss this project. The proposal for this amendment is very serious. Seriously because we wanted to appreciate the work of those who saved the lives and health of our fellow countrymen... Put a mask on your eyes. ...who aren't lucky enough to save their health and sometimes their lives from this epidemic. That is why we need to appreciate the work of doctors and all those who, on the first line in health care, are helping our fellow countrymen. Sir, don't lie to me. The situation in which the High House grants everyone an allowance, whether or not they are involved, only because they are health workers, which excludes the possibility of differentiation and appreciation of the work of those who truly sacrifice, is unfortunately a mockery. Mr. President, you're lying. And I regret that there are Members in Parliament who have no reflection on how serious the epidemic situation is. Therefore, the justification for this project, which you probably have read, is not long, but very concrete. But it doesn't make any sense. The point is to give raises to those who... Quiet! [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...work, engage, expose themselves, not everyone, because it excludes the possibility of distinguishing those who are on the front line. If that's what it takes... You don't know who's on the front line. If that justifies an uproar in Parliament, then what other rations can be made? Do we want the resources we have at our disposal as best as possible, as best we can, to be best placed for those who are helping our sick, or to squander them as quickly as possible? That question, of course, is a rhetorical question. And yesterday... I see there's no atmosphere in the opposition benches to hold a debate. There isn't, there isn't. There's no tolerance for lies. You know the arguments, they are obvious. I hope that we will proceed with this project as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]] They're going crazy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves! The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on behalf of the clubs and the circle for three minutes. I'm opening a discussion. He's a specialist, too. You've got the wrong guy. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club: Law and Justice, Mr Michał Woś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club in favour of the proposals presented in the Parliamentary draft Print Act No 717 and, at the same time, to ask for an immediate second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! He's a specialist, too. Ha, ha, ha! What a number.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u216	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mr Boris Budek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have no shame. You don't have any shame. You cannot accept good solutions, and once again you share Poles, this time doctors. Darlings, it doesn't make any difference if someone's working against COVID in a hospital like this, not another hospital. Whether he's on sick leave or not. You just know that you've gone bankrupt, that the image of Poland that you've been building is false. [[Applause]] You don't have any money. The money's empty. You lied this morning, you lie at noon, and you can lie at noon. You're a bunch of hypocrites who want to rob Poles again. Liars! Where were you when you were handing out millions to Rydzyk? Where were you when your friend ordered a ventilator without bidding? Where were you then? You robbed Poles, and today you want to rob Polish doctors. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] And that's your policy. Fingers. Yesterday, you're adopting a bill that, thanks to the opposition, we've given resources to everyone according to the fact that they're fighting COVID, but you have to take it away because you can't accept one law that's fair to everyone. Because you feel like those rulers who have the power to give, but only the chosen ones. And that's the scandal. And you're additionally running in mode without mode. How are the tanks, Mr. Budka? You had a PhD, Prime Minister? In ancient times, maybe so, but your activities prove that this doctorate should be long removed from you, because no one has ever trampled on the Polish constitution as many times as you and your colleagues. [[Applause]] Come to your senses. Art. 30 and 38 Constitution for the Protection of Life. How are the tanks?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u218	On behalf of the Left Club, Mr Jan Szopiński. Mr. Marshal, I wanted something. Mr. Marshal... Please leave the podium. Mr. Marshal, it's... Ah... You're welcome. Marshal, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, all medical personnel who are struggling with the overload and failure of the system, who are struggling with time, pressure, lack of a coherent and clear government strategy, but also with the law and their own weaknesses, resilience to stress and great responsibility, need first and foremost support, needs tests, respect, motivation, help in building social trust, but also needs financial support. What are you doing? You do what you do best: share. That's always the best thing for you guys. And in an absolutely disgraceful way, you want to change the rules passed by the Sejm yesterday. You're making an upload, an amendment to a non-existent law. You call it a convalescence of error, you talk about maintaining budgetary balance and the reasons for justice. Shame on you. You are unable to control the chaos because you have never provided citizens with security and a well-thought-out consistent strategy to fight the pandemic. Today we reap the harvest of your omissions and extreme irresponsibleness. Chaos in health care is getting worse, from hour to hour. The fear of citizens is growing. If it weren't for the people who fought the front line with COVID, the doctors, the rescuers, the nurses, the diaphragms, the labs, the health system would have collapsed a long time ago. You can't appreciate their work, their commitment, and you put them in danger. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We just appreciate it. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I request that this drop-in be rejected without any mode, at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish health service dreamed of this law, which gave financial resources to doctors headed by voivodships to health care units as well as to those who are employed in these health units. It was an opportunity and an opportunity to get these drugs to doctors on the one hand, on the other hand they went to nurses, to middle-school people, who are very much in such a hospital, because they are cooks, they are saloons, and there are also staff who decide about the research in hospitals. They were all supposed to receive the appropriate allowances, they were supposed to receive these allowances regardless of the degree of employment they had. However, I would like to ask: What has happened today since 3 p.m. 24 to this day? What does this word "convalidation" mean? I'd like to ask you these questions, Mr. President. Why 20 MPs from the PiS who voted today at 3 p.m. Twenty-four behind this bill... Does this mean that they are now against the Polish health service? [[Applause]] Have they made a mistake today, or are they making a mistake now? In addition, Mr President, if I had one vice-president, one minister, one vice-minister, in a set of those who make such a mistake, I would wonder whether these people should perform these functions. [[Applause]] To tell you the truth, my wife would be afraid to let them take the trash out of the house because they could hurt themselves. When do they make the right decisions? Do you vote today at 3 p.m. Twenty-four to give money to the health care department, or are you now retreating from cancer? There is one Member in this Chamber, not known for his parliamentary gestures. This Member of the Commission today at 3 p.m. 24 votes: let's give money to health care. And now I'm reading in the justification of this project that you sign: let's not give money to health care. I would like to ask: When is she just serious? But, you know, Mr. Chairman, I'm from Kujaw and Pomerania. If it turned out that 20 Members had changed their minds since 3 p.m. 24 to now, it would be the peasants in our voivodeship who would consider whether these parliamentarians, first of all, at least should not say, "I am sorry," secondly, should they not consider how they should continue to fulfil their parliamentary mandate in this House. There shouldn't be such mistakes. I'd like to... Finish it. ...to the hands of the marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] apply for rejection of the bill at first reading, because this is what the Polish health service expects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u222	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u223	First, Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Next time, Marshal Zgorzelski will present you as a representative of the Agreement. That's the first line. The second point is that what you're doing today is a mockery. First of all, you mock parliamentarianism and yesterday's decision of the Sejm. And yours, too, because you voted for her. But worst of all, you mocked heroes, contemporary heroes of the Republic. [[Applause]] Modern heroes. No... respect for these heroes. Don't mock them. You promised them because that's what Minister Niedzielski said to my question at the last session of the Sejm, whether the bonuses would be for everyone. Yeah, bonuses will be for everyone. Not just for those directed by the voivode, not just for those going to the National Hospital. For all those who will treat patients with COVID-19. Right. And that bonus has been due to them not since today, not since yesterday, but since March 2020 when they started fighting on the front line. Rooms, paramedics, diagnes, physiotherapists, nurses and doctors. And the doctors of the residents. These are modern-day heroes. And you're mocking them. You vote at night: yes, let's give them more money. Let's make up for the effort they give each day. It's a risk to yourself, to your family. Let us also reward those who have sacrificed their health because they have COVID-19 because they have healed because they have saved health and life. But there's no respect for health or life here. There's a loss of control over the state. You have lost control of the epidemic, you have lost control of the state, but, moreover, you have lost control of the majority. 'Cause last night, most of them voted it out. They just deserve it. Just like your prime minister used to say you guys deserved bonuses in the ministries. Then give back the bonuses that Emilevich gave, leaving, and give them to doctors, nurses, paramedics. [[Applause]] Bravo! Because they deserve it. If you deserve something in Poland today, you certainly deserve respect, gratitude and a decent reward for heroes who save our lives and health. You can't understand that. But why did you vote in favour yesterday? That's not how I voted. But your friends voted for it. And my friends. You voted because maybe you had a glimpse of decency. No, because they were wrong. Today we have to apply for rejection. It's about rejecting this bill in its entirety, because unfortunately, you can't do one thing. That's cynicism. One thing you can't understand is that you have to appreciate those who sacrifice their lives and their health. That's what we understand. You can't understand it because today you're making a cynical bill that puts only your interests first. Not a social interest, not a citizen's interest, and certainly not a health care interest. Bravo! The interest in social justice. Those who fight must get more. Today, these workers maintain their health-care skills. Throw it all away. [[Applause]] Bravo! He's gonna get the same amount as...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u224	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u225	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The reason for this bill written about a dozen minutes ago: the purpose of the bill is to revalidate the error that took place during the examination of the Senate's amendments to blah, blah, blah. All you had to do was write three sentences. It takes two pages. All you had to do was write three sentences: Sorry, we hit each other. Dear doctors, vote for the Confederation and Korwin-Mikke. Ha, ha, ha! They're gonna lower your taxes, and you're gonna make more money, because we're not gonna get it for you. More than three words. Ladies and gentlemen! You just screwed up, yeah. That's it. You voted wrong. You should have said "sorry," that's all. Mr President, here is the Sejm, Parliament. What was in here yesterday? There was a panic last night. You just stood there and was a crisis staff. What's going on? What did we just do? You should have acted quickly. You didn't react, you didn't react, unfortunately... And the application to TK signed it? ...and tonight you're throwing this raccoon with a new bill written in five minutes, really looking pathetic. You will of course push it through, of course you will push it through, because you have a majority in this House. But just so you know, this looks disgusting. And today, during those protests that are out there, which, of course, I don't agree with. I'm a little afraid the doctors might join you there after that decision you're about to make. Nurses, paramedics.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u226	Eleven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that the Prime Minister is leaving because he would see what he will be voting on in a moment. Because you want to vote on a bill that contains three dots. That is the custom now that in the article. 1 is, after the words "COVID-19" parenthesis, and then three dots? You don't even know what you're voting on. And if someone writes a couple of stars that people scream on the streets, will you vote too? You guys gonna like this, too? [[Applause]] Bravo! That's what legislation is all about today. There used to be talk of a rational legislator. Don't get excited, man. There's been talk of decent legislation. There's no decent legislation here, no ordinary decency. Compliments of the Constitution. Even that's what you're missing. And this project you're putting forward here is worth as much as your representative said - nothing. He didn't say anything because there's nothing to say about it. It's just bullshit and bullshit. You should be ashamed that you bring something like this to the High House at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u228	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Words have come out here that you should be ashamed of yourselves. Shame on you because those people who have been working very hard since March, every day... That's why we want... Madame, my wife works at the COVID hospital in the O.R. and I know what she does every day. That's why we want people like that... You know what happened at the beginning? You didn't even want to erase them. Every day they asked for it... 100% more for people like that. That's what this bill is all about. ...so they can have tests. That wasn't an option. Today, when you say 200% for those you wish to guide and those who should teach them... You say there's no money for them. Look, you've made this House, I don't know, a circus. Read the project. What is the legislative process? Ladies and gentlemen, the unfinished legislative process, and we want to change that. This is the Seym? Look, this is worse than a circus. And you're a clown. Really, ladies and gentlemen, come to your senses. Those people who have been working since March really deserve it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're just saying... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u230	Ms Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u231	I get this information from Lubuskie voivodship: hospital in Dresdenk - no equipment, no ventilators, no cure, and the voivode made this hospital a COVID hospital. More marches. How are doctors supposed to heal? They don't have any equipment, and they don't have any incentive. At the hospital in Gorzów, nurses are secretaries and people who swab because they lack people, they lack supplies. How are we supposed to make it up to them? They leave their families, leave their loved ones behind to make up for the exhausting shifts, and you don't want to make it up to them? No, you can't do that. You can't do that. You have to appreciate those who work hard. They work hard because they have to do it because they have a sense of mission, they want to do it, and you want to share it again. Divide it into those who will send a voivode, because it will be yours. And those who are now working hard are not theirs and they are not entitled to it. Disgraceful! Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u232	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u233	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not a week has passed, and the majority of the Polish parliament spit in the face of women, spit in the face of entrepreneurs who form commando companies today, and spit in the face of doctors and medical services in the same week. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Right! Really get it together, because otherwise, the wheelbarrows under the Seym will be waiting for you in a moment. Get it together because you've lost your basic ability to control what's going on in the country. Really, we're following. There's one last moment to clean up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u234	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I wanted to address the applicants, because I see that they are not very active in this debate, they are ashamed or afraid. Perhaps Mr Macierewicz would like to tell us something interesting. He was so active yesterday and today, and now I can see he's falling asleep in the Parliamentary benches. First of all, I wanted to ask you who misled the President, Prime Minister Kaczyński, since he lied from this speaker. Perhaps he was misled by television, so-called. public television for PLN 2 billion. I would like to remind you that in the High House there is a project for the allocation of PLN 2 billion instead of lying television for health care. [[Applause]] I wanted to ask the Poles and Poles a question because I know that you do not have the courage to answer. Or would they prefer people like you to treat them who wasted 70 million on pseudo-boroughs who wasted money on fake ventilators, or do they want heroes to treat them - doctors, nurses, health professionals? The answer is self-evident. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Then don't take people out on the streets. Is that a concern for doctors?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u236	Mr Joński, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For respirators, masks, tests, and with trimmers, you gave your own at the Ministry of Health 30,000 each. bonuses. $30,000. It's not the officials. It's yours. Scandal! This is where you medics want to split into better and worse. Shame! Thieves! I appeal to you: Get out of this, or the protesters will be joined by the medics tomorrow. Cheaters! And we'll be with them. We'll be with them. One more thing, taking the opportunity. There is no Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński, but I want to be very clear. There used to be Gaddafi, there used to be Ceauşescu, and they thought they could do anything. Until then. Stand down. [[Applause]] And now there's Budka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u238	Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, over 18,000. disease, more than 236 deaths. For six months, the PiS hasn't prepared. Poland to pandemic and we have this effect. Your Minister of Health, Szumowski, has deserted. What do you have for doctors, nurses, paramedics? These are the people who deserve this money. What are you guys doing right now? You're still trying to divide them. This is an outrage. This is a disgrace, because in a moment there will really be no one to treat Poles. Such decisions are really ruining the health care that is absolutely at the edge of the abyss. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u240	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 18 820 new cases, 236 new deaths are today's accounts. More marches. Ladies and gentlemen, who's giving and taking, this one's going to hell. But you guys should have been in this hellhole a long time ago. You should be in hell for not having a school opening strategy. You should be in hell for no strategy at all for a second wave of pandemic. You should be in hell for the weird shopping you guys did in the spring. You're supposed to be in hell for sleeping through the summer, taking care of yourselves, the choices, everything about government reconstruction. Except I'd think about it if I were you, and think about it individually, because in a moment's time, maybe his or his family's life will depend on those you want to rob. Because what you're doing is this bill you're trying to rob doctors. Therefore, vote for the motion to reject this law at first reading, which we have filed, because perhaps you will save the lives of someone in your family. [[Applause]] It's demagogy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u242	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition Club. Oh, there it is. Now the economist will come out and tell us what's really in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u243	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kaczyński! I do not know who has misled Prime Minister Kaczyński because he said that it costs 40 billion PLN, and that is not true and you should conduct an investigation in your club to tell you the truth of your fellow Members. The truth will set you free. Secondly, we all remember pictures from TV - paramedics all day in suits, all day without meals, they take care of COVID patients all day long, doctors on duty all day, 15, 20 doctors per month in infectious wards. You gave them money yesterday, you said they deserve it, and today you say no, we take away what we haven't given you yet. That's not true. It's a lie. And you gave you 2 billion zlotys each year. If you want the truth and treatment of patients, each Pole, then take [[♪ The bell ♪]] That money on TV. It's a lie. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Club of the Civic Coalition. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kaczynski, absent! Your time has passed. This is a very important bill, because it shows the helplessness of the Law and Justice, the helplessness of the PiS government, shows that the king is naked. Yesterday we made a decision, together, building capital, this human capital, the most important one, because it is doctors, nurses, nurses, paramedics, diagnes, health workers - they will save Poles. Today Poles already know: the PiS government does not want to save them. Why? Because the money that has just been spent on human capital, to fight the pandemic, you want to take it away from them today. And that money belonged to them, and it belonged to them. Prime Minister Kaczyński, today we ask: Do you know the proverb: who gives and receives, the one is in hell? Everyone's gonna ask you that on the street from tomorrow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u246	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not long ago, in the context of young doctors from the piS politicians, there were shameful words: let them go. And on government television, they were often slandered and talked about caviar sandwiches and luxuries where they claim to be swimming. Let me remind you: in the government media for which you allocated 2 billion PLN at the beginning of this year. Why am I talking about this? Because the estimated cost of entering into force today for the second time of the proposed law in the context of increases for medical practitioners is just PLN 9 million. This is almost 8 times less than the May Sasina elections that did not take place is more than 200 times less than you spend a year on propaganda in your public media. So I will ask with stubbornness the maniac: Whose side will the PiS government stand on, whether on the Poles' side and their health, or on Jack Kurski's side? So answer the most important questions for citizens: Will the government, in such a dramatic pandemic situation, get courage and money... Thank you very much. Instead of his propaganda, he's gonna make a well-deserved raise for the medics? Did... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u248	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The following conclusions were put forward in the discussion: - to reject the draft law at first reading, - to proceed immediately to second reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in a moment. Mr. Marshal, but we had three speeches, and you didn't take it into account. But the list was closed. You should have checked in. But we didn't know that. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Time out. Sit and vote. What break, what break, heroes? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 717 will want to press the button. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] For accepting a motion for rejection, of course. For accepting a motion for rejection. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Za - 213, against - 229, 2 abstentions. The motion was rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is for the immediate accession to the second reading of the bill, contained in print 717, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It doesn't match. Waldek, how long is it? Cabaret. Just a moment, because there's some difficulty with the connection. Yeah, yeah, you're missing voices. You guys are laughing, but these doctors really deserve it. 'Cause it's not gonna be right. He'll agree to anything, take it easy. Prime Minister, something about this majority hasn't been right lately. Who else needs to be called? How can you believe such results? We know it's a scam, and you know it's a scam. Please announce the results. They'll be here in a minute, take it easy. Mr. Marshal, can I make a formal request? Now it's a vote. There's gotta be some kind of recess committee. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sit down and calm down. I'm sitting still, you're just manipulating the results. You're not calm. You're bothering me again. What can you do? I had to get up in extraordinary mode... It can't be like that, because you're manipulating these results. But with what? Who has access to this system? Just you guys. You walk around, you tell me how many votes you have, how many votes you're missing. How do we know it's true? Relax, sit down. You're trying to figure it out. He's right. Do you want me to trust you? 443 Members voted. For - 233, against - 208, holding down 2. Mr Nitras is right. This is a scam, not a vote. You're the last person we trust. You know that. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is manipulation. I'm declaring half an hour off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 04 hours 20 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. In connection with the decision of the Sejm, we proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the project? Yeah, yeah, we're in the voice. Yeah, we got calls. You're welcome. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. Three, three, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome. Three, okay. I take it I can't hear the opposition anymore. Three minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Woś, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this debate has turned into a raccoon, and that's what it has to be called - a raccoon that the opposition has set up. The scale of demagogy and cynicism in these days, on the days of a serious fight against pandemic, for human health is simply appalling, dear country. She's shocking. Why? Because two numbers are enough: one - 77 billion. We have talked about this many times in every debate about health care, but I think we need to do it again. 2015 - 77 billion, 2020, ladies and gentlemen - by more than 40% more, 109 billion for health care. And I will not talk about what happened in 2010, 2011, 2012, about the freezing of funds, ladies and gentlemen. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] What was the budget? Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is about the support of those heroes who are on the front line, those who fight COVID, directly fight COVID. And instead of supporting, jointly and severally supporting the common good, and supporting some budgetary arrangement, the state is cynically using this moment. Personally, I also take this as a person who thanks these people warmly. And here, in the Polish Seym, I thank everyone who fought for health and life, including my family. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't be cynical, because fighting a pandemic is really something that the United Right Government is dealing with and can handle, Lord God. Oh, that's great. I'm applying for an immediate transition as a result of all these emotions and manipulations to the third reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] As soon as possible, maybe we can get through this without discussing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u250	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not only for the selected, the supplement not only for some, the supplement not only for the distinguished, because all those who fight on the front line with COVID in different hospitals and facilities, are 100% due additional remuneration. We don't have our permission to divide. We do not have our consent to segregation because there are no better and worse heroes who work in other institutions than COVID and also expose themselves to infections, who also participate in the provision of health services to patients with COVID. Appendix of 100% salaries are the minimum of health care personnel. Medical workers did not have a dedicated government shield, which is why it is so important that this amendment adopted by the Senate yesterday by the Civic Coalition simply remains. Stop burning your emotions in the country and sending militias into the streets. Support the health services with us. There are doctors among you. Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]] It was our amendment. Don't hide behind the voting system and don't hide behind the president. Do not take part in this glaring injustice. Don't do it, join our motion to reject this drop-in, pending no second-reading mode. Ladies and gentlemen! At the hands of Marshal Terletsky, I'm filing a motion to reject this drop at second reading. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u252	Thank you. Mr... And Mr. Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition, is taking advantage of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Kaczyński confessed to something very important today, he said: we have degraded this House. And just today, in this project in the pill, we see how much you have degraded this House. Because it's not a project, it's not a rule debate. This debate is about lack of decency. Because the power that hits the medics at the top of the epidemic is just obscene. But it is also a debate about great contempt, because this project is such a symbol of the eternal great contempt of this power for heroes who fight daily for the health and life of Poles. But it's also a debate about disregard. About disregard, because this bill is a symbol of disregard for doctors, nurses, salons, technical or social workers who fight for our health and life. Disrespect by this authority, because the sentence changes in 24 hours. And there is an old saying: Whoever gives and receives, he is in hell. And today you can feel those hot chairs, you can feel them burning back. But the real hell will be given to you by the Poles if you support this project, and nothing will save you. And one more thing. You're complaining that doctors don't want to go on posting. But how are these postings supposed to go, since you treat them in such a vile way, think about it yourself. Therefore, with us, reject this indecent, disdainful and disrespectful act on the lost vote of the medics. And really, there's only one good thing you can do today, and do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u254	Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with a correction. This was the amendment of the Left, originally by John Szopiński, but in the Senate it was tabled by the Senator Necessary. [[Applause]] It is worth referring to the consequences of your sloppy legislation. Last night's bill, including the votes of the PiS Members, representing 20 people as paralysis of their will, will soon go to the Senate. It's hard to tell how fast she'll be being processed today, but in the worst case scenario, after 30 days, she'll be on the president's desk. I have a question for you, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, who is the real head of our tortured homeland. If the President doesn't sign a bill that includes a 100% supplement to the remuneration of health workers who put their lives and health at risk every day, fighting the virus, a law that also contains a number of other provisions limiting the effects of the COVID-19 and countering the spread of the epidemic, who will be responsible for this state of affairs? This responsibility is not only the financial impact, but also the possible victims. If the President signs the bill passed last night, all the provisions of the Act will enter into force before the provisions of the Act of 717 Print, which is now in force. In that case, all health professionals will receive an allowance only for a month, maybe two. Is this supposed to be the construction of the IV Republic of Poland, the country that gives and receives, a state based on legislation similar to the poor commission exam of a student of the first year of law? The virus is sneaky, but with adequate protective measures, such as a mask and a suit, you can protect yourself from it. What can we do for the medics? What kind of suit they're gonna wear to protect themselves from the sneaky power that one day gives and the next one picks up? And the only explanation is a wise phrase of convalidation. Now it's specific from my district. The county hospital in Puck - the decision of the voivodship transformed into a hospital of COVID. There are 69 COVID beds in the Excel table, which the Minister of Health has in his computer. In fact, the beds that have staff are 30. If it's so good, especially on national television, why is it so bad? This is Poland, Prime Minister, Poland district. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Poland, in which the compatriots fight jointly and severally with the death and soullessness of power. This is Poland, which raises its head and which has gone out on the street for dignity... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u256	Thank you very much, sir. You've already finished your speech. Mr. Marshal, on behalf of our club, we are making amendments to this bill. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When I look at what PiS is doing with this bill today, it reminds me of a situation when journalists asked Cristiano Ronaldo if he knows why more and more people don't like him. He said it was easy: because I'm handsome, rich, and I play soccer great. You guys at the PiS today have the same problem. You think you're great. And in practice it turns out that Poland under your rule is less managed than a C-class football club. Gunshots. Wrong comparison. That's the truth. I know exactly that this government during the epidemic is needed by Poles like a fish towel. I don't think the programs you're making make any sense. Today, the best example is one more law on the health system you have taken. In the first sentence of the statement of reasons, you write: it is intended to eliminate oversupply of certain medical services. Is it in Poland that there is an oversupply of medical services? It's not like people can get to the doctor. People in Poland only see doctors on TV, and it's still how they fly, Doctor Quinn or Dr House. An illustration of the health care system under your rule is a situation that everyone in Poland saw in Tarnobrzeg. To get a prescription, you have to take a bat and hit the windowsill, and they'll give it to you. That's what you've done today with the health system. Who wrote you the reasons for this bill? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Quiet! Abolition of limits... A three-year-old child in a fever? That's what you're good for. You should write another bill today. It's a PSL... A bill in which the PiS government will give money to all those who are going to a private doctor today because they can't get into public health care. PSL offered a hero bonus - it was at the turn of March and April when doctors and nurses worked the hardest. And what did you propose? You offered them a round of applause. Today, you're in history. You are the first government in the world to lower salaries for doctors and nurses, our heroes, during the epidemic. It's a lie. Don't lie to me. Lie! Lie! Lie! How can you not be ashamed? In one day, you've brought this on. I think after what you've done today, all the doctors and nurses know that PiS are frauds. [[Applause]] That's right, liars. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u258	You know, I've heard all kinds of nonsense in this room, but you seem to have crossed a line. The truth hurts. Lucky for you... Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For starters, I have seven-second footage. Focus, this is important. In Teleexpress, it was so important. The Member plays the recording from the tablet: Doctors, nurses, paramedics and all health care, heroes of the fight against the koravirus - their effectiveness results from the work of the government and parliament. And what happened at the beginning? You cut it out. Government and parliament. The effectiveness of doctors' work is due to the work of government and parliament. My predecessor, Mr Klimczak, said that you offered a round of applause, on April 7th, you stood and applauded the doctors who were fighting the coronavirus. Meanwhile, these applause, coming out, are due to you, so it was said in TeleExpress that the applause is due to you, it is you, it is your effectiveness. What did you cut out? Member, I am speaking now. I would very much ask you to wait your turn. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know you'd love to, but I'd really like you to wait. The situation you're leading up to... In this vote, I won't be angry anymore, because of course, as I said in the previous speech, you guys just hit each other and that should be the justification. The rapporteur should come out here and say, "We are sorry, we are fixing, and we are not inventing some deep phrases about what the situation is like." On the other hand, we have an opposition that says: give more, give yet, but does not give solutions very much. We talk about these solutions all the time: money is missing. Why money is missing, because unfortunately the situation is that you have led Poland and Poles practically to a full lockdown. In a moment you will announce it, it is not yet announced, it is called the red zone for now, but we have almost 0.5 million Poles in quarantine, we have closed companies, we have closed gyms, saunas, swimming pools, restaurants, pubs and many others. All schools will be closed soon. All these people don't work. If they don't work, they don't generate income for each other. If they don't generate income, they don't pay income taxes, because if you don't have income, you don't pay income tax. You're gonna get poorer on this. Where are you gonna get the money? You're gonna print another dozen billion zlotys? And did you guys see what gold looks like at this point compared to what happened a few months ago? How much does the euro cost today, and how much did it cost six months ago? That is the result of your governments, that is the result of such wrong decisions. This is how it has to end. We've been saying from the beginning that this is how it's gonna end. You should have listened, not said everything had to be the way you wanted it to be, and the opposition had to sit quietly and possibly join in. So that's the consequences we've been telling you about. You should have listened. And today you have to fix what you just screwed up yesterday, only what I'm talking about will be revenge on Poles for the next years. Thank you very much. That's it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u260	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Questions. Since, at the time of the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading... Objection. ...after serving the text of the amendments to the Members. If I don't hear any objection, and so on... Objection. Objection I hear, so we will vote on this objection. We are voting on the proposal to proceed to the third reading of the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of entering the third reading of the bill will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal, you might want to pay attention, because like everyone in the masks, it's all the Prime Minister in the mask, we're in the masks, and Macierewicz without the mask. Elite, elite. Get him out of the room because we're all wearing masks. 444 Members voted. For - 231, against - 213, no one stopped. So the Sejm accepted the offer. In order to provide you with the amendments, I am announcing a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 06 hours 21 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. Mr. Marshal, I wanted a formal motion. Yes? Yes. Did you file a formal application? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm Health Committee, which adopted these regulations, which today the Law and Justice want to change, gave a positive opinion. The Sejm Health Committee has a majority in the form of Members of the PiS. In our country, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, the Deputy Minister and 17 Members did not know what they had voted on. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Left Club, I would like to have the opportunity and opportunity to present the amendments that we have prepared for your bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u262	Thank you. It wasn't a formal conclusion. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. First? Third. The Sejm conducted first and second readings. A summary of the amendments tabled was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for printing No 717. We proceed to the third reading. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 208, against - 233, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a new title of the draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr Marshal, I would like to ask whether voting amendments without a legal opinion will be an interpretation in this House as of today. That's right, that's the vote on the amendments you made. Is that how it's gonna be? Other laws, too? It's like that all the time. 446 Members voted. For - 204, against - 236, 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 1 draft law. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 3 and 4 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 206, against - 234, 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 207, against - 231, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Za - 203, against - 236, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The two draft laws propose that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2023. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 208, against - 235, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety, in print No 717, will want to press the button. Disgraceful! It's fucking weird. Who's against it? Who's holding back? See how you voted so we wouldn't have to come tomorrow. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Let's vote so the doctors get raises tomorrow. Maybe the resummation will be here soon. We're gonna have to cancel or we're gonna lose. Your list needs to be uploaded to the hospitals from tomorrow, your names. [[The bustle, the fun in the room.]] 446 Members voted. - 231, against - 212, 3 abstentions. Disgraceful! Disgraceful! The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crisis situations related to the occurrence of COVID-19. [[Game in the hall, applause]] The Sejm has passed a law on amending a law that he has not yet passed. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 20th session of the Polish Parliament. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. As the first with the statement by Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] There you go, Mrs Monica Falej, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise the problem of those who referred to themselves as children of war, those born before May 1945, who could not fight the occupier because of their age. However, they are hard-experienced by World War II. Among the children of war there are many orphans of war, disabled people, people with severe war experiences who survived them as children. Even though the children of war are registered with the D.A. Veterans, it's the members of the association who don't have the veteran powers. This is an inconsistency, or maybe a political decision, which excludes many millions of members and members of our society from accessing the benefits of the veterans. The law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression does not include them in the powers resulting from it. Currently, the whole of Poland is a red zone. Currently, none of the elements of government anti-crisis shields are directed to more than 2.5 million Polish citizens and citizens over 75 years of age. We have to be clear. It is a group of citizens living on the border of poverty, often with only PLN 1100, 1600 zł pension. These are, of course, measures that do not satisfy any needs, even the basic ones. Further amendments to the anti-crisis shield do not address the problems of those most affected by the epidemic and the crisis, who have been deprived of access to doctors, specialists, deprived of rehabilitation care and similar benefits. At the same time, older people are unable to cope alone with the effects of the crisis and epidemic - without State aid it is simply not possible. The lack of support is all the more saddening that older people are most at risk of coronavirus infection. I therefore call for support for children of war, care for their health, comfort of life and their inclusion in the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and postwar period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u264	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Wanda Nowicka, if she is. If there isn't, then Mr Jan Szopiński. There isn't. Mr. Waldemar Andzel. There isn't. There isn't. Mrs. Margaret Chmiel. She's out. There isn't. Piotr Adamowicz. He's found himself. You're welcome, sir. Thank you, Marshal. The sooner you're done, the sooner we'll go home.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u265	I just canceled... I called my wife and told her I wasn't coming back today because... But I, too, have a wife, sir. There you go. Okay. Dear Marshal, Mr. Speaker! And gentlemen of the Sejm Chancellery! Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank you very much, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, for today's appeal. She called to leave the temple interiors in peace and respect. These are objects that should serve the faithful and not the demonstrations. I accept this appeal and thank you again for this appeal. Compromise according to the dictionary definition is an agreement as a result of mutual concessions, derogations from principles or views, invalid objectives. This was the abortion compromise reached 27 years ago. The decision of the Przyłębska tribunal was initiated, among others. It's a domestic ideological war. Examples. In fact, I wanted to recall some examples from the Internet, but maybe I will refrain because of the importance of the House. However, I would like to remind you that when a total ban on abortion was sought, President Lech Kaczyński was opposed and his wife Maria Kaczyńska signed a statement on this matter. Importantly, at the time, the long-term co-chairman of the joint government committee and the Polish Episcopate of Archbishop Tadeusz Gocłowski was in favour of maintaining the abortion compromise. It was because radical solutions give rise to radical confrontation. And since we have the principle of pendulum in politics, it is important to consider the possibility of a significant liberalisation of the rules. And that's what abortion demands have already appeared on demand. I will not be surprised that thanks to the actions of Mrs Przyłębska and PiS in a few years, or perhaps a little later, abortion in Poland can be available almost without restrictions. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few sentences, I would like to speak from this place about the civil budget, also called participatory budget. The citizens' budget is an extremely important initiative that brings people together and allows their ideas to be realized. This is a democratic process where residents co-decide on public spending in the city for the next financial year. The projects submitted to the budget not only show activity and sometimes the desperation of the inhabitants, but also cases that the city deliberately neglected. If they're happy, for example. new pitches, gyms under the cloud, playgrounds and other recreation places, it is absurd that projects such as modernization of toilets and replacement of cold and hot water in the school building or repair of pavements appear. Projects which should be carried out on an ongoing basis rather than by the authorities of the municipality concerned. According to Art. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 4th Municipal Government Act is part of the municipality's budget, which is why the issues related to them have become part of the financial supervision of the Regional Courts of Auditors. In the previous legal state they were subject to general supervision by voivodships. Unfortunately, although there is still a dispute, who should oversee the citizens' budgets. That is why I am asking for help from this place and once again to examine the principles relating to the creation of civic budgets. After all, it cannot be that some municipalities, as it turns out, distort the idea of the civil budget by pushing their subordinate and urban actors to try to do what belongs to the city as part of the civil budget. After all, most of us seem to agree that it should not be so that the president of a given city uses the budget due to the residents to renovate the toilets at school. That's ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2018 the Sejm of the Republic of Poland established the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptibles. We celebrate this feast on 19 October in homage to heroes who are steadfast, defenders of the faith and independence of Poland. There is a reason why we set this holiday just on 19 October. That day 36 years ago, Fr. George Popieluszko. The abduction took place after Mass in the parish of the Holy Polish Martyrs' Brothers in Bydgoszcz on the way back to Warsaw. The kidnappers were Security Officers during the incident dressed in uniforms of the Police Department of the Civil Police Road. Grzegorz Piotrowski, Leszek Pęczala and Waldemar Chmielewski were members of the independent group of Department IV of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko was beaten, tortured and strangled and then thrown into the Vistula in Włocławek. Pretty likely he was still alive at that point. Popieluszko as a chaplain of Solidarity and a man who resisted actively was hated by that communist authority. He was the target of many attacks by the Security Service. Interrogations, searches, false evidence, and numerous propaganda attacks were not enough for red comrades. The murderers of Popieluszko were sentenced to so-called. the Toruń process. They have already been punished and are at large. The Institute of National Remembrance continues to investigate today, in which it tries to determine who of the most important authorities of the Polish People's Republic ordered the assassination of Fr. The ashes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-28-sejm-20-2.u270	I have good information for you, sir. I listened to your statement as the only Member in the Chamber. You were very lucky, and I was very lucky to have you. That's nice. We're adjourned. Thank you very much. What else is... That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 20th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 21st session of the Sejm convened on 4 and 5 November 2020 was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. One, two, three. That's it. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 57]]
