ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u1	High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - Health-- hour. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 12, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u2	Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in Warmia, Mazury and Powiśle, print No 516. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in Warmia, Mazury and Powiśle (print No 516). I ask you, Members, to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in Warmia, Mazury and Powiśle. On 11 July 2020, 100 years have passed since the plebiscite in Warmia, Mazury and Powiśle. Under the 1919 Versailles Treaty, the inhabitants of Warmia, Mazur and Powiśle voted to join regions in Poland or Eastern Prussia. It was a difficult time for the people openly admitting to Polishness. It's time to have a lot of courage, a fight against discrimination and chase. The campaign behind Poland was conducted by patriots from the Mazury People's Party and many other socio-political organizations who already fought for the right to use Polish language in the 19th century and to liberate local farmers from the power of German landowners. They conducted it under difficult circumstances because the opposite party resorted to dishonest methods - from bribery to acts of violence. The efforts of the population did not succeed in 1920, and the dreams did not come true until 25 years later, in 1945. On the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in Warmia, Mazury and Powiśle the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to forgotten heroes. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in Warmia, Mazury and Powiśle. Mr Grzegorz Braun with a formal proposal. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u3	I bow down. God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After yesterday's séance of propaganda of success in the performance of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the controversy continues. They are so radically opposed to the substance and legal importance of the commitments that Mr Morawiecki, on behalf of the Lightest Republic, had made at the summit of the European Union. Hence, the request for a break to convene the Seniors Convention in order to put on the agenda a real discussion on this fact, to which this discussion would be based simply an urgent translation a vista of this document, which contains these controversial commitments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it treason or great success? Let's find out. Thank you, sir. Mr President, I am not declaring a break and I am not calling the Senior Convention. Request for a recess. No, sir. It's a request for a break to call a senior convention. I'm not calling the Senior Convention. You know perfectly well that this subject was raised yesterday at the Sejm meeting... It turns out that it was not, because the text is not known to the public or to the High House. ...therefore, sir, we will not vote on this. I understand you'd like more. Thank you very much. The text of these arrangements is not known.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice, also with a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're celebrating the National Police Day tonight. I wanted to ask the High House to rise and a minute of silence, to honor the memory of the officers who died during World War II who were murdered in Soviet Łagra. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Give them eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon them. Give them eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon them. Give them eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon them. Amen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u6	Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as well as Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Mr Wojciech Sharama and Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Spring drought and summer rains have shown and continue to show us how important it is to manage water resources and microretention across the country. One of the many aspects of the environmental negligence of our predecessors in the PO-PSL coalition was the lack of real and effective measures related to financing widely understood retention. Many municipalities in Poland notice, notice the improvement of the situation in recent years, but of course the scale of needs is huge. Dear Minister, From yesterday, local government units can reach for assistance in carrying out retention tasks in rural areas. The announced recruitment is part of the wider activities of the Ministry of Climate Protection and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. At the beginning of July, he started to recruit proposals for a programme of up to 5 000. zł grants for household rainwater retention or melting installations. It is said that the development of microretency is the basis for saving agriculture from the effects of drought. Dear Minister, In the so-called. The green investment package, which is aimed at different beneficiaries and amounts to nearly PLN 8 billion, is also a lot of proposals prepared by you regarding this small retention. In this context, I would like to ask you about the possibility of obtaining funding for the implementation of retention tasks in rural areas. I also wanted to ask if there is a long-term strategy in this area, because, as I said at the beginning, drought and floods are connected and here is a necessary programme that will link the issues of these two disasters and prepare Poland, Polish agriculture, Polish farmers and the Polish village for this situation. A small retention may be one of the solutions here. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u8	Thank you very much, Member. The answer to the question will be answered by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate, Minister Ireneusz Zosta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u9	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for that question. It must be said that in recent years we have seen an increasing drought phenomenon, but also climate change causing heavy rains, very quickly rising, so-called. Instant floods, flooding in both urban areas - we have recently seen this in Warsaw, where there have been difficulties in passing the main communication arteries - as well as, above all, in rural areas. This village should be the beneficiary of actions against desertification, against droughts, against heavy rains. The Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the Republic of Poland, conducts activities aimed at protecting Poland both in urban areas and in rural areas against floods and these drastic climate changes. For example, I will say that the retention level in Poland is about 6%. For comparison in Spain - 40%. Therefore, we cannot be illusioned at the moment that we have the time when there is rainfall, and this should calm us down somehow. On the contrary, we should put in place solutions which, in a uniform manner, allow for the management of rainwater. And so, dear country, the Ministry of Climate provides support from the Operational Programme for the implementation by cities of sustainable rainwater management systems involving solutions in the field of green and blue infrastructure. So far, financing agreements for more than PLN 1 billion have been signed. The selection of applications for funding is currently underway, the allocation under this call, which will last until 28 August this year. This is the amount of PLN 60 million. But in order for me to make good use of the time which has been given to the answer here, first of all, I will refer to the question which you have asked. Namely since yesterday, from July 22nd through the national environmental fund, which is the operator of this program, the Ministry of Climate introduced a scheme of retention in the countryside with a budget of PLN 50 million. This is a programme where there is no upper limit to the funding of the proposal and the grant can be up to 70% the eligible costs of the project concerned. Of course, this may be due to the exhaustion of the envelope, but the programme will be implemented by December next year. If the resources are exhausted earlier, as the Member here rightly pointed out - thank you for being seen - these activities of the Ministry of Climate - the Ministry of Climate has prepared a major programme: adaptation to climate change and mitigation of environmental risks. This is one of the 26 programmes included in the green investment package. The total value of all programmes is PLN 7.8 billion. This rural retention scheme is dedicated to local self-government units in rural areas, cities up to 5 000. residents. But that's not all. There is a programme with a budget of PLN 100 million from Norwegian funds dedicated to cities under 90 thousand. residents for the construction of the so-called. green and blue infrastructure, which is also intended to serve water retention where it is simply a gift of nature, where as rainwater should be reclaimed. In accordance with the Water Framework Directive, the European Union Directive, we should aim to re-re-re-re-cate water in the place where it accumulates, without causing it to flow into watercourses and through the floor creates risks of sub-melting and flooding. The adaptation to climate change programme and the reduction of environmental risks with the budget of PLN 553 million are also implemented in the field of drought prevention and management of rainwater. I must also mention the extremely important programme that you have put in place by the Minister for Climate Affairs, but at the initiative of President Andrzej Duda. This is about my water programme, which is very successful. This is a subsidy of 5 000. zł for one installation in the area of a house tank for the collection of rainwater. I would like to say that within just one and a half months (the bell) 10,000 were submitted. applications for the amount of PLN 48 million. If earlier the budget of the entire programme, which was planned for PLN 100 million, is exhausted, then I am convinced that further actions will be launched, because, as I said, the issue of water retention, prevention of drought is a priority for the Ministry of Climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question was asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. Do we have a connection yet? You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u11	Dear Marshal! Minister! Thank you for such a factual and comprehensive response. I must say, this answer has exhausted the marks of my second, additional question. However, on the occasion, I would like to ask about retention tanks, but this time built in urban areas. Let me give you an example: the city of Gliwice plans to build a large retention tank in a place called Wolf Bottoms. The entire investment will take about 10 ha and will be located in the vicinity of the housing estate. However, these plans met with a different view of the residents, who emphasized that the construction of the tank in its planned shape undermines the hope of preserving the natural value of this area and deprives the inhabitants of the only natural settlement in this part of the city. Therefore, I would like to ask: How does the Ministry intend to promote such investments, which are undoubtedly important and, in turn, encounter obstacles in the form of disagreement between residents and local authorities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that the Minister will not be able to give a full reply at the moment, so I will gladly pass on the necessary documents to the Minister on this matter and ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u12	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you, Minister Ireneus, to gain an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, It must be said that this is a single example of a project which, in the intention of a local government unit, is intended to improve water retention and positive environmental impacts, but it turns out that the public opinion does not approach this with full acceptance, because there is an environment that should be preserved as an environment, as a result of a tradition, a landscape, its natural values. I think there is a need for consensus here at the level of public consultation. This is the responsibility of the municipality authorities - the council of the municipality, the executive body - the governor, the mayor, the president. I think that if there are social protests there, they should first of all be taken into account, because every investment carried out in the commune should meet with the acceptance of the local government community, which are the inhabitants who live in the commune. I'm gonna move on to the climate ministry policy. We support every action of local government units, which has the task of preventing drought, water retention and improving water conditions, detonating cities, improving retention, making cities more green, more friendly space for residents, and, as I said earlier, this should be done with public acceptance. It is worth adding that, as regards the programme that I have already mentioned from the Norwegian funds, this agreement was signed in February by Minister Michał Kurtyka, it is the value of PLN 100 million, which are dedicated to cities up to 90 thousand. residents. The decisions of individual local government units depend on which investments will be undertaken. Or just investments in infrastructure so-called. green, urban park equipment, some pedestrians with plantings, or water reservoirs, water mesh that will give people breath on hot days, but will also improve water retention. It's a decision. Only in the competence of the local government. We, on the other hand, create a programme framework, conditions to make good use of the resources that have been earmarked for this purpose. I would like to emphasise very good cooperation with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in this area, which is the operator of all these programmes. This is today the six large programs that I mentioned earlier. I don't think this is the end of the water retention area. I think, as I said earlier, that if the funds allocated to these programmes run out, we will launch another, together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In one opinion, I just want to add that not only the Ministry of Climate, High Izbo, is implementing programs related to water retention and prevention of drought. I would also like to highlight the very good work and policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development... Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: ...which together - I am already finishing, your marshal, one sentence - with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture runs very large programmes dedicated directly to farmers who can use them, for example, for the construction of new wells or water reservoirs that will serve the agricultural economy in their farms.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the second question, prepared by Members of the Civic Coalition, Tadeusz Aziewicz, Agnieszka Pomaska, Małgorzata Chmiel, Kazimierz Plocke, Sławomir Neumann and Jerzy Borowczak, on the negative effects of the acquisition of Lotos SA Group by PKN Orlen SA. I would like to ask Mr Tadeusz Azievic for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The acquisition of the Lotus Group carried out by Orlen raises concern not only in Pomerania. The reality of concerns about the negative effects of this concentration has recently been confirmed by the European Commission, making its approval conditional on Orlen's full fulfilment of the drastic conditions that imply the actual dissection of Lotus and question the meaning of the implementation of this project, both from the point of view of the Polish state and the interests of the State Treasury. I would remind you that these conditions are among others. Of course: disposal of 30% of the shares in the Lotos refinery together with a powerful package of management rights, disposal of about 400 petrol stations. There's a lot of these conditions. I don't have time to discuss them all right now. Therefore, we ask the following questions: Does not deprive the Lotus Group of key assets violate the strategic interests of the State Treasury and undermine the sense of this concentration? What is the total value of the package of remedies proposed by Orlen and accepted by the European Commission? How will 30% of the shares in Lotos refinery be disposed of with the accompanying management rights package? Is the investor known and what is the value of this transaction? What safeguards does the seller intend to introduce so that Lotus' assets as a result of subsequent resales do not fall into the hands of entities whose activities may be contrary to the Polish state? Do you, as the body responsible for proper care of the interest of the Treasury, consider making Orlen withdraw from the takeover of the Lotos SA Group, which I strongly urge you to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u16	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Maciej Małecki will answer the questions raised. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Consolidations of fuel companies are a European trend, are a global trend and have already taken place in a number of European countries such as Norway, Spain, Austria, Portugal, France. Poland is the only such case where two companies of the Treasury compete on the same small market in the fuel sector. We really need to catch up today. The merger of Orlen with Lotus is catching up, those actions that have not been taken by our predecessors. French Total, Norwegian Equinor, Spanish Repsol, Portuguese Galp Energia, Italian Eni, Austrian OMV or Hungarian MOL can already compete effectively on international markets because they are after these processes. Today, when I listen to the questions of Members of the Civic Platform, I would like to believe that these questions are motivated by a genuine concern for Lotus, and I feel that this is not the case. 10 years ago, in 2010, it was not someone else, it was the Civic Platform that sold almost 11% Lotus action. You didn't protest back then. Your leader, your champion Donald Tusk, didn't rule out the sale of Lotus even to the Russians. Where were you then? Did you protest then? Look at that logic. Selling lotus to the Russians - okay, no problem, the platform will sell lotus to the Russians. That's what you let go. Consolidation of the fuel sector within the powerful Orlen Group, which will be able to compete effectively in international markets - that is the problem. We'll never get along in these situations because we don't want to sell Lotus to the Russians. If this transaction had been carried out in the past, today we could have had more expansion in international markets, because in all these markets - I mentioned these companies - consolidation did not disturb competition, but gave impetus to changes beneficial to customers. In Poland too, the consolidation process will not disturb competition. It will be beneficial for individual consumers, for the economy and will be beneficial also for Orlen and, above all, for Lotus. Ladies and gentlemen! Lotus is a group, a consolidated company around the refinery. You call it quitting fossil fuels, talking about clean air, about ecology. What does that mean for Lotus? That means he was systematically falling on the market. there will be a share of fuel-driven vehicles and increased - vehicles powered by other ecological sources. Now this connection with Orlen means the future for Lotus. Taxes from Lotus will stay in Gdansk. Lotus together with Orlen will engage in CSR policy also in Gdańsk. As for the conditions, on 14 July Orlen received a positive conditional decision by the European Commission on the merger. From the point of view of the Treasury, it is essential to assess the impact of the remedies imposed by the European Commission on the economic interests of the State, in particular the energy security of our country. The Ministry of State Assets shall cooperate with relevant authorities and bodies within the central administration, including in particular those appointed to take a position in the field of energy security and critical infrastructure. Full assessment is possible only after the potential buyers and conditions of the transaction are known. We will prefer the transaction of converting assets in Poland into assets in another country, so that this will enable the business objectives of the new merged company to be achieved and to continue to expand on foreign markets. The Council of Ministers shall give final consent to the consolidation of Orlen and Lotus. And I stress: taxes stay in Gdansk. The combination of Orlen and Lotus means a stronger concern in Pomerania, with a much safer [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a better future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. With a supplementary question by Agnieszka Pomaska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Minister, as Prime Minister Morawiecki and other members of this government is in the habit, does not answer questions, but, above all, attacks the opposition. Disgraceful! Is this the role of the Prime Minister's representative? I don't think so. Minister! You haven't answered any questions. You've received five questions, you've received them in writing before. Why didn't you just prepare yourself? Why are you telling some bullshit about what happened, about someone trying to sell something to the Russians? This isn't bullshit. I'm asking: Who's gonna buy this 80%? Lotus station? Aren't they Russians? Is that your guarantee? Do you have a guarantee that all this will stay in Poland? After all, this is what the European Commission has decided, that there should be a deconcentration, that there should be a sale of national assets. The state is so often talking about a sale of national assets. So where are you guys now? How do you guard matters that should lie under the responsibility of the Polish government? You're not doing anything. Minister! You have five questions. I expect you to simply answer them, and you will not wash the eyes of Poles. And one last thing. Where are the Members of the Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] From Pomerania? One. There isn't. I want to see them here, and I want them to answer those questions, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u20	Thank you very much, Member. In response to the question, Minister Maciej Małecki, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The speech by the Member shows that it is possible to achieve the Himalayas of hypocrisy. Specifically. Get to the point. Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Remind me: you sold almost 11% in 2010 Lotus action. Only in 2010 did you sell your national assets for more than PLN 22 billion. That's what we spend every year on the 500+ program. Was it 500+? Oh, 500+. What did you do with the money? How much are you selling out? Your leader Donald Tusk allowed the sale of Lotus to the Russians. Remind me, please, when you were blocking the ridiculous idea of your bosses to sell the lotus to the Russians. I look sympathetic to Mr Tadeusz Azievicz... Forward. ...with whom we worked for many years on the Board of the Treasury and on the Energy Commission. Mr President, you also spoke in the briefing in May 2010 about the privatisation of Lotus. Then... We were looking for an investor with access to the deposit. But we didn't. You've always needed a foreign investor. This is what your other leader, Janusz Lewandowski, another leader of the Civic Platform, said: our family silver is Wawel, the Rospuda Valley or Wieliczka, but not the state-owned company that left us with socialism. Five questions. Answer the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, these companies had to be built as we consolidate them, not sold out. This is not the way to build the future of Poland. Questions! And now... Questions! There are five questions here. You haven't answered any questions. Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Orlen's profit during the Platform's period 2008-2015 - 2.9 billion PLN. Remember these numbers. 2020 we got it! Between 2016 and 2019 - nearly PLN 23 billion. Aren't you ashamed? Get to the point. Lotus in the times of the Platform in 2008-2015 - just PLN 186 million. From this it affects CIT to the budget of Gdansk. Investment program, man. Lotus between 2016 and 2019 - PLN 4.7 billion in profit. If it hadn't been for the decisive attitude of the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński, if not for the attitude of the Members of the Law and Justice, perhaps you would have sold Lotus to the Russians and today we would have been in a completely different place. But you're here to answer questions. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a basic thing. And whoever these assets go to will decide... Once again, this is a decision. Councils of Ministers - after strong analyses, after ensuring good competitiveness [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the market and the good future of Lotus, e.g. on very powerful investments, several milliards, in wind farms in the Baltic, because such a trend will be determined by PKN Orlen. Discredited, Minister. Shame! Here the transaction will be conducted in such a way that the energy security of the country, the safe future of Lotus and good conditions of competitiveness in the fuel market will be ensured. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, with what conclusion, in what way? With a formal request for a recess. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! I'm filing a formal request for a recess and to call the Minister to order. The Minister is here to answer Members' questions, not to instruct the opposition. The Minister has the right to his own opinion, of course, but we are here to talk about the future, to talk about the future of Orlen, about the future of Lotus, about the future of Polish companies, and not about what happened, especially since you often miss the facts. I ask you, Your Marshal, that you, too, in view of the need to discuss and answer further questions, call the Minister to order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u24	Thank you very much, Member. We are not voting on this proposal right now. However, I ask the Minister simply to reply in writing to the questions asked to the Members who submitted them. Precisely. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by the left club, Krzysztof Gawkowski, Marek Rutka, Paulina Matysiak, Karolina Pawliczak, Wanda Nowicka, Jan Szopiński, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Katarzyna Ueberhan, Monika Falej and Tadeusz Tomaszewski on the uncontrolled export of amber from the site of the excavation site. The question to the Minister of State Assets is asked by Mr Marek Rutka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Due to the significant progress of earthworks, including the work carried out in connection with the design and deepening of the watercourse in the area of the investment, Mon. The construction of a waterway linking Vistula Bay to Gdansk Bay, please specify the quantity in kilograms or cubic metres of fossil coniferous resin obtained or, in rare cases, resinous deciduous trees from a group of bobcats commonly known as jatarem or amber. At the same time, please state the name of the licensed entity that is involved in the turnover of the above mentioned. excavation and identification of the entity to which the funds are made from its sale. It should be stressed that the price of amber is several times higher than the price of silver and may be up to 20,000. In 1 kg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u26	Thank you very much, sir. I ask for your reply from Minister Maciej Małecki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The excavation of Wiślana Mierzia is implemented on the basis of the decision of the Pomeranian voivodeship to allow the implementation of an investment in access infrastructure under the name of the "Building of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk in the Elbląskie County in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship. The investor is the Director of the Maritime Office in Gdynia, which is supervised by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. In preparation for the investment, geological studies were carried out to document the resources of amber. After carrying out the tests, the Minister of the Environment approved the geological documentation of the amber deposit in the category D diagnosis, i.e. the lowest category of diagnosis, with a balance sheet of 6.9 t. This investment is carried out on the basis of the provisions of the Act on investments in the construction of a waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. According to that law, where the results of geological works are sufficient to produce geological documentation of fossil deposits, the investor may also apply for a concession to the Minister responsible for environmental matters. The investor does not apply for a concession if the extraction of minerals would be economically unjustified. The supervisory authorities, i.e. the President of the Higher Mining Authority and the Director of the Regional Mining Authority in Gdansk, supervised by the Minister of State Assets, did not participate in the preparation for this investment. The Director of the District Mining Office in Gdansk was informed about deposits of amber located potentially in this area, among others. by receiving the geological documentation of the amber deposit of Fishermen's Angles. Until the granting of concessions for the extraction of amber from the Kąty Rybackie deposit and the start of operations of the mining plant, supervisory authorities, including the director of the District Mining Office in Gdańsk, do not exercise supervision or control over this investment. As of today, the President of the Higher Mining Authority, as well as the Director of the Regional Mining Office in Gdansk, were not notified of illegal exploitation of amber in the area of the investment. There were no and no grounds for inspection by mining supervisory authorities at this point. According to information obtained from the Gdynia Maritime Office, land works are still carried out above the deposit of amber, so there is no exploitation of the deposit. Regardless of the above, I asked the President of the Higher Mining Authority to investigate this case and to clarify the potential issue of the development of amber from the Vistula mine excavation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marek Rutka with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This reply is not complete, at least it cannot be considered complete, because the Minister mentioned that the President of the Higher Mining Authority does not exercise control over this deposit, and according to information obtained from the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Shipping, the progress of the works amounts to 50% I'm gonna go through with this. Therefore, if you receive information from the Higher Mining Authority, I would ask you to send this information to me. At the same time 6,9 t appeared. Yeah, that's the value you mentioned? So I'd like to get some information about what happened to those 6900 kilos of amber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u30	Thank you very much. Minister Maciej Małecki with a complementary answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The size of 6.9 t, I remind you, appears in the geological documentation of the amber deposit Fishermen's Angles in the category D diagnosis, which is the lowest category of diagnosis. And as I mentioned, the work has not yet reached the amber deposits, but I asked both in a telephone conversation and in writing the President of the Higher Mining Authority to take care of this matter, to see to it. This is an important thing, and this is where we're gonna want to keep an eye on this deposit. Thank you very much. Of course, if there is information, we will send it to the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u32	Thank you very much. Another question, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, was prepared by Mrs Bożena Ironowska. This is a question about the decline in the income of local government units. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The year 2020, the year of the COVID-19 pandemic, is extremely difficult for all of us. It has far-reaching socio-economic consequences. One of them is the deteriorating financial situation of local governments. The districts feel it particularly strongly. I am well aware of the situation of the Podwarszawskie powiats: Legionowski, Otwocki, Wołomiński, Grodziski, Nowodworski, Piaseczyński, Pruszkowski and Warszawski western. As many as seven of them pay tribute in Janosik form, whose burden in 2020 compared to 2019 increased from 8% in the Legion district to more than 20% in the Vołominsk district. At the same time, the level of PIT revenue in the first quarter of 2020 is significantly decreasing compared to the same period of 2019. The apparent gap is a clear signal that the time has come for a responsible response from the government. It should be noted that this is an analysis based on data only for the first quarter, in which the full effects of the economic slowdown have not yet been revealed, and the apparent trend is already worrying. We ask the President of the Council of Ministers to take urgent work to introduce precautionary mechanisms similar to those already in operation at voivodeship level in the Act on the income of local government units. Without immediate legislative work in this direction, the collapse of the finances of the counties - so-called payers. Janosik is inevitable, which will be felt by all of their inhabitants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask the following questions: When can legislative work be launched to introduce the proposed solutions? Is the government planning to work on other solutions to help local governments save their finances? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u34	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Sebastian Skuz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will reply under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Payments to the state budget are part of a compensatory mechanism governing local government finances and constitute a solidarity mechanism. It should be noted that this idea is in line with the European Charter for Territorial Self-Government and that the compensatory and corrective mechanism itself exists in the financial systems of many European countries. It cannot be said that any municipality or any district could achieve the same income, because for example. not every town can be a tourist destination, or because of the quality of soil or natural resources. The amount of contributions by municipalities, powiats in the case of so-called. Janosik depends on the rate of tax revenue of the local government unit per capita of that unit, in relation to the same ratio calculated jointly for the group of units, i.e. for municipalities, powiats and voivodships. As far as the change in Janosik is concerned, I can say that the Ministry of Finance recognises the need to reform the income system of local government units in general, including the correction mechanism. Together with the World Bank, the Ministry of Finance worked on the concept of a new compensation and correction system for JST. Despite the positive directional opinion of the representatives of the local government regarding the direction of the project changes, the local government side of the Public Finance System Group of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government indicated that it was appropriate to carry out wider, comprehensive work on the entire revenue system of local government units, not only on the mechanism itself. You can say that this work has already begun. At the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, a team was set up to work in the field of local finance. The team has already started their work. The first inaugural meeting of the team took place at the Ministry of Finance on 28 February this year, but further scheduled meetings were temporarily suspended. I think we'll get back to work now. Yesterday, a joint government and local government committee meeting already took place in a stationary mode. On the issue of local government finances, I would like to say that the most important sources of local government revenue, i.e. participation in CIT, shares in PIT and general subsidy, show amounts of 102% after six months versus last year. What action has the government already taken to support local government units? It can be observed that anti-crisis shields have introduced solutions that have changed the application of the individual debt ratio. The effects of COVID were excluded from this indicator as well as in a permanent manner the costs of debt handling, which was very well accepted by the local government. It is also possible to postpone the payment of Janosik, and the Ministry of Finance has been given the opportunity to accelerate the payment of the subsidy instalments. As regards the financial support of the strict sense, I would like to say that the Act on Tourist Bones has accepted the possibility for the Council of Ministers to adopt a resolution on the transfer of funds to local government units for investment expenditure. The amount of this support for municipalities and powiats will amount to a total of at least PLN 6 billion, including at least PLN 5 billion for municipalities and at least PLN 1 billion for powiats. I stress these words at least because the amount of the Fund for Local Investment is likely to be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. Will Mrs Bożena Żrołowska ask a supplementary question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u37	I just wanted to ask the Minister because the Minister was kind enough to mention that the work is going on. I would like to remind you that the situation is really tense and concerns this year's finances of local governments. Do we have a chance that this year the government will adopt solutions that will help local governments in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u38	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What I said... Some solutions have already been adopted, e.g. the possibility of a transfer during the payment of Janoskowa and the creation, and the payment from the Fund for Local Government Investments, i.e. at least PLN 1 billion for counties and at least PLN 5 billion for municipalities, are already taken. They will be made this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the fifth question. The question prepared by the club Law and Justice, Members of Mark Polak and Henryk Kowalczyk, on the new matrix of VAT rates and binding information. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The question is asked by Marek Polak, remotely. Is there a connection yet? You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In November 2019 the provisions on a new matrix of VAT rates and binding spot information entered into force, and from 1 July this year. new rates are already in place of the extensive Polish Classification of Products and Services. The review of the matrix shows that the government has reduced VAT on many articles related to the daily needs of families, e.g. hygiene products or tropical and citrus fruits which have been subject to a tax of 5% instead of the previous 8%. A similar reduction also applies to products for children and infants, i.e. food, pacifiers or diapers. On the other hand, 23 percent of the rate was reduced to the lowest 5% tax on certain types of bread, cakes and spices. Such a reduction in VAT will certainly well safeguard the interests of a large number of consumers, but I would like to ask what benefits and facilitation will be brought to businesses by the changes they have made, including. the establishment of a joint information binding institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u42	Thank you very much. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u43	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From 1 July, a new simplified matrix of VAT rates has been in force. The matrix is a document which sets out the rules according to which goods and services are combined with the corresponding VAT rates. The most important change is the departure from the qualification of goods according to PKWiU to the well-known companies, much simpler Combined Nomenclature. The result is the absence of many exceptions and sub-groups of goods, which so far have been a nightmare for entrepreneurs. As the Member rightly pointed out, the change is very beneficial to consumers. By uniting the VAT rates, we applied the principle of equation down. The lowest 5% VAT rate was covered by a lot of first-needed goods. This applies primarily to fruit and bread. There was also an end to a situation in which, for example, apples and pears were taxed at 5% , e.g. lemons and bananas - 8%. In total, thanks to the new VAT matrix, some 350 million PLN will remain in Poles' pockets each year. This will have a very real, positive impact on the portfolios of all of us, because the reduction covered many everyday goods. By almost half, just from 8% to 5%, VAT on children's dishes in jars, pacifiers, diapers or even women's hygiene products decreased. The change will also be very beneficial for entrepreneurs. The new matrix of VAT rates introduces a much simpler system of reduced rates into Polish law. New, much more common categories of goods and services have been introduced. This significantly reduced the number of categories of goods which may be subject to different rates. While this was almost 250 different categories by the end of June, there are now about 100, i.e. 2.5 times less. For example, spices are no longer divided into three VAT rates, only one rate applies to them. Similarly, sauces, fruit, bread and pastry products. This change is greatly used by entrepreneurs, because the choice of stakes becomes much simpler. The less different bet options, the less risk of error. However, the new matrix of VAT rates is not the only facilitation that has been in operation since July this year. Entrepreneurs will also benefit from binding joint information. Powers protecting the company have acquired such documents. What's this? These are official decisions concerning the VAT rate which a specific taxable person should apply to the goods or services concerned. And here we do not have to force ourselves to modesty, because this is a breakthrough for Polish business. Binding stand information is a key tool that complements the business protection system against uncertainty about the application of the law. Since the implementation of VAT in Poland, i.e. since 1993, the trader has not been able to confirm the correctness of his VAT rate in a binding manner for the office. Now, after a quarter of a century of implementation of this tax in Poland, we finally close this gap and give companies the highest European level of security of application of the law. What exactly does binding joint information look like? Very similar to the Polish legal order of individual interpretation of tax law which has been in operation for many years. The taxable person shall request it to be issued to the Director of National Tax Information, the application shall describe the service or goods he provides, but the office itself shall specify its category, assign the goods or services to the VAT rate. The fee is 40 PLN for each product subject to it, but what is important, this interpretation will not be used only by the person who notified it by the applicant himself. If received by the manufacturer, the protective power of the joint decision will follow the product for as long as it remains on the market. Secure the wholesaler, secure the retailer supplying the goods to consumers. The issue of binding joint information could be requested from 1 November last year, while, as I mentioned, it has only gained protective power since the beginning of July. The fact that this administration service is known and urgently needed by companies is best demonstrated by numbers. To this day, despite the lack of protective power of this solution, this service, despite the epidemic, has already been spent almost 8.5 thousand. binding joint information, which also means that it is a tool known to businesses that they are willing to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u44	Thank you very much, Minister, for giving such a detailed answer. And Mr Marek Polak with a supplementary question. Do we have a call? We do. You're welcome. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u45	Hello, hello! Am I audible? [[Disruption of reception]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u46	Hello... Well, that's very weak. Unfortunately, sir, I think it will be impossible to ask a question. We can't... Well, thank you very much, Minister. So we will go to the next question, the sixth question, prepared by Members of the Civic Coalition: Izabela Leszczyna, Mirosław Suchon and Barbara Nowacka, on the situation in PKS Częstochowa. The question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! For 70 years Częstochowa PKS has been a place of work for several hundred people, and for inhabitants of Częstochowa the way to get to school and to work. Until 2015 the election was won by the PiS, brought in a briefcase the president, or actually a few presidents, because it was your standard, the last one became the liquidation officer and the company started to wind up. The liquidation of the PiS announced a week after the parliamentary elections last year. It was this campaign where the PiS promised to fight against the exclusion of communication and announced a noisy Bus Development Fund. A week after this joyful information, PKS Częstochowski was put into liquidation. Therefore, on behalf of the employees of the Częstochowa PKS, I accuse the PiS government of the fact that a dynamic company has bankrupted. The employees demand that all the actions taken by the winding-up officer and the President before him be settled, accusing them of taking action to harm the company. You did so with other PKS, also in Gniezno, Lublin and many other cities. Therefore, I have a general question: Will PKS Częstochowski be saved from liquidation? If yes, what is the timetable for restoring the company's liquidity? Please indicate the detailed plan also in writing. Did the sale of the PKS Częstochowa railway station have taken place? If yes, please specify the date of the transaction, the amount for which the station was purchased. If this sale took place, what were you bragging about last time, and just before the election you came to the conclusion that there would be no PKS being liquidated, so if this sale took place, why didn't PKS employees receive the outstanding salaries yet? They didn't get a salary for March, April, June, July (the bell), they were only paid for January and May.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u48	Thank you very much, Member. The answer will be given by Minister Janusz Kowalski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Acts. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because this is an important question. The question about the future of PKS is a question that we have been looking for a specific answer to in the newly created Ministry of State Assets, indeed since December last year overseeing several PKS with the participation or shareholder of the State Treasury. In fact, PKS Częstochowa SA in liquidation is the largest carrier in the Częstochowa macro-region, which carries out collective transport services. It is true that we have taken not only an attempt but concrete steps to stop the liquidation process because the company has been in liquidation since 18 October 2019. At the moment, my own concept of consolidating these PKS assets, which are still under the supervision of the State Treasury, is being implemented within the framework of the so-called. a division cooperating or possibly being part of PKP SA in order to make it a natural synergy between PKS companies and the Polish railway. And this offer will also be an offer for others controlled by local governments of PKS, because the Treasury controls only a few PKS. To respond specifically to the Members' questions, I am trying to stop the liquidation process in the near future. My task, also the will of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, is to rebuild the capacity to complete collective transport services in the macro-region of Częstochowa and in the city of Częstochowa. Indeed, in recent days a transaction of sale of PKP station for the amount of over PLN 12 million has been carried out. I will, of course, inform you by letter about the exact deadline, because these negotiations were quite detailed. At the moment, we are preparing concrete measures so that there is no longer such a threat to the liquidation process as in recent months. Restoring the full operational capacity of this company in the Częstochowa macro-region is my priority and I will act in this respect. I do not hide that I also hope to cooperate with the local government, because the task of the commune, i.e. the commune of Częstochowa, President Matyajczyk, is among others. organisation of collective transport, and therefore cooperation with entities such as PKS in Częstochowa. I do not hide that I am also opposed to this policy, which has been continued so far, i.e. the sale of PKS assets. Other valuable properties in the centre of Częstochowa are among the assets to this day. We have a plan on what to do with them and how to make the assets, its value and the value of the company grow. In conclusion, at the moment we already have the directional consent of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin to build, consolidate those PKS assets which are under the control of the State Treasury, within or in cooperation with the PKP Group on this issue, operational activities with the Management Board of PKP SA. I hope that this information has somehow reassured you and the parliamentarians. I want to thank the parliamentarians of all options for their interest in this matter. The issue of collective transport is a very difficult and very complicated issue, and therefore a trans-political agreement is always needed, because regardless of who is a partner or partner is the Treasury or partner is, for example, a partner. a government in which politicians or Platforms, or SLDs, or Laws and Justice exercise power, it is worth to have consensus on these issues. To answer specifically - PKS in Częstochowa will not fall and will not be eliminated. We're rebuilding his abilities. This is our goal as the newly established Ministry of State Assets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u51	Minister, I would like to believe you, and on behalf of the staff, I would like to say that I am pleased. On the other hand, I do not know if you are trying to shift responsibility towards a self-government which, as we hear in many questions, is in a rather difficult financial situation today. You didn't even refer to what I was talking about. The presidents appointed by the PiS acted to the detriment of the company. That's the indictment of employees. That's one thing. Secondly, why is it that, if it is what you say it is, workers get laid off and are listed on it: because of liquidation? Unfortunately, most of the time, those who have gone to the parliamentary office of one of the members of the PiS feel sorry for this situation. Does the Minister know about the computer failure and that, according to the employees, computers have been exported from the company in order to remove, as the employees claim, the data that would incriminate the liquidation company and the previous president?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u52	Thank you, Member. Minister Janusz Kowalski with an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u53	Thank you again for this question. In the Ministry of State Assets, we have created a completely new supervisory team that oversees the transport sector, i.e. railway companies and PKS companies. We have carried out specific audits over the last few months, including among others. the audit of this company. I am absolutely ruthless in drawing consequences for anyone who has led to the State Treasury's assets being reduced. If your words prove true, then the consequences will be, and I have no doubt about it, and I want to reassure you. On the other hand, responsibility, I am absolutely clear, responsibility for the status and for the state of PKS in Częstochowa today lies in the Ministry of State Assets since January this year and from this responsibility I absolutely do not run away from it and do not evade it. But in the government for five years, almost. On the other hand, as I said, we are currently implementing the concept of consolidation in the bus division of these assets in the Ministry of State Assets. This concept will also be a good forecast of cooperation with other local authorities throughout Poland, which can be a partner for the PKP Group. I am committed here to you and to all the Members who were involved in the rescue of PKS in Częstochowa, that I will be transparently communicating the nearest actions concerning this company, so that there is no doubt, because this issue from a social point of view is absolutely crucial, because, as I said, it is the largest carrier of collective transport in the Częstochowa macroregion. If we make a decision in a moment, and the decisions are already made, concrete corporate decisions, I will communicate them myself and to all the Members who have been involved in this process. Our goal is to rebuild the power of this PKS, because unfortunately in the case of several companies, their status is also left, the period of Coronavirus was not conducive to the restoration of potential. We also have good companies, such as Polonus SA, which is a very well-managed company, which has huge potential, and around this company, of course we want to integrate other assets. In conclusion, responsibility has been on the side of the Ministry of State Assets since January. We don't run away from this responsibility. I will be transparently communicating about the next things, and to all the guilty ones, if they were in any company, such consequences will be absolutely brought out by me, here I have no resistance. Our goal is to multiply national assets and no party card will protect any president, member of the supervisory board or manager from avoiding this responsibility. That's my commitment. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Barbara Dziuk, Grzegorz Wojciechowski and Robert Warwas, Law and Justice, have prepared a question on additional financial support and compensation for nurses and medical staff during the COVID-19 pandemic. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the outbreak, the government guaranteed the care of all those affected by the COVID-19 epidemic and introduced regulations limiting the employment of employees of single-name and infectious hospitals in other units. As a result, one-named hospitals received additional compensation. And here I have a question to the Minister: What is the additional financial support, compensation for nurses and medical personnel during the COVID-19 pandemic? How many medical personnel have received this support? What amounts were paid and how much was the average compensation for COVID-19 per medical worker? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u56	Thank you very much, Member. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u57	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The pandemic period, these last few months, was the time when we were all faced with new challenges that have not yet been present. Not just in health care, but in our entire public life. These challenges gave rise to some concerns among employees, among others. health protection, although during pre- or post-graduate training they were prepared to act under conditions of epidemic risk. However, at certain times emotions were triggered, causing this fear to grow. The fear of infection was sometimes very strong and therefore the Minister of Health, together with the current government, both took concrete measures to strengthen health workers in order to create safe working conditions for them through, among others. the provision of personal protective equipment, disinfectant fluids, i.e. those which guarantee the safe pursuit of the profession, as well as a number of measures aimed at improving the conditions of remuneration. First of all, I would like to emphasise first of all that the question of the remuneration of staff employed in medical entities is the task of the director of the medical entity. Therefore, the government decided to strengthen the funding of individual institutions, especially those that dealt with the treatment of patients with COVID-19, i.e. single name hospitals as well as infectious branches, which declared their willingness to treat patients with COVID-19. A wide stream of financial resources has been addressed to these hospitals, which have provided opportunities to raise the salaries of workers employed in those medicinal entities. I would like to stress that the increase in expenditure or increase in funds that have been transferred to medicinal entities has increased in the range of 74% , therefore, this was a clear increase in the financing of these hospitals, while at the same time supporting, as I said, personal protective equipment, which could have reduced costs. But regardless of the component of the increase in funding that gave directors the opportunity to raise their salaries, the Minister of Health decided to increase the remuneration of workers who were restricted to the entity that deals with patients from COVID-19. This limitation concerned workers employed both in single-name hospitals as well as in infectious wards. Since some of these workers provided work in other therapeutic entities, the reduction resulted in a reduction in their budgets. The Minister of Health therefore decided to compensate those workers. Where an employee is subject to an obligation to ban work in another therapeutic entity, 80% compensation has been granted. gross remuneration received in another entity, but this amount could not be higher than 10 000. zł. The increase in salaries was also covered by workers already employed in these medicinal products. In this case, wages have increased by 50%. For this purpose we have allocated PLN 51 179 220. Individual voivodships, depending on the number of single name hospitals and staff employed there, received specific additional funds. The largest stream of funds has entered the Mazowieckie voivodship, where the voivodship received funding... Hospitals, medical entities received funding of over PLN 19 million. As far as the Łódź voivodship is concerned, the funding amounted to over PLN 5 million. In total, as I said, it was over PLN 51 million. How did this translate into an average employee's salary? As regards doctors, on average this monthly compensation amounted to PLN 4785, while in the case of nurses - PLN 2111, medical rescuers - PLN 2669, other professions - PLN 1643. This was, as I said, compensation for employees employed in single-name hospitals for their obligation (the bell) to limit the place of employment. I would also like to stress that the staff of medicinal entities under the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific solutions related to prevention, combating and combating COVID-19 have been subject to a new regulation. In the event that the workers have been sent to quarantine in connection with contact with a patient with COVID-19 or have themselves been ill with COVID-19, they have the right to a sickness allowance of 100%. the basis on the basis of the provisions on monetary benefits. So the government has also shown far-reaching support for these workers in view of the fact that they may have been infected with the coronavirus in the course of this work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will ask a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u59	I would very much like to thank both the Minister and the Ministry of Health for the measures taken to pay an additional salary. I have a question that connects to this whole area. Namely a wide, numerous group, which was very exposed to infection, were seniors. I would like to ask the Minister for information on what the government has done in this area to support the DPSs, the day-to-day aid centres for senior citizens. This is, I would say, an important element, because in the media one could hear that many of these centres did not cope with this fact. I would like to stress that these centres are under the management of local government officials, who also struggled with these problems. Did the government prepare an offer and support these departments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u60	Thank you very much. I think that question goes a little beyond what's being said. But you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u61	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Seniors were a risk group, people who were particularly susceptible to coronavirus infection. Therefore, they should be given special care and appropriate standards should be applied to prevent the transmission of the virus. Especially seniors grouped in one place of residence in a larger number, i.e. in the DPS, whether they were staying in care or care and care facilities - we saw this on the basis of experience - during contact or, let's say, in contact with a person who was infected, very quickly became infected. The transmission was very fast. There is little evidence that the course of COVID disease in seniors was more dramatic. That's why we decided to specially protect seniors. This protection was to be relied on, among others. on the fact that we have prepared a project that awarded these social services houses or health care and care establishments that organize a rotating work system and employ employees only in a given entity. The aim was to avoid the migration of workers, e.g. from hospitals to social services homes or from acute hospitals to care and care facilities, because such migration was the biggest threat due to the transmission of the virus. The medical entities or DPSs that have introduced such a system of work will receive additional funds for salaries for workers. About PLN 250 million was allocated for this purpose. At the moment, the National Health Fund is already under way, under which the directors of medicinal entities, ZOL-i, care and care establishments will be able to apply to the President of the National Fund for compensation for staff employed in the rotation system. On average, we expect a compensation of more than 2,5 000 for those employed in this scheme. PLN for the nurse, for the paramedic, for the other workers - in the amount of 2100 and 1600 PLN for the staff. Where such a system of work is declared in one therapeutic entity, these measures shall be provided in such a way as to compensate for the possible loss of income of those workers in respect of the provision of work in other establishments prior to the pandemic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think this is the way out. opposite and guaranteeing the safety of seniors in 24-hour care facilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by the members of the Civic Coalition, Gabriela Lenartowicz, Eve Kołodziej, Rajmund Miller and Marta Wcisło. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The so-called situation. One-name hospitals and those departments that treat patients with COVID-19 are becoming increasingly difficult and dramatic. This illustrates the number of interpellations. I've looked it up in the system -- over 200 on this issue. There are staff appeals. There is a recent letter and common position of directors of single-name hospitals, as well as dramatic appeals from local authorities, which fear that access to healthcare will not only be granted to COVID patients. These appeals are addressed to the voivodships and to the Minister of Health. Unfortunately, they remain unanswered. On 14 July, even a special meeting of the Health Committee was convened at which we were to hear the Minister of Health's information on the current state of single names, infectious hospitals and the state of their preparation for a possible second wave of infections. Well, that information wasn't there. It was a whole list of statistics without answers to actual questions. And these main challenges are the principles of financing these hospitals, leaving medical staff, the lack of clear, safe plans to return hospitals to their original activities, but above all access to treatment for residents not only those... It's not like COVID hasn't eliminated any other diseases. However, we have heard from the deputy president of the Bernard Waska National Health Fund - I quote - that, in general, the financial situation of COVID hospitals is now excellent and has never been so good. I leave a comment to a colleague who will ask further questions, and to those to whom this answer was addressed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Deputy Minister of Health also told us that the choice of hospitals was primarily based on the availability of treatment. What I'm trying to say is that's not true. Here you go, just a few seconds. That is not true - on the example of a one-named hospital in Raciborz. This is the only hospital in the county of over 100 thousand, which has been turned arbitraryly into a single name, with the liquidation of specialist clinics. Right now, patients, residents of this county don't have access to medical care in the county, and the Ministry of Health is sending him back to the voivodeship to turn him back into a multi-specialist... Okay, Member, because we're really running out of time. ...and the voivode doesn't really have any money, no competence, no regulation. Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Please answer the question when the Ministry of Health will present a specific plan... Mrs. Member! Let's not overreact. It's been a minute, really. ...the return of single-name hospitals to business, a plan to return to the availability of medical care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u64	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Waldemar Kraska, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Not long ago, the Sejm hosted a meeting of the Health Committee, where we presented not only the financial state but also the organization of single-name hospitals. As you know, at the beginning of the epidemic, a few days after the first case that occurred in the country, we decided to set up such single-name hospitals. They were based on a decision of the voivodships and arrangements with medical consultants, also based on WHO guidelines. These hospitals were actually established in all voivodships. There were 22 of them. They were located in such a way as not to hinder patients' access to other benefits. What about Raciborz? Wait a minute, Member, we will come to the issue of Raciborz. At the end of May, there were over 7800 beds in hospitals for patients with COVID, which is a lot. Single-name hospitals have gained very good sources of funding, because in addition to a simple lump sum they also received additional funds for their willingness to treat, for their treatment, for the transport of patients from COVID-19, but also a compensation fee for lost income. For March and April the profit - I stress: the profit - single name hospitals amounted to PLN 168 million. Single-name hospitals also received money during their operation to purchase the necessary diagnostic equipment, medical devices. We have constantly passed on personal protective equipment to them, and we have expanded or modernised the oxygen infrastructure, because we know that in patients with COVID-19 there is an increased demand for oxygen. That is why we have allocated over PLN 7 million from the budget for these hospitals. I think that the decision to set up single-name hospitals was very right, because this has led to the fact that the effects of the pandemic are incomparably lower than in Western Europe. At the moment, on July 9, we have 20 single-name hospitals, two hospitals have ceased to be single-name hospitals, i.e. Hospitals in Wolicy and Gdańsk. And right now we have 3867 beds in single-name hospitals for patients with COVID-19. Since the beginning of the epidemic, 13 141 people have been hospitalized in hospitals with one name. These places were much more prepared, because at the time when it was decided to set up single-name hospitals, after what we saw, what was happening in Western Europe, and after consulting national experts and consultants, we came to the conclusion that unfortunately there could also be such a big wave of this epidemic. And that's why those beds were so much more. So I'm glad that not all these beds, as well as the ventilators, were used. I'll quote that in April there were these... Minister! What's next? It's not a story. What's next? Okay, we're coming. Member, but please... You asked a question, you've exceeded your time by one minute, and now you're making it difficult for the minister to answer. I'm helping. I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: The average duration of stay in a single-name hospital - this is important - ranged from 5 to 23 days, depending on the severity of the patient's condition. On 7 July the President of the NFZ set up a working group to develop a plan to restore full availability of benefits in single-name hospitals. The number of beds is limited and those single-name hospitals that operate at the moment are already partially accessible to other patients. This happens in many places, and I think the hospital in Raciborz is an example. I think the clinics have already been opened. As far as the hospital in Raciborz is concerned, the hospital gained a single name - I stress: it gained - over PLN 3.5 million. So I think it was a good time for the hospital in Raciborz. A team was set up at the Ministry to prepare the strategy for the so-called. Autumn, which is about the second wave of the Coronavirus epidemic. This work will end at the end of August. I think we'll be ready for this from September. We had one-name signals from hospital directors that there are staff problems (the bell) because doctors are leaving, staff are leaving these hospitals, which is why today has been published, tomorrow enters into force, a regulation that says that there will no longer be a regulation that works only in one place. This will depend on the decision of the director or head of another institution, which may be exempted from this obligation. Thank you. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. With a supplementary question from Mrs Ewa Kołodziej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! How dramatic the situation is in single-name hospitals, I don't have to explain it to the ministers because you know best. At this point, I would like to follow the example of the Provincial Specialist Megrez Hospital in Tychy. It's an institution of phenomenal reputation, working for years on patient trust. Today, on the other hand, it is a single-name hospital that is struggling, like every single-name hospital, with many problems. My questions: Does the Ministry, however, consider moving away from the centralized model of fighting the epidemic, since this model did not fully pass the test in practice? Especially since patients did not stop getting other diseases, other diseases. What is the ministry's idea of emerging monstrous staff shortages in single-name hospitals, which do not allow the normal functioning of these facilities, other departments? How can you imagine securing all other medical services, apart from those related to COVID-19, for the inhabitants of individual regions? And finally, it's time to ask about the financials. After all, all these changes (the bell), first the transformation, then the deformation of hospitals cost, add: they cost astronomical money. Who's gonna pay for all this and when? Because we don't want to drive these hospitals into a long-term financial collapse. Thank you. I ask you very warmly to answer these questions now, because these are very important issues that need to be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u68	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by Minister Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, She referred to an example of the hospital, that is, Megrez, in Silesia. During COVID, this hospital gained income of over PLN 3 million. He also received funding to upgrade his oxygen apparatus. Indeed, the director of this hospital complained that his staff were leaving. Massively. They're leaving massively. Therefore, from tomorrow this regulation will apply, that medical personnel do not need to work only in single-name hospitals. As far as funding is concerned, I think it is very important that all hospitals that have been turned into single-name hospitals received for January and February for this lump sum of 284 480 thousand. zł. In the next two months, the average March - May, all those hospitals, which were already one-name hospitals, received 434 881 thousand. zł, i.e. they are on the positive side, by more than 150 million PLN more. Really, ladies and gentlemen, this is a lot of funding, but we had to compensate these hospitals for the moment when they couldn't provide services to patients other than COVID disease. These places may have been too many, but no one had at the moment when these hospitals were formed, knowing that this wave of epidemics would not be as big as in Western Europe. That's why we're gonna reduce that number of places in the fall. At this point, these places are almost 50%. less in single-name hospitals. The team that's gonna work out the standard for autumn will tell us how many of these places we're gonna need. This also depends on the epidemiological situation in the region concerned. Thank you very much. What about the second wave? You have to have a plan B for the second wave. That's what I'm saying. There's a team that'll work out the standards by the end of August. It's not just about hospitals, it's also about testing techniques, it's about who we're going to test, how we're going to test. Perhaps there will be a second wave of COVID, but there will also be a wave of flu. So I think it should be, and it is to a large extent our problem - that we should equip the family doctor or hospitals, SORs or emergency rooms with certain instruments to diagnose these patients well at this first stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Edward Sark and Norbert Kaczmarczyk from Law and Justice on the involvement of the Polish Hunting Union in the fight against African swine fever. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u71	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, Minister, how the Ministry of the Environment is dealing with African swine fever right now. It has been a very hot topic for several years, actually for several terms, and it has shown that the state has unfortunately failed to cope with this severe illness. Unfortunately, for the previous coalition, the fires that were in Poland were not eliminated in any way. Later, in our previous term of office, we had great problems with African swine fever. Farmers struggled with these problems. The farmers' visits to the agricultural committee were frequent. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I therefore ask the Minister of the Environment about these matters because recently this subject is not in public space. I would like to ask you what security measures you have made, that the situation has improved at the moment, in this last hunting season. And give an example of what you're doing, because you're going to be a minister of the environment relatively soon, and it's going in the right direction. I would like to ask what's next with regard to African swine fever, and I would like you to tell farmers here who are wondering if we're going to be safe about production, if we're going to be safe, if we're going to shoot wild boars off. I would like to ask, first of all, what safeguards you have made, that this topic is not in the public debate, that we are not still scared that breeding in Poland will be closed. And please answer the question about the example, what were the actions and how quickly they were implemented, since the situation has improved at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u72	Thank you very much, sir. The Environment Minister Michał Woś will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u73	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! First of all, I want to emphasise what we always say on this occasion, that the problem is not wild, they will not be wild, but the problem is ASF, the fight against African swine fever. And it's the government's absolute priority. This fight's still here. undertaken very effectively in the previous term of office, then there were organisational activities, among others. Minister Kowalczyk, Minister Golińska, then Specialist, for whom the Ministry of Environment had a significant contribution. After all, the European Union recommends - this is the basic recommendation of the European Union in relation to the fight against ASF - two actions. The first is the reduction of the population or the thinning of the feral population, which of course carry African swine fever, the second is bioinsurance. And you can say that in both these ranges last time brought a lot of things you can boast about. Of course, there was COVID, there were other factors. Perhaps that's why there's less talk about ASF, but the government has something to be proud of about fighting ASF. In the same period in 2019 the number of new outbreaks... in 2020 the number of new outbreaks decreased by 60%. In Poland we had several new fires, when in Romania, for example, we had 1163 fires. It has been repeated many times how the Germans deal with ASF, that the Germans killed a million boars, not a million, but 800,000. with a hook, and the previous season in Poland was in this respect - and here great respect for this gigantic work done by the Polish Hunter Union, by Polish hunters - exceptional because they contributed, they joined in the fight against the disease, joined the fight against ASF and the previous season ended in Poland at the level of 412 thousand. wild boars. 412,000. While there were a hundred and tens of thousands in previous seasons, this season ended at 412 thousand. In comparison, those Germans who were doing well had 1.9 average wild boar on one hunter, in Poland hunters over 3, 3.2 wild boar on one hunter. This shows the effectiveness of Polish hunters, good action. I would like to thank you for this good cooperation of the Minister of Environment, the Ministry of Environment and the Polish Lodz Union, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr Giżyński, under the direction of Minister Ardanowski, of course, is effectively coordinating these things. More than 100 million are allocated annually from the state budget to such activities. There's also a gigantic commitment of the hunters themselves, because of course, on the one hand. this is the implementation of guidelines of the Polish Łowiecki Union, which are further implemented by Polish hunters on the basis of guidelines of the European Union. It is about thinning the population, making the wild population not very dense, because this, of course, harms from the perspective of the Polish pig breeding country, the economy and farmers. We also need to look at the environment, what the ASF looks like, how it goes, how much these animals are getting tired. So the fact that we're effectively fighting ASF, also in the natural environment, is a very good thing. There are bio-insurance activities, the other side. Only recently, over 20,000 have been trained in the last few months. persons. Cooperation between hunters, foresters and farmers has been greatly enhanced. This collaboration, this triad is very important, because then it brings good results. The involvement of State Forests is also important. The last months are over 400 km of fences, which cause that we are not dealing with as massive migration of wild boars as until recently. It's also a financial commitment. After all, the State Forests carry out these fences with their own resources, and these are not small costs. You can count the involvement of the Polish Hunting Union. If you look globally: work related to bioinsurance, preparation, workload, you can calmly estimate the savings of the state budget thanks to such involvement of the Polish Łowiecki Union for about PLN 0.5 billion, i.e. these are really very serious measures and the gigantic involvement of these three communities that I mentioned. This is also due to some facilitations in the law and organizational facilitations that took place before [[♪ The bell ♪]] a koravirus, but also before introducing a specialty. For that, I want to thank the people involved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. With an additional question, Mr Edward Sulfur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is known that in our legal system, the Polish Hunting Union is currently a very important function in Poland on behalf of the state, leading the hunting economy. One of the elements of this economy is, for example, what we are talking about today, the fight against ASF and sanitation. I wanted to ask the Minister about this element of sanitation. Namely, in addition to normally executed hunting plans hunters carry out sanitary gunshots, they are executed throughout the country. Therefore, I wanted to ask you how many boars were caught as part of the only sanitary discharge. Second thing. If we're talking about wild boars, when we're talking about game, hunters also pay serious amounts for hunting damage. What amount for hunting damages was paid to farmers by the Polish Hunting Union in the previous hunting season? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u76	Thank you, sir. I would like to invite the Minister very cordially to answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's all sanitary fire... As part of the sanitary blasts... Out of this number, 412 thousand. collected wild boars from 1 April 2019 to 31 January 2020, such is the current data, i.e. 25 804 wild boars, as part of the sanitary discharges, which, of course, aim at thinning the population, as I mentioned. As for hunting damages, this is indeed an important contribution of the Polish Hunting Union, Polish hunters, such a point of very close cooperation with farmers, for example, but also with foresters, because hunting damages are also paid by State Forests. Last year it was about 100 ml PLN, 93 million to be precise. I'm talking out of my mind, but I'll be more specific, and I'll check and I'll pass it on to you. This is nearly PLN 100 million allocated from the Polish Hunting Union, from the hunting economy conducted, not from the state budget. I'm sure that's something to appreciate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u78	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Andrzej Gawron, Jerzy Paul and Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice. Question on support for the transport and tourism industry addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u79	Dear Marshal! Minister! Coronavirus has caused problems for many industries in our economy. Of course, these problems have particularly affected the general public transport sector. Companies that report to me also run various services. These are regular transport services, transport of children to schools, tourist transport or e.g. transport to workplaces. Unfortunately, closed borders, schools, educational establishments, workplaces - all this caused the demand for this transport to be significantly limited. The companies are in big trouble. They are practically threatened with bankruptcy, because the cost of maintaining these companies is constant, and currently there is no revenue. There was aid that we adopted in the Sejm, a standard one, for companies, but the situation of transport companies is probably special. Minister! I have a question: How does the Ministry assess the situation of these companies and what action is it possibly taking in this sector? The point is that next year's school year, and hopefully this will be the standard school year, it would be possible to bring the children to the schools so that there would be regular public transport courses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u81	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! In fact, we can say that we can confirm that with the emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus there has been a drastic fall in passengers when it comes to collective transport, both bus and rail. As a result, bus transport for the majority of businesses became inefficient and resulted in the cessation of service on regular and occasional routes. It is right that, due to the lack of functioning of schools in a fixed mode, only their transition to remote education, as well as the work of a very large part of the workers at home and not in the workplace, the fact that bus and rail services were practically excluded is a good idea. The losses compared to the same months in 2019 are very large. It's an 85% drop, and sometimes it's a 92% drop. There were no passengers, there was no one to drive, and hence the big problems of the transportation industry. When we saw these problems, we were very actively involved as the Ministry of Infrastructure in the legislative work related to the preparation by the government of a package of solutions within the framework of the crisis shield. The legal framework is designed to support entrepreneurs, including those who are involved in road transport. Before I concentrate only on dedicated aid, I would like to talk about a very large amount of help, which was and is directed to all Polish entrepreneurs. It is about assistance, which is provided by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, as well as the one which is provided by the Polish Foundation for Development. After more than 4 months, you can see that these tools and these instruments are effective, that this most important factor, i.e. the unemployment rate in Poland, has increased, but in a minor way. This makes all these instruments implemented by the Government of Law and Justice simply work and work in the labour market. On the other hand, by focusing on those actions which have only been addressed to collective carriers, first of all, I would like to say that by decision of the High House, we have raised the amount of the subsidy to be paid on public utility lines per kilometre. As of 1 April this year, the maximum rate of payment for the car is not 1 zloty, as has been the case so far, only 3 zlotys. This is a very large increase, which was very well received by both carriers working on public utility lines as well as by local authorities as organisers of this type of transport. The increase in the amount of the aid to the car-kilometre allowed for the launch of a further call so that some of the commercial lines on which transport was practically stopped and which had no State aid, no State aid for the transport operations carried out, could be re-armed and could function as public utility lines. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2020, the first call, which was still in force in December 2019, covered 1741 lines with a government subsidy from the Bus Development Fund. On the other hand, in this additional recruitment, which took place in May, an additional 1012 transport lines were charged by the government. So that at the moment, the total government subsidy under the Bus Development Fund was covered by 2753 transport lines. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an image of a government program that was created just to effectively fight the exclusion of communication. We can say that during this difficult time of the outbreak of coronavirus, this program passed the test. Thanks to this support, once again, 2753 communication lines can continue to function. In their scope transport between smaller towns can be carried out, and Polish society has the opportunity to use public transport to larger towns, to the capitals of municipalities, to the capitals of powiats or to the capitals of voivodships, because such communication lines also happen. And in this case, the government's support and intervention and the measurable financial resources that were earmarked for this purpose were, are and will be needed. So that we see very significant progress in the creation of communication lines and increasing interest in the programme, funding from the Bus Development Fund. Moreover, during this year voivodeships (the bell) may announce further calls, i.e. subsequent bus lines may be created. We have signals from voivodships and regions that show that local government officials who see this fund is, and see that it will be - another minute, your marshal, if I may ask - they will also submit further requests to create further bus lines, to give Poles the opportunity to reach and move around Poland, but also to use local carriers who thus have jobs and jobs. There is another important element that has radically helped the collective transport industry. From 1 June the number of persons carried by means of collective transport covers either 100% seating positions, i.e. all seating positions are filled, or 50% all the places. This second solution is mainly used by carriers of places where the number of seats standing on public transport buses is significantly higher than those seated. This has also facilitated the operation of the transport industry and has also contributed to greater revenue from bus operators' tickets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Jerzy Paul. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, mass transport carriers are grateful for the assistance they receive from the government directly addressed to their companies. The Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared solutions to support the transport of passengers, establishing the Bus Development Fund, i.e. the so-called. fight against communication exclusion. Support is provided, among others. on the additional payment of PLN 3 to 1 WOZK, which will be in force until the end of 2020. Entrepreneurs involved in collective communication are concerned about whether such assistance will continue in the following year and whether the government may further consider other facilitations for collective transport carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u84	Thank you. I invite you, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u85	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have already had our first reflections since the 10 months in which the Bus Development Fund has been in operation, i.e. since 1 September 2019. We will apply a large part of them to the bill, and we want to amend it in the autumn so that these changes function from 1 January 2021. Surely the funding that is currently included in this Act, and from 1 January 2021 this funding for a car-kilometre would amount to 80 gr, will be higher. I can't give you the exact value right now. I don't know if it's gonna be 1.5 zł, 2 zł, 2.5 zł, or if we're gonna stay with 3 zł, and it's possible. We will want to make this choice by analysing the actual deficit of all these more than 2700 lines. Of course, we will do it cross-cuttingly, because on one deficit it will be 1 PLN, on the other it will be 2.80 PLN. We're going to want to do it cross-cuttingly so that we can maximize the needs that will illustrate the situation on the bus lines. So that I can first of all ensure that assistance in 2021 and in the following years under the Bus Development Fund will be provided and that it will be higher than 80 gr or 1 PLN, as has been the case so far. We also see the need for further facilitation, e.g. the possibility of concluding contracts with carriers, i.e. the organizer on the line, the local government unit - the operator, the carrier, for a longer period than 1 year, so that the stability of the financing is expected not only for 12 months, but for example. Three, four, five, seven years tops. We will also want to introduce this change so that stability is expressed not only verbally by politicians, but also by law. Dear Members, Thank you so much for these questions. Not further than tomorrow, we have a video conference within the joint government and local government committee where we will discuss collective transport organisations with the county representatives. We also listen to all these signals, opinions and comments that fall from the local government environment, because once again I stress that the organisation of collective transport must take place in cooperation with the government party, which should secure the financial resources and legal basis, but also with the large participation of the local government party, which must diagnose the needs and must, in cooperation with us, want to implement these needs. So that here we are very much looking forward to working with local government. These two thousand seven hundred and dozen lines, which are already supported by the government's bus development fund programme, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just the beginning, at least I hope. In the future, there will be more bus lines and coherent transport connections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question drawn up by Members Lydia Burzyńska, Joanna Borowiak, Anna Milczanowska and Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice on the scale and forms of assistance in remote teaching provided by the Ministry of Digitisation of local government units during the COVID-19 pandemic. The question is asked first by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Responsible government and government responsibility mean actions that guarantee its effectiveness. The safety of children, young people and teachers and their families has been, is and will be paramount to the rule of law and justice. Therefore, when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, the Polish government took almost immediately steps to ensure the safety of the school community. The Ministry of National Education adopted the idea that from 25 March to the end of the school year, teaching should take place at a distance, i.e. took the form of remote teaching. This form certainly required a lot of commitment and effort from both students, teachers and parents. This was undoubtedly a first-time situation for everyone, in which they needed to find themselves quickly and efficiently. With universal mobilisation and goodwill, this has been achieved and the initial difficulties have been overcome, for which I would like to thank everyone warmly at this point. This would not be possible and this situation would not have happened despite the enormous, I repeat with emphasis: huge, commitment and effort without financial and factual support from both the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Digitalization. In view of the above, I ask you, Minister, to reply: What was the scale of the aid provided by the Ministry of Education, but also the Ministry of Digitalization, in the field of remote learning, which funds flowed to local government units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u88	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to answer me, please, Mr Marek Zagórski, Minister of Digitization.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Indeed, it was as you said, i.e. When the decision to close schools was made and the need for remote courses arose, we took a whole range of actions aimed at helping teachers and parents of pupils in this process, school heads, school heads and school heads. Of course, this dimension was related to substantive issues, i.e. the preparation of an adequate amount of content available on the network. Here, indeed, the Ministry of National Education, as well as the Ministry of Digitalization carried out special activities, among others. This is about textbooks, but also the platform Remote lessons, a place that has been visited several dozen million times in a few months. On the other hand, the problem that had to be revealed in this process is the lack of access to appropriate equipment, because even if this equipment was in schools, it was in schools and it was difficult sometimes to distribute it to students and teachers. The reasons for this lack of access to equipment were very different. Of course, they were simply related to the low financial resources of families, but also sometimes the fact that suddenly there were three students at home and two people working remotely and that the amount of equipment that was, was insufficient. From here we made a quick decision, because by the end of March, to try to help finance the purchase of this equipment. This has also been done in agreement with the European Commission, with measures which were originally intended for a slightly different purpose. We moved them with the consent of the European Commission, launching a project called "A Remote School," which started on 1 April. As part of this project, we have created the possibility for local governments to apply for funds for the purchase of computers and software, while qualified expenditure - we have been counting them since 16 March, then in all subsequent editions, I am about to say so - all purchases possibly incurred on their own initiative since 16 March by local authorities could be financed by this project. Importantly, this project was so arranged that the municipalities were sure to obtain funding - municipalities and powiats, because these funds were intended for both types of local government units. The procedure was therefore also simplified, and it was enough to submit an application. Of course, it was necessary to conclude a contract, but practically since the announcement of the program it was possible to purchase with a guarantee of obtaining the funds that we assigned to the municipalities according to a special algorithm. As part of this first project, we reserved an amount of 186 million, out of which 2790 eligible municipalities and powiats until 14 July 2785 received funding for a total amount of 185 044 thousand. 830 PLN. The funds have already been paid to 2767 local governments, five local authorities have not benefited from the possibility of funding, although they have had the opportunity. As this of course met with a very good response and it turned out, which was also obvious that it would be insufficient, we managed to reach another PLN 180 million. This time, in the second edition of the project, which we called the Remote School+, they could only apply for funding from the municipalities. Here were slightly different criteria than originally, than in the first edition, where the primary criterion was the number of students. In the latter case, we wanted to draw attention to those municipalities where, theoretically, these needs could have been greater, i.e. in which large families benefit from or benefit from community aid and support. On the other hand, it was only a criterion of allocation of funds - the distribution of where these computers would eventually end up was still in the hands of local governments. From 15 May to 20 July, 2246 of the total number of 2477 municipal authorities received funding. What was granted was a total of 165 435 thousand. Almost 1800 municipalities have already received funds for their own accounts. We estimate that at least 120 000 were purchased from both projects. computer art that went to the students and teachers. But what's important, they're going to school because they're really going to be in school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. And with a supplementary question from Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this comprehensive information, which shows a multitude, but also the speed of action taken, and I would like to thank all those who have engaged in the support of local government units, but therefore schools, students, teachers, parents. Thanks to these actions, the Law and Justice Government has once again demonstrated, in a situation requiring rapid action, that it keeps its word and takes concrete, real action. I remember, for example, that on the laptops for students promised by the Platform Government and PSL in 2008 we wait until today and we certainly will not. Minister! Question: "What are the further plans of the Ministry of Digitalization for the support of local governments (Dawn), local government units and schools?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u92	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u93	Mrs. Member! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These further plans are actually related to our basic direction of action, because - which is worth emphasizing of course - we are, we have been in an extreme situation. We hope nothing will change, and since September 1st, the children will go to school. Our entire program is focused on raising the level of school equipment. In fact, we have two goals that are linked to each other, namely on the one hand raising the level of broadly understood school equipment, including modern multimedia equipment, Internet access, and on the other hand - of course, all the time about improving the competences of teachers, because one thing is related to the other. Under this plan, the most important project is the National Education Network, i.e. providing the Internet in all schools. And going out a little bit... Because of the natural problems that occurred during the pandemic... I mean, we know that because some of the crews couldn't work, we're gonna have some delay, that in some cases we're not gonna be able to get the fast Internet this year, which was our original plan. That won't be much. At the same time, knowing also that there may be such a risk that there will be a need for further remote activities, perhaps in hybrid mode, perhaps at a point in time, we decided - and the High House also decided - to allocate an additional PLN 50 million for the OSE operator, i.e. for NASK this year. Within this amount, we intend to purchase at least 30,000. Tablets that will have access to the Internet, and the 30,000. Tablets by the end of this year... We hope that earlier than the end of this year, because the tendering procedure has already started, so we hope that September, October will be the time when these tablets will be distributed and will go to schools. I would also like to say that during the pandemic, 760 mobile studios, computer sets went to schools, and within each of them - 16 tablets, which allow us to work as if remotely as possible, which means we do not need to work only in the IT studio, but we can move this equipment from one class to another. And that's where we're going. We are planning, we are, of course, working to finance with those funds that we have at our disposal still within the scope of the OP PC, but also within the framework of the Wideband Fund, which, I would like to say, has also been launched under special regulations earlier this year... We are also going to increase the possibility for disabled students to access the Internet if it turns out that they cannot go to school, as well as we are working on projects that will allow schools to be equipped to an even greater extent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what is to be financed through the national reconstruction programme and from a new financial perspective within the framework of and the Operational Programme - Digital Poland, and other programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm, information will be considered on the anti-crisis shield activities in support of workers, employers and the effects of these mechanisms on the labour market, as requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Anita Czerwinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Pandemic has brought us many new challenges that required decisive action. These are the most important ones, which were intended to protect the health and life of Poles, but also very important, priority has been given to helping and supporting entrepreneurs, protecting jobs. The Polish government has dealt with these challenges, these tasks. On 1 April the anti-crisis shield began to apply, which contained a whole package of solutions addressed to entrepreneurs and their employees. All these instruments were consulted with entrepreneurs and the social side, as a result of a continuous analysis of the situation. As a result of the actions of the crisis shield and the application of the government instruments implemented in it, the support for the Polish economy by 20 July amounted to more than PLN 118 billion and allowed for the protection of more than 5 million jobs. As far as these key mechanisms in the crisis shield are concerned, it is primarily about funding the salaries of workers in order to protect their jobs. During this period, over PLN 12 billion for almost 3 million workers were transferred to support employees' salaries. This instrument enabled employers to make their payments and liquidity available to them. The exemption from social security contributions and the death loans have become very important instruments. An aid instrument has also been introduced for economic and service providers under civil law agreements. I think that each of us, Members who work in our own district, if he has contacted businessmen in his own district, has definitely received this assurance. I can tell you about my experience. I talked to the businessmen. I have been assured that this support has helped them to survive this time, and many of them have even saved their lives. They stressed that the information had reached them in a very fast and very effective way and that they could apply very quickly for these measures. So it is undoubtedly a huge success in the sense that the Polish government could immediately counter the possible negative effects of the pandemic and implement measures that saved jobs, protected jobs and were huge support for entrepreneurs. I ask the Minister, with a question, to ask that she may present all the protective instruments even more precisely, so that she can tell us very specifically, giving us the amounts and figures, the effects and what we know for today, the data, which results from the analysis of the effects, the effects of the crisis shield. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u96	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ms Marlena Maląg, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for letting us talk about the functioning of the crisis shield today. In March, we faced a huge challenge, primarily to create mechanisms to save jobs. It was a priority that was placed before us by the President, by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. As you said, this task has been carried out. We're gonna show it on numbers first and foremost. The labour market situation is checked, translated into unemployment rates. The funding was granted in the amount of over PLN 119 billion. More than 5 million jobs have been protected by the various mechanisms that have been introduced by the first law. Funding for salaries - over PLN 12 billion for about 3 million employees. These funds have been transferred from both the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and the Labour Fund. It's a mechanism that works smoothly. This action is quickly implemented. First of all, we continued to expand our support not only for entrepreneurs, but also for non-governmental organisations, non-profit organisations, for organisations that have a legal title to protect the status of monuments, cultural protection. A broad analysis has been carried out to ensure that the widest possible support goes to businesses quickly in order to save jobs. There were micro-credits, which were mentioned here, 5,000 mechanisms, which were first of all to quickly reach the micro-entrepreneurs. Over 1,900 thousand. applications have been submitted. Today we can say that this mechanism is being implemented on an ongoing basis. Over PLN 8800 million has been paid, including to micro-entrepreneurs, as well as to self-employed people. Loans may be surrendered. We analyzed it, expanded this instrument by the fact that the condition for extension is 3 months running the company. There is no need to submit separate applications, only in the CEIDG database or in the national register these companies and applications are checked by county labour offices. The loans will be repaid. Another instrument is parking benefits, a mechanism of great interest. Over PLN 4400 million was allocated to PLN 2240 thousand. benefits. The mechanism mainly included those companies that benefited from a start-up or small ZUS relief. This is a mechanism implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. As I have pointed out on several occasions, I also thank the Social Insurance Institution very much for the smooth performance of this task. Ladies and gentlemen! Tax exemption, from the obligation to pay contributions by micro-entrepreneurs, by small companies - up to 50%. 6.5 million insured persons have been released. In total, we have allocated over PLN 16 billion for this purpose. What is important when exempting from employer's contributions? The fact that the employee of these contributions was assigned, because the most important thing for us is concern for the employee and the simultaneous maintenance of the company's liquidity. The mechanism of distribution into instalments, which was previously applied by the Social Insurance Institution, has also been enriched with an additional element, which is the absence of a carry-over fee. To this day, companies can still benefit from this mechanism. It is also worth mentioning the mechanisms implemented by the State Development Fund - over PLN 60 billion, by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - more than PLN 18 billion, as well as the mechanisms for the transport industry, as was already mentioned today, prepared by the Agency for Industrial Development. About PLN 40 billion for this purpose has been allocated. As a resort in the first specialty we also introduced remote work. First of all, the government, the Polish state passed the exam of functioning, and this is about practical, not theoretical functioning. We've introduced a remote job into a specialty. Today we are already working on solutions that are about to introduce remote work into the Labour Code. And this is the joint action of the social side and the employers' side. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also discussed this at the Social Dialogue Council yesterday. For parents of children under the age of 8, we introduced an additional welfare allowance. For people with disabled children, the child's allowance is valid for longer, with parents under 16 years of age or even 18 years of age. This benefit has been realized for 5 months. What's a test? Above all, the labour market is checked. At the end of June the unemployment rate was 6.1% , this information is today confirmed by the Central Statistical Office. We have 1 027 000 unemployed people. Ladies and gentlemen! From this speaker in April, the opposition said that we had received 500,000. unemployed persons. From March 15th to today we had more than 100,000. unemployed persons. And those people weren't left behind without backup. Thanks to the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, let me remind you, a solidarity allowance of 1,400 PLN has been established for 3 months to people who lost their jobs just after 15 March and who were employed for the employment contract. This benefit is paid and has already benefited 98 thousand. persons. Some people double because, as I said, the benefit is paid for 3 months. The unemployment benefit will also increase from September. The number of job offers that appear in the Central Employment Offer Base is also increasing. The unemployment rate, so the unemployment growth in the coming months is getting weaker and smaller. If we compare June and May, the unemployment rate was 1.5%. and comparing March to April - over 6%. So we see that these actions are primarily effective. But we also took care of the weakest, the disabled. Thanks to the smooth operation of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, we have introduced additional support mechanisms for people with disabilities. On the one hand, there was an increase in the remuneration payments paid by companies employing people with disabilities. There is also a programme to help people with disabilities who are affected by elements, crisis situations caused by infectious diseases. For this purpose, PLN 124 million has already been spent. Support for local authorities has also been provided. For local governments, we transferred over PLN 0.5 billion as part of additional funds. And the essence of things. First of all, a test of the functioning of the mechanisms that have been developed to save jobs is the situation on the labour market in Poland, which is also assessed by external heating as stable. We've been through this economic downturn as we get dry, and now there's another period, a period of coming out of the negative effects of the epidemic primarily through investment. That is why we are introducing a government local investment programme, a government big investment programme. This is all to restore jobs, but above all to rebuild the Polish economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I would first of all like to thank you for the fact that right here, in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, we can talk about these actions which have been taken for Poles. First of all, we can rely on facts. We didn't have 1 million unemployed, we had 100,000. unemployed who have been secured. That's not enough, we're securing companies to have liquidity, those broad instruments that go to these companies. First of all, the good of Polish families, the good of Poles is most important for us, and therefore the government's actions, in a joint initiative with President Andrzej Duda, will continue in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that 44 Members, ladies and gentlemen have submitted to the discussion. Messengers, come on... At the same time, I would like to signal immediately that all Members will not be able to speak in the debate. This applies especially to those whose names are included in the final part of the list. You can cut it down to 1.5 minutes and everyone can fit in. And that's a good proposition. We therefore shorten speaking time to 1.5 minutes, giving the same opportunity to everyone, including those who are at the end. Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your kind advice. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In that case, I am closing the list of speakers and ask for the floor of Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u99	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! First of all, I'm going to start by handing over my congratulations to the Minister. Thank you for your immediate response, for the immediate implementation of the promised, broad, far-reaching assistance, because it was really needed. Our offices receive these thanks, so I am very happy to pass them on. From the information available to the public, it appears that between April and the end of June this year. The government transferred over PLN 100 billion to save the Polish economy from the negative effects of Coronavirus. Please tell us what the financial results of applying this government support under the crisis shield are and what the objective has been achieved through these actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u100	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's been four months since the outbreak of the pandemic. Granted, Prime Minister Morawiecki claims that it is already ending, but the numbers do not indicate it. But I'm sure the government's running out of help. We're running out of ZUS, we're running out of parking, we're running out of resources that companies got from PFR. However, there are sectors that continue to experience the enormous effects of this crisis and will continue to experience it for months. Let's start with the hotel. The city hotels are set up in the range of 10 and 20%. Travel agencies - totally dead group tourism, cancel all orders until the end of the year. Transport - orders of 5 and 10% compared to last year. Guides, pilots tour despite the peak of the season have no job at all, because there are no tourists from abroad and there are no groups. The event industry has been completely extinguished since April. Beauty industry - as soon as the salons have been opened, the downfalls are 30.50% compared to last year. Gastronomy - in some restaurants 10-20% income compared to last year. In summary, there is a lack of dedicated aid for the most disadvantaged industries, not those where revenues have fallen by 10%, only those where revenues have fallen by 80%. They say you are working on such a law, so I would like to say that it is absolutely necessary to include assistance for small tourism organisers, who are guides or pilots, as well as event, fair and transport companies. Further exemptions from the ZUS are important, including hotels and tour operators. Reduction of VAT on tourism - an idea that is e.g. used in the UK. Reducing VAT for the beauty industry to 8%, this could be a rescue of up to 50,000. jobs in this industry. Improving the liquidity of industries, i.e. after being cheap loans, government subsidies e.g. to (Tourist bus bell) - these are solutions from Germany and the United Kingdom. And please don't answer me that there is a PFR, because PFR concerns a 15% decrease in turnover of companies. , and these turnovers have often decreased by 50-70%. And don't tell me there's a tourist voucher, either, because it only concerns the niche of family tourism... Time. The others want to make it too. Please don't discuss it. ...and does not include pensioners, students, tourists from abroad or the beauty industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Non-governmental organisations, public benefit organisations, all those who operate legally are a very important element of civil society building. They were also affected by the pandemic in terms of revenue. To a large extent, competitions for the organisation of various public tasks have been hindered, and the possibility of receiving support outside the public sector, i.e. willingness to provide donations by entrepreneurs or individuals, has also decreased. Government support for non-governmental actors was envisaged, among others. possibility of exemption from the ZUS contribution fee for employees, parking, but also a loan which is carried out on similar terms as loans for micro-entrepreneurs. Only that for micro-entrepreneurs it is necessary to meet the net annual turnover condition of up to EUR 2 million, and for NGOs, those with revenues of up to 100,000. zł, not more than 10% the value of this impact, not more than 5 000. The question is, where did this $100,000 come from. Evil? This significantly reduced the possibility for NGOs to apply for this interesting support instrument. Here is the difference (the bell) between micro-entrepreneurs and non-governmental actors. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u104	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u105	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Well, on the one hand, we have coritotus and the effects of the pandemic, and on the other hand, at the turn of June and July, the south-eastern districts of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship were haunted by a huge cataclysm: floods, storms. The damage is huge in many counties, the people suffered huge losses. In some cases, the bypasses are completely destroyed, the business buildings. Entrepreneurs suffered huge losses, but also local governments. This was related to the provision of assistance, and now also to the reconstruction of infrastructure. My question: What kind of help can all those individuals I mentioned count on? I asked that question last week, but I didn't hear a specific answer. Aid of 6 000 That's normal, that's standard. But there are huge losses... But it's the Ministry of Internal Affairs. ...and today the local governments are calling, asking when they'll get help when they'll get support. Something's going on here, Mr. Marshal. I would therefore like to ask the Minister such a question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u106	What's going on? Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This time which has touched us all, that is the time of the pandemic announced by the World Health Organization, is not dependent on the Polish government, but on the hand of the Minister I wanted to express my warm thanks for the fact that unlike the actions of the predecessors at a time when there was an economic crisis and then the government did not react, the Government of Law and Justice responded and responded on an ongoing basis. One of the most important mechanisms of interest among entrepreneurs and included in the anti-crisis shields is the funding for the remuneration of workers to protect their jobs. During this difficult period, the pandemic period, thanks to this instrument, workers received a remuneration which they would probably not have received due to the deterioration of the financial situation of many employers who employ these workers. Minister! How important is this source of financial support, the funding of staff salaries during the COVID-19 pandemic? And, Minister, I just wanted to point out one more thing. The Polish government helps employers, helps self-employed people, but also people who had contracts come to me - these are individuals - among others. they leased their premises to commercial premises and do not receive (the bell) remuneration for this reason. Isn't there some construction that if someone is using government aid, then let them do the same so as not to harm others with whom they have contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u108	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is the result of the procedural situation presented to me by entrepreneurs, which occurred as a result of last year's amendment to the Civil Procedure Code in determining the jurisdiction of local courts. As a result of the amendment of the Article. 34 c.p.c. an action arising from the contract, and mostly payment cases, may be brought before the court of the place of enforcement. In the opinion of entrepreneurs, this amendment It clearly favours unfair counterparties, because the trader in charge of payment for the goods sold cannot benefit from the facilitation which was so far possible for him to bring an action before his own court, but must file a lawsuit to the court outside his seat. Today, especially during the pandemic period, when the vast majority of transactions take place on a procurement basis, there is no procedural facilitation, and the debt usually has to be brought before the debtor's court. In this way, the legislator pays instead of honest entrepreneurs of unreliable counterparties. The importance of a smooth and rapid economic procedure in the investigation of payment for the goods and services sold should be stressed. The activities of the courts in this area and the introduction of appropriate mechanisms should be facilitated, as the Minister said earlier, and not hindered the recovery of the entrepreneur's claims. Good process solutions have an impact on the functioning of the economy as a whole, cash flow and the elimination of payment congestion. The solution thus adopted in Article. 34 Code of Civil Procedure [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is not the best and requires a change which will make the pending claims for payment, and not the unreliable counterparties and debtors, have an easier situation. Then I ask, Minister: Are there any plans to change this article in order to make it easier for entrepreneurs to return, to obtain payment for the goods sold? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u110	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Stefan Krajewski in the Chamber. Then I ask you to take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, the Law and Justice. But no, it's not one at a time. Excuse me, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club, and then the Member. I apologise to Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are currently very rarely discussing government aid addressed to the so-called. Third sector. This sector performs many general government tasks. Today, as part of the pandemic support, associations can count on up to 10% of their 2019 revenue. It is a means of very often covering, unfortunately, only the monthly maintenance costs of the premises in which these NGOs are located. Do you, as Minister and Prime Minister, provide for the mobilisation of additional aid for the third sector, whose current activity is difficult or impossible due to the declared pandemic state? The NGOs are asking for help. Please respond in writing and respond to this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Now, in the absence of Mr Krajewski, I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u113	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! The effects of the pandemic had to be dealt with by the whole world. During the outbreak of Coronavirus this threat had to be faced also by Polish families, when for epidemic reasons there were closed nursery, kindergarten and school, and parents had to take care of their children. Dear Minister, How did the Ministry take action to systematically support families in this undoubtedly objective problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u114	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Almost completely themselves were left to the entrepreneurs of the transport industry, building the position of Poland throughout Europe. When protectionist measures were intensified during the pandemic by other countries, the PiS government was silent, throwing Polish companies to eat. And yet those companies that earn abroad, and spend in Poland, should be protected, should be dedicated to support for them. It wasn't there. On the other hand, it is about small and medium-sized Polish transport companies, which bring children to school or Poles to work every day. There was no school, no closed schools, no remote work, no traffic on those lines. What did the PiS government do? He's raised the stakes on deficit transports. There was no movement - he raised the rate on deficit transports. What did he pay for when there were no passengers? It's like the government's pouring fuel into a vehicle that doesn't have an engine. It just couldn't have worked. So-called. Nor did the shield protect residents of border regions who do their work abroad. I am talking here about the inhabitants of Silesia Cieszyński, the district of Bielsko, but also other regions. These families were separated, deprived of normal work. The staff paid the costs of the research. They were completely ignored by the PiS government as far as this shield is concerned. Moreover, they still have to carry out these tests today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I ask today on behalf of these tens of thousands of people: Why is this propaganda about this help so scandalously missing out on the truth? Why did the Government of Law and Justice leave the inhabitants of Silesia Cieszyński, the district of Bielsko and other border regions to themselves in an absolutely scandalous manner? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Businesses and local workers were in a worse position than entrepreneurs and employees who rented their premises in large shopping malls. The tenants of the large shopping malls were legally exempt from the rent, but this did not happen to the tenants of the local estates. Self-governments themselves are in a very difficult situation as a result of COVID and lockdown, so I have one fundamental, systemic question: whether in the next shield or in the next solutions we will finally get essential help for local governments, so that local governments can slow down Or so that tenants - and this is just one aspect of the locality problem, that concerns economic operators, concerns social organisations - can they be legally exempt from paying rent? And two more questions on specific issues, but facilitating the examination of applications, to the Minister. Can the forms of application be corrected so that the trader can withdraw the wrong application? At the moment, businesses are making several applications and this extends the processing time for these applications. Also on the website www.praca. gov.pl is allowed to submit applications without the necessary (Bingle) ingredients, which prevents payment of the benefit. Can this system be corrected to force the necessary fields to be filled? This will also speed up the processing of applications. In the Poznań district, only 1/4 of the applications submitted are considered, among others. as a result of these extensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u118	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u119	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, funding for the remuneration of employees from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is one of the forms of aid within the shield. But we know, ladies and gentlemen, that this support for many of these companies is over. It ended at the end of June. An example from Western Pomerania, companies that are very closely linked to the tourism industry. Unfortunately, there is no economic recovery there. I will give you a concrete example of a company that performs laundry services for hotel networks, employs 500 women, mainly from rural areas - improvement of the situation, there is no decisive improvement of the situation. So far solutions have helped and these people are still employees of this company, but if there is no extension in the case of such companies, this aid will not be effective because these companies will start firing these ladies in the autumn. Minister, concrete question: Does the government plan to extend such support for such companies and such industries until there are strong symptoms of improvement in these industries and in these companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u120	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Ursula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u121	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the difficult situation in which the world was in, the Polish government began to fight the epidemic, but in parallel, quickly, implemented the fight against the economic consequences. Over 118 billion have been earmarked for this fight. It would be good, and here my request can compare the programs that were introduced, which the Polish Government has now introduced, with the programmes that were introduced during the crisis in 2009. It's probably a chasm. I think that already as a result of these programs, which the Polish Government introduced in the current situation, the result of these programs are the very positive information that we have from the Central Statistical Office. We know that in June this year. Average employment in the business sector increased slightly by 0,2% economic performance in the business sector is also good. So thank you very much for these implemented programs. From this point of view, I will also ask about the tourism industry. Minister, this is the industry that has really suffered, hence the request to indicate additional resources and additional flow of aid just for the tourism, event industry. What else is the government planning for this sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! So far we have talked rather about microeconomic issues, but let's look at our crisis from a macro point of view. The real salaries of citizens have been falling for 2 months, I am talking about the April ratio - today. In return, prices of first-needed products are rising faster than before. They grow even faster than last year. For example, this fruit is almost 30%, meats over 10, bread 10, milk 8, the use of apartment 7, services including medical, financial, caring services, that is also close to 10%. This shows that, in fact, for every subsequent salary, citizens will be able to acquire less. So basically, we're gonna get poorer every month. What is the reason why Poland is an inflation record player in Europe? Because most European countries today have deflation due to the crisis or inflation close to zero. E.g. loosening fiscal policy, so large, by the National Bank of Poland, economists indicate this element. At the same time, the Monetary Policy Council has lowered its interest rates and is close to zero. What's causing this? Multi-annual savings of Poles, pensioners, all hardworking and middle class, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which has any savings on the accounts, also melts overnight. When you look at the last months on a macro scale, unfortunately, Minister, you can see that we are poorer, and at an alarming rate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u124	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u125	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have three short questions. The first concerns your data and analyses of the impact of the COVID-19 epidemic on investors operating within the Polish Investment Zone and special economic zones, I am talking about the labour market aspect. Second thing: What does your statistics look like to monitor the greatest problems of employees... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I would very much like to ask you to allow your colleague to speak. Excuse us. Of course, Mr. Marshal, we apologize. ...and at the same time the greatest sins of employers regarding sending on compulsory leave, including unpaid leave, annexing contracts that are a condition for staying at work, doing homework, paying part-time salary? I am interested in your monitoring of these cases and statistics during the epidemic. The last case concerning cases that occurred, under-Parking for contractors. This was the case, among others. in the Małopolskie Voivodship. I have a question: How has this been explained? Were there more cases like this, how many were there? Did they appear in the country and have you corrected this error supposedly an automatic system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns cross-border workers, people who, despite the assurances of the Polish government, are discriminated against on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! Poles living close to the border, close to the Czech Republic, trusted many years ago, among others. the work offices that developed cross-border networks, and took up work massly, among others. in Karvin, Ostrava, Thrzyńc or Czech Cieszyn. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the pandemic, a cross-border worker from Poland was required to present a test for the coritotus every 30 days. You have taken diplomatic action and as a result of these actions employees must test every 14 days so that I congratulate you on your effectiveness. Every 14 days they have to spend several hundred zlotys, a month 1,000. Or close to 1,000. zł. I ask, Minister: Why are they treated worse than workers from Poland who do not have to pay for tests? Why don't you cover it with the National Health Fund? Especially since the situation of Polish families from Silesia Cieszyński is simply catastrophic today. Please, Minister, for support and attention, so that our families are not in a worse position than the Czech families working in the same factories. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the instruments to support entrepreneurs and service providers based on civil law contracts during the COVID-19 epidemic period is the provision of parking services. As a general rule, the parking benefit is payable in the amount of PLN 2080, exempt from taxes and not covered. This benefit shall be granted to persons engaged in an economic activity if they have been affected by downtime in their activities following COVID-19 and by a decrease in income, as well as to persons carrying out civil law contracts. Please provide information on the amount of parking benefits that has been paid so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u130	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your actions regarding support for workers and employers due to the pandemic of Coronavirus can be called in one sentence: symbolic aid behind a bureaucratic barrier. Oh, Jesus. Under the coat so-called. The anti-crisis shield you smuggled directly through the regulations that hit the workers. Already shield 1.0 gave employers tools to reduce wages and even facilitated mass layoffs of employees, but it was just a prelude. After it came another, even worse legal bubble patching holes in the previous shields. The other was even challenged to the Constitutional Court by one of the trade unions. The fourth edition of the shield contained a number of provisions, which in fact, in the case of many regulations of the Labour Code protecting the rights of the employee introduced chaos, suspending the application of certain rights. I am no longer talking about the fact that the legislative process of these laws was very fast and did not take into account many rational voices about the need to improve certain regulations. The funds from the crisis shield went to the labour offices, and these, unable to cope with the number of applications, had to work often on Saturdays. It's July, and the anti-crisis shield is over. Some entrepreneurs can only count on themselves. Those are the facts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your holes in the shields have shown what it should not look like to help entrepreneurs during the pandemic. You just didn't do it again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u132	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In this current question addressed to the government, we pay a lot of attention to the issues of employees, companies, the functioning of various elements of support. However, there is one part of the economy, which is also very important from the point of view of the Polish economy. I'm talking about agriculture, which gives almost 30 billion export revenues. Unfortunately, this department has been omitted in this system. I am a Member from southern Wielkopolska and meet with such situations: a large farm with large animal production, a family with COVID, are locked in quarantine. Who's going to help them? Self-government? We say we don't have the resources to provide a substitute job. These people can't even go out in the yard of their own farm to feed the animals twice a day, milk the cows, and these are obligations that take a few hours, at least twice a day after two or three hours each. I'm not talking about those farms where there's field production. Today I had a conversation about a farm where there are several dozen hectares of cereals for harvesting. The harvest has begun, and actually no one is able - to say so - to move, and the sanitary authorities have made a rigorous decision that these people cannot move because they are quarantined. I think we need some kind of mechanism that would allow, for example. Local governments... I also asked the local authorities if they had an opportunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] helping families like this to support them with workers or services from outside. They tell me, but what are we supposed to pay for it? It seems to me, therefore, that this problem should be addressed here, as this is also increasingly true for those who are engaged in agricultural activities, the agricultural holding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u134	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u135	Dear Marshal, High Seym! There is no way to listen to those lies that fall from the parliamentary speaker of Members of the opposition, especially the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, stop lying about mass layoffs because the data is unambiguous. Luckily, Law and Justice ruled in Poland in an epidemic situation, because the Platform with PSL showed that they could not take care of entrepreneurs when there was no such threat. The Government of Law and Justice quickly responded to the threat posed by the epidemic to the economy. Another release of the anti-crisis shield, the financial shield, has been introduced. President Andrzej Duda also showed his initiative by introducing a support instrument, proposing a solidarity support instrument to counter the negative effects of COVID. It is a huge support for those who have lost their only source of income due to the epidemic. This is a monthly benefit of PLN 1400 for persons who were employed under a contract of employment and with whom the contract was either terminated after 15 March or terminated over the period of time for which it was concluded. This benefit is granted for a period of up to 3 months, from June to August this year. I have a question for the Minister, how many people have so far requested this support, the use of this instrument. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u136	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! COVID dramatically exposed the lack of a decision, which results in the transformation in Eastern Wielkopolska being accelerated due to the fact that the exemptions in the brown coal sector are large and could be even greater. At the time of the outbreak, 200 people were fired, miners from the Turkish district, as well as fired in the horse county, fired in Fugo. There's a lot of that. Therefore, we need to think about regions such as the Wielkopolska Eastern region and turn to these regions in the COVID specialty. For years the trade unions have been demanding with us from the government a compensation programme like the Silesian programme. You haven't implemented this compensation program so far, then do it in the COVID special. Trade unions are asking for an immediate social security scheme for redundant workers from the Konin-Turkish region, the application of mining leave cover schemes, bridge pensions, benefits, one-off checks, granting loans on preferential terms for the purpose of undertaking business activity (Dawn), the introduction of preferential employment rules released in the workers' sector by the application of e.g. tax reductions. Minister! One more thing. The miners working on brown coal, retiring, must claim that they were miners in court. We have been fighting with the Ombudsman for this case for a long time. It can't be that the miner has to claim in court that he's a miner and that he can therefore get a mining pension. Please take a look at this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u138	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Gontar, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u139	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Poland has been at the forefront of the European Union in recent years as regards the unemployment rate. According to Eurostat data in May 2020. Poland had the lowest unemployment rate in the Czech Republic - at 3%. This can be compared to the European Union, where unemployment was 6.7% , and the euro area - up to 7.4%. True, in June this year. the number of unemployed registered has increased, but the scale of unemployment, the scale of growth was much lower than in the previous months. Let me just remind you that in April this year. number of unemployed registered compared to March increased by 6.2% , in May compared to April it was already 4,8% , and in June - just 1.5%. The unemployment rate recorded in Poland at the end of June was 6.1% , which means that the increase in unemployment was only 0.1 percentage point. Minister! What actions have been taken within the framework of the crisis shield and what impact has it had on our country, the working system in Poland? And I'm asking because the numbers in their soullessness at this point indicate very good results. However, it must be remembered that people are always behind these numbers and that every protected workplace is a huge success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u140	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to point out to you that in all these shields: 1, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, which you have produced, you lack many solutions and you exclude specific industries. And so on. gastronomy representatives, restaurants employing very often young people under contract-order cannot benefit from any aid solutions. What does the Minister have to offer for them? The second issue, ladies and gentlemen, is local government, often one of the largest employees in municipalities and powiats. Those local governments, whose shoulders often had to save interests in a given city, the interests of smaller companies and firemen, to those local authorities that run hospitals, you shift the possibilities or the need to run these hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen! In the election campaign, the Prime Minister and his fellow Members rode around Poland and handed out checks. To Radom, Mr Andrzej Costowniak brought a check for PLN 22 million. And I, ladies and gentlemen, am showing a real bill. And it's just a bill for the last two years. 111 million PLN, ladies and gentlemen - so much should come to our city, and I do not include COVID here. The costs associated with COVID are not included in this, ladies and gentlemen, and the money that is imported on a check is not enough to cover those costs of COVID. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these are the real problems you have to deal with. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u142	Thank you very much for speaking. Now... (Groans in the hall) Why didn't you bring the money before? Eight years. We didn't rob local governments. Talk to Fame N, he'll tell you how. Can discussions be calmed down? I'm sorry, but this is the kind of discussion we're moving out of the Seym. Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u143	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Listening to the speech... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr... Listening to the statements of the Members of the opposition, I have one impression: that any action by the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is taken to really improve the lives of Poles, you define them as symbolic help. Everything's being denied. I come to the head of what it takes to be a man, who needs to be a politician, so that I do not see the real help that is directed to Poles, local governments, all the people who live in our common homeland. Protecting jobs today is the most important challenge we face. The crisis shield was launched to support companies, protect them from the effects of the pandemic, so as to protect workers from losing their jobs. The help was really needed by everyone, even the smallest ones. Payment for salaries was the most popular form of aid, which was prepared by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. No less popular are also deadly loans up to 5 000. PLN to cover current operating costs. Question: "Did the micro-entrepreneurs' support put in place turn out to be effective, Minister?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] What help and support can micro-entrepreneurs expect? And have the loans with which big cities had problems been successfully realised? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u144	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Michael Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u145	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been talking in this House since Tuesday about how you installed the legal lightning rod on Minister Sasin as part of the anti-covid shield. The whole country heard about the fact that the public procurement law was shut down under the epidemic. And thanks to the work of our Members, Poland also learns the results of these decisions: masks, ventilators, ski courses, etc. What else is behind your shields? The impunity of your fellow officials, as long as they can cover themselves with anti-covid action. Your managers can avoid punishment for acting to the detriment of the company as long as they fight the effects of COVID. Of course, the definitions of the effects are lacking. Other psychic examples of changes smuggled behind an anticovid shield. You have granted yourself unlimited access to the location data of the quarantined people's mobile phones, all the others as well. You have tightened the criminal code against the position of the Constitutional Court of 2019 and against the position of President Andrzej Duda. You have equipped the U.S. with a tool for mass control of the contract for the work, supposedly under the pretense of liquefying the processes for the parking payment. Only no one talks about the fact that these regulations enter into force only in January 2021. 200 changes in various legal acts - these are your anticovid shields. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sometimes these changes and acts are as far apart as the Penal Code is from the Commercial Companies Code. Question: "Why did you turn the right and noble idea of helping Poles during the epidemic into a legislative dump?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u146	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to reply here to Mr Frysztak, who has escaped and remind him that in 2015 the state budget was PLN 293 billion. Today, there are 119 billion PLN in the accounts of entrepreneurs, and after all, the state budget in 2015 was for 12 months to maintain the army, education, health care, all institutions. At that time, the state's 12-month maintenance was estimated at PLN 290 billion. Today 119 billion PLN is in the accounts of entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen. And today, trying to discredit these actions, saying that the government of law and justice doesn't help entrepreneurs much, it's just a shame. Shame and shame. [[Applause]] As to the question, I would like to point out that job protection is a priority issue. That is why in this area the government focused its action in the first quarter of the operation of the crisis shield. The formally prepared support is received by entrepreneurs, but in fact it is used by employees (the bell) by them. This can be done by granting companies funding for salaries from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. It goes to companies whose turnover has decreased following the outbreak of Coronavirus. It is also a loan for micro-entrepreneurs and funding for the remuneration of entrepreneurs from the Labour Fund. They are received by micro-entrepreneurs, self-employed and NGOs. And question: What total support for the financing of employees' salaries went to Polish entrepreneurs and how many employees included this support? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I get to the point, there is a short answer for the Member. The state budget with the shield has absolutely nothing to do with it - the entire shield is financed by debt. The entire shield is financed by debt. Remember that. Right! There's no gold in the state budget. [[Applause]] And now I'm getting to the point. I must say that the Minister's speech is in clear contradiction, even with the newly published report of the National Bank of Poland. It revealed the catastrophic situation of private investment. Companies aren't going to invest for the next two and a half years. The central bank also expects us to face high unemployment, which will remain with us by the end of 2022. There are a lot of things we can talk about. You will not deny the fact: the number of workers has fallen, unemployment has increased by 20% - from 5 percentage points to 6.1 percentage points, the scale of wages in the economic sector has decreased. It's all just facts. On the other hand, we will be evaluating the shield in a year's time, in two years' time when everything will actually be known. And we're also going to be making an assessment of the cause of this lockdown in the economy - if it wasn't sometimes Only the decision of Prime Minister Morawiecki to close many sectors of the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof July, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The anti-crisis shield works, and no matter what the representatives of the total opposition say here today, trying to curse reality, this reality is quite different from that created by you. Just look at the situation of entrepreneurs, those who tried to find themselves in this reality during the fight against the pandemic and actually found themselves through government support. This could also be seen by the Minister who visited my district, Świętokrzyskie, Starachowice, where she met with one of the entrepreneurs who spoke about the situation he had to face. It was a family-owned, good company that worked for years for its market position. And the Minister has received great gratitude just for helping with the anti-crisis shield. At the time when the Minister was in my district, state aid under the crisis shield for entrepreneurs amounted to PLN 100 billion. Today, after 19 days or so, the Minister said that the allocated amount was PLN 119 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, one billion PLN a day for entrepreneurs to help fight this pandemic is not enough? In my opinion, these are not small measures. They will certainly contribute to economic development. I have this question: Has the government thought of all those (the bell) who have been or will be affected by the pandemic? What about these people, what about those people who lost their jobs as part of this pandemic? What about those who might still lose their jobs? Does the government have an idea for this? Is there a special project for this? There's one thing I want to remind you of. Today, in summing up this pandemic, the Polish state is really coming out of this situation as a leading country in the European Union: the smallest loss of national income and the second place in terms of unemployment rates, the lowest rate in European countries. And the glory of the Polish government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u152	Thank you very much. I ask you not to extend your speech if we want everyone to speak. We're getting close to the end, and the list shows that the people who made it at the end may simply not have a chance. So I would ask you to ask the question, to take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! That is why we are here in the Sejm to protect Poland, Poles, workplaces from negative consequences, from the liquidation of workplaces and from the liquidation of jobs. Minister! We all hear that our primary action is to secure the jobs of Poles. We all talk and argue whether this shield works or doesn't work, and actually no one is referring to specifics. A few days ago, one of the companies in Mikołów announced that they were firing half the workers. Of the 1,200 employees, 500 will be fired. I'm asking you today what these people are going to do, what resources they're going to use, those 500 people released in a pandemic, under the assumption of one or the other crisis shield. What are you gonna offer them? The coal mining industry suffers concrete losses, there are downtimes, the epidemic has quite strongly marked it. Coal companies apply for aid in this respect. I wanted to ask you, how much money are they gonna go in? How many applications have been received from mining companies, coal companies seeking aid [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the shields? I also wanted to ask: What percentage of these COVID funds are used by companies of the State Treasury? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u154	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, efforts focused mainly on protecting the health and life of Poles, but also on saving the Polish economy. Today we can say that solutions supporting entrepreneurs work. The government's crisis shield is a package of effective and broad support for entrepreneurs, self-employed and Polish workers. This is real aid, which for many companies means today to be or not to be, which allows to keep employment despite temporary difficulties. Now the question is: Has government aid, have the instruments been extended and the actions adapted to the current situation and needs? Have we successfully supported entrepreneurs, protected jobs and Polish families? What about the weakest - disabled people? Was there something prepared for them too? Another appeal to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you have great ideas, great suggestions. Make it happen in Brussels. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u156	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! And you, Members of the United Right. There wouldn't be this idle discussion today if it wasn't for the middle of March of this year, the incidence of 300, 400 a day, just like today. And then what does your leader, one, the other, Mr. Morawiecki, Mr. Szumowski do? It shuts the country down, shuts down the electricity, drives people home and destroys the entire economy of this country, which for 40 years has been trying to make money after the communist occupation. I hope that one day these two gentlemen will stand before the Court of State for what they did to these people, our citizens. [[Applause]] The world's shut down. I hope you'll face your neighbors for what you've done to them. What do you mean, "you"? 'Cause one day they're gonna come to you, they're gonna do 3, 5 or 10 years of what you've done. Some kind of melissa, Mr.... We have heard a lot today, what wonderful shields this government is covering its eye in the head, the salt of this land, or entrepreneurs. The other shields cover it from the left, it's from the right. He's protecting his employees from being fired... That's not true. ...before the income drop, before everything. However, you have effectively limited the access of small and medium-sized companies to support funds. How? Simple. Some genius on your side has come up with the idea that someone who has a debt of 26,10 zlotys cannot seek help. 26,10 PLN - that's how you valued your business neighbors. And then what happened? That's when you steered those measures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to companies of the Treasury. Time. My question is: How much aid money, all of which, the Minister, has been directed to companies of the Treasury or companies in which the Treasury is involved, and how much to entrepreneurs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u158	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Przemysław Drabek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u159	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! The anti-crisis shield introduced the possibility to obtain funding for the remuneration of employees and to pay for the employer's social security contributions to employees. This funding is eligible, among others. entrepreneurs, NGOs, public benefit organisations, cultural institutions. The employer may receive up to 40% of the money an average monthly salary. This was true for both employment and civil law workers. The support was provided by entities which, due to the COVID pandemic, had a decline in economic turnover or operating income and had to include workers in economic stagnation or reduced working time due to reduced business opportunities. Therefore, Minister, I have this question: What measures have been involved in this form of aid, how many operators have benefited from it and how many jobs have been saved? At the moment, this discussion was filled with negative emotions from the opposition. But let's look at what's crucial and what's most important. Firstly, the government of the Republic of Poland saved the lives of Poles, and it was the key, the basic action, and then rescued and rescued jobs and entrepreneurs. These are millions of jobs saved. Look at this and look at those people who, thanks to these actions, can work and function peacefully today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] 3 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u160	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask, because you say a lot that all the help, all the shields are directed to support jobs, and as for that, we all agree that this is the way it should be, but whether it is. I would like to ask: What was your direction when you set the criteria for non-refundable or deadly loans from the financial shield? As far as micro-enterprises are concerned, up to nine employees, it has been established, regardless of the fall in turnover due, a lump sum for a specific job, while for small and medium-sized enterprises with between 10 and 250 employees you have left the flat-rate criterion for the workplace, replacing them with the upper limit from the turnover. Thus, we have such a situation that, for example, a 50-person company in the service, tourism or restaurant industry, because its turnover in relation to expenditure is much smaller than costs, receives much less aid than an analogue commercial company, e.g. trading furniture, whose decline in turnover is small, but rather not even a fall in turnover, but a shift to a later period. Here's an example. Company in the hotel industry, 75% the decline in turnover, employs 50 employees. It receives help to maintain jobs - a maximum of 750 000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the same trading company, whose turnover fell by only 25% and even only moved - 3.5 million. What is the reason why such criteria have been established? I'm asking for an answer, if not orally, in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u162	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Anna Gembicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u163	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! One of the instruments to support micro-entrepreneurs is a frozen loan of up to 5 000. zł. The circle of entities entitled to receive it has been extended at a certain stage, as has been the case with the automatic redemption procedure, provided that business continues for a period of 3 months from the date of financial support. Therefore, my question is: How important was this instrument of support? How many micro-entrepreneurs and how many NGOs have benefited from this mechanism? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u164	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You've been predicting the first budget in history without a deficit. He was supposed to be balanced. Meanwhile, what do we got? Mom's COVID. We have PLN 100 billion deficit this year. This means that per capita this deficit will amount to PLN 2630. You don't talk about finance, because as we know... Why are you hiding information about the economy and its real state? Why did you promise a 14th, 15th, 16th, even 24th pension during the presidential election? Today it turns out that it was just a political scam. Let's face it: the economy, as the latest figures show, will shrink by 4.5%. so increasing this deficit and, at the same time, your actions, which relax the stabilizing expenditure rule, are irresponsible. If the stabilizing expenditure rule, which is designed to ensure that the state does not over-indebte, is changed and eliminated by you, then you are only thinking about your temporary and ad hoc political goals, because these debts will pay back future generations. We're thinking about Poles. If you think about Poles, as you say... Don't discuss it. ...then think of those who are young today and will be paying off those debts you will owe today. Responsible policy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The responsible approach to the future is to think about public finances in the long term, not about what is here and now, and about spending as much as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]] You've been thinking about that perspective. It's best to send Poles for unemployment. You told me to take the loans.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u167	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The introduction of an anti-crisis shield stopped a wave of redundancies that could have occurred through the pandemic of Coronavirus. The shield is not a single instrument, but a whole package of solutions. In addition to the most visible and most widely used funding for employee salaries, the instrument introduced by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which was important at this difficult time, the way to relieve companies was to exempt them from social security contributions. Bridge, parking services for self-employed and service providers under civil law contracts were also particularly praised, and thus addressed to groups that were most likely to experience the crisis without any protective umbrella. The government's priority during the pandemic period was to protect jobs. The key solution was to create such instruments so that those seeking help do not have to fire workers. Minister! Please provide information on the exemption from social security contributions in terms of quantity and value regarding the aid granted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u168	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, we'll reduce speaking time to one minute to give everyone who's saved a chance. There's no objection? There isn't. In that case, I ask the floor of Mrs Eve Szymanska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The anti-crisis shield introduced the possibility to obtain funding for the remuneration of employees and to pay for the employer's social security contributions. The funding shall be granted, inter alia, entrepreneurs, NGOs, public benefit organisations, cultural institutions. Employers could receive funding for remuneration for a period of 3 months. Most often, funding for one employee's salary amounted to around 2.5 thousand. £ per month. This was true for both employment and civil law workers. The support was provided by entities which, due to the pandemic, experienced a decrease in revenues from their activities, a decrease in economic turnover and suffered restrictions on their ability to operate. My questions in this connection are: What measures have been involved in this form of aid? How many entities have used it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many jobs did this save? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak will direct his words to us remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, [[Disruption of reception]] ...the pandemia of Coronavirus caused a drop in turnover... [[Disruption of reception]] ...especially... [[Disruption of reception]] ...and commercial, and a large number of employers were intending to significantly reduce employment and even close businesses. It was only the introduction of individual stages of the anti-crisis shield that hindered these intentions and reduced the reduction of employment. I think that a significant impact on such a response could have been the funding for wages during the economic downtime of workers or to the reduced working time caused by the crisis. [[Disruption of reception]] ...but there are also opinions that many entrepreneurs are unable to sustain and overcome the challenges brought by the crisis. I would therefore like to ask if, in your opinion, the mechanisms introduced under the anti-crisis shield are sufficient and will allow... [[Disruption of reception]] ...employment within the limits of... (Distortion of receipt) ...than the labour market. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u172	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Kazimierz Moskal, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The pandemic has caused all governments around the world to take certain measures primarily to protect health and life, but in the second place it was very important to protect jobs. Here I can thank the government, the parliament that has taken the relevant laws very much, for the fact that these jobs have actually been effectively protected. Over 5 million jobs, over PLN 116 billion spent on job protection so far. I would ask the Minister for an answer, if he can present it here, how territorially and geographically it looks, in which voivodships most companies benefited from this assistance, and what was the percentage of those companies that benefited by comparing to all companies. In contrast, unemployment has increased slightly, about 100,000. new unemployed. And the question is: Where are the regions (the Bell) where the highest unemployment is? Thank you again to the government, thank you to Parliament for... That's it. Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u174	Please take the floor of Mr. Sylvester Tulayev. There isn't. Mr Jan Mosiński. There isn't. Mrs Anna Krupka. There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 119 billion PLN - so many entrepreneurs have already benefited from the crisis shield, so much has been used up. And 5 million jobs - that's how much we saved. This is the most important information that comes from this debate. I wanted to ask you about the economic sector that was the most affected during the Coronavirus epidemic, and which was the fastest in 2019, i.e. tourism. Tourism in 2019 was 6% GDP, in 2018 it is estimated that more than PLN 60 billion Polish and foreign tourists left in Poland. So my question is: How the crisis shield supports entrepreneurs, it supports [[♪ The bell ♪]] all stakeholders in the tourism industry and within what activities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. There isn't. Please take the floor of Mr John Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times in public space, and also in this room, we have heard that the Senate is holding the bill. The word "restraint" refers to the statutory deadline of 30 days each time. In the meantime, this is the situation. On 14 May this year. The Senate of the Republic of Poland has submitted a bill to supplement the support of the health care system due to the spread of Coronavirus. The project provided, among others, for the project. the creation of a special fund to prevent the spread of this Coronavirus, provided incentives for work, provided for an issue related to financial support elements for health professionals. I wanted to ask the absent Marshal: Why has this project been in the Seym freezer since 14 May? I also wanted to ask the Minister (Ring) about the position of the Ministry on this project. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please provide information to the Ministry in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u178	Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u179	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You are proud of the billions transferred under COVID aid, and within EU funds billions are in bank accounts in Brussels, instead of in Polish farmers' and entrepreneurs' accounts. The next installment, shield 4.0, is intended to enable customers to apply for a parking fee on their own. However, the construction of parking arrangements allows the application only to be submitted in a month's time. Since the rules will enter into force on 24 July, the proposal can be submitted at the earliest for June. Theoretically for contractors this problem is less important than for entrepreneurs, because it is not required to decrease turnover, but only to fit in the income limit, currently it is 15 994, 41 PLN. Such a specialty may, however, deprive some of the parking bells for the second and third time. Will the government correct its mistake and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u180	Thank you very much. The question is now... Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must say that it is worried that the representatives of the majority of the Seym say: action, assistance in past tense returns. Fighting the effects of the epidemic on the economy, all the time ahead of us. It is best seen in two sectors and I would like to ask, Minister, about them, completely deprived of any political motivation here. These are industries that, despite their help, still can't get back on their feet. The first industry is the gastronomic industry, the restaurant industry, which, in the context of these outbreaks of Coronavirus exploding at weddings, still has great problems. The other is the transport industry. And I wanted on behalf of those who work in these industries, to save these jobs, to ask if there was any long-term help just dedicated to these two industries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u183	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Public expenditure should be made in a targeted and cost-effective manner, in such a way that tasks can be carried out in a timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing's for sure. In Shield 2.0, which entered into force on 1 April, you have actually secured impunity, namely the release of responsibility for excesses, damage to trade or the violation of the discipline of public finances. But I hope, and I am very happy to hear from President Marian Banasi that all the COVID purchases that have taken place and which have not been settled so far... Let me remind you: 1241 ventilators over 1 000. has not been delivered, out of EUR 35 million the prepayment has not returned nearly PLN 70 million so far. These things need to be cleared up. And a specific question to the Minister: When will you propose the liquidation of (the bell) of the exemption from liability relating to COVID purchases? If Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Szumowski claims that the pandemic is behind us, why do you maintain the impunity of the officials? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u184	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u185	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I understand that the opposition has its theory of assessing the effects of pandemics in terms of the labour market, the situation of workers and employers. Well, we can't change your point of view if you say the Earth is flat and based on two elephants. That's not true, but of course you have your theory, so spread it out. On the other hand, nothing enjoys politics as much as the voice of the social side. And here I would like to quote, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, a quote from the speech of Vice-President of the National Commission on Solidarity, Tadeusz Majchrowicz: For the first time, we are dealing with this pandemic situation and a situation where the government is very responsible in proposing solutions for businesses, businesses and workers. Responsiblely proposing solutions. Minister, I have a question. Please inform us how many jobs we have saved and what measures were involved to save the labour market, the situation of employers and employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u186	Thank you very much. On this list of Members who signed up for the vote, we were exhausted. And now I ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Anita Czerwinska. Yes? Are you the Minister right away? Right away, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to thank you very much for this comprehensive information, but first of all, I wanted to thank the government for its immediate and appropriate action. We can say that if we want to compare this with other countries, with other countries, the comparison will be very beneficial for Poland. I'm sure the opposition will confirm that. The state is so worldly, [[Applause]] they have a lot of foreign contacts, so I'm sure you know that Poland was a strong leader when it comes to responding to the pandemic. And we thank the government very much for that. I wanted to be very brief in the end, because it's a shame to waste my time. Of course, the opposition has the right to criticize, political discourse is the essence of democracy. We are open, ready for you to present this criticism. But I would ask for one thing. In such a situation, completely exceptional, when a pandemic occurs - this is an unexpected event, no one expected it - but a mature opposition would expect it to think in a pro-state way. I don't ask you to be statemen because it's unreal. You can't, because you don't think like that... You're pro-family for divorce. ...and you don't just feel it. To be a stateman, you have to start from the heart, you have to have Poland in your heart, [[Applause]] And you have a very serious problem with that, as we know. That's why it's hard to expect from you. But don't offend your intelligence. If Members come out of your benches, out of your ranks, and make lectures out of this speaker about the state's finances, then I ask: You? You're gonna teach us how to manage the state's finances? You've ruined the state's finances. You left the ashes behind. Come on, you're full of shit. The Poles thanked you in a very clear way and no longer expect you to run the country because you cannot do it. Moravian was... So please. If that's the kind of lecture you want to teach, then do it in your midst. And finally, maybe it's time for you to do some reeducation, start learning how to manage the country... Formal conclusion. ...because maybe it'll happen again in the future. But in all this tragedy of pandemic happily, you are not in charge of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u188	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of Minister Marlena Maląg, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. If you're a minister, you will, and now you're not. There isn't. You're not funny. You could be elegant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted about all the questions that have been raised here today, both from the United Right, Law and Justice, and from the opposition. On the other hand, because of what the total opposition is saying today, we could say that it is worth to stand in the truth and accept what your leaders, what Mr Budka, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish said about this shield. This shield is primarily about saving jobs. [[Applause]] And the test of whether this shield worked is concrete information coming from both Europe, which you love so much, and from the Central Statistical Office. The Senate has introduced laws, not the government. Ladies and gentlemen! We have saved, and this is what we speak with full conviction and this is what is behind the data, concrete jobs, more than 5 million jobs. More than 119 billion PLN, the size that has already fallen here several times today. It is because the State budget for 2020 was prepared as a sustainable budget that these actions were aware, responsible. These other shields that were introduced - the country with irony you're talking about them that something was being thrown in there. No, it was thought-out to put in place specific mechanisms, including. support for NGOs and the expansion of this support in particular. We will, of course, prepare detailed written replies for you, but today, first of all, let us stand in the truth and tell you how we have taken care of Poles. During the last time I also met with entrepreneurs who really assessed this aid, which the Polish state, acting not theoretically, but practically, prepared for Poles, for saving jobs, for entrepreneurs. And entrepreneurs with their companies abroad are clearly saying that the support that went, prepared by the Polish government, by the Polish parliament, thanks to the United Right was quick and effective and helped save these companies. That's what unemployment is about. Ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat: in March, when we met here, for the first time speaking of the anti-crisis shield, we heard from the opposition that 500,000. people have already lost their jobs. So many people haven't lost their jobs to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have 1027,000. unemployed persons. And what did unemployment look like in 2015, when you ruled? May 2015 - over 170,000. unemployed persons. [[Applause]] The economic situation is completely under control. When were you worried about the Poles? How did you secure those Poles who didn't have jobs at the time? At the time, you weren't worried about raising unemployment benefits. Thanks to the actions of the joint president, the government, we have prepared a solidarity supplement, 3 months of support for these people and an increase in unemployment benefits since September. These are concrete actions, which are primarily due to concern for jobs, about Polish companies. And this is what the Polish economy looks like today. 6.1 unemployment rate. You're not gonna mess this up, you're not gonna tell me it's different. It's 6, 1. In my view, this is less than it was in 2015. Implementation of support mechanisms, fast-acting mechanisms and work all the time: on the one hand, concern for the health and life of Poles, and on the other hand, striving to protect jobs, so that above all support goes to companies so that companies can maintain liquidity and function. What about the answers? It's not RMF. This was, above all, an effective activity that allowed us to emerge from the crisis today. Plus, the next steps that the government will take, both in terms of investment, these big investments... And the answers to the questions? ...which you criticize because you claim that it is not worth investing in Poland, because it is possible elsewhere, why in Poland... Answer the questions. You might want to start answering questions. ...as well as local government investments - it is about measures that have been secured for local government investments, for road investments. You are unable to compare the expenses that are being implemented... Hello, questions. ...by the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right, with what you have done for eight years. The 2008 financial crisis... Hello, hello! ...why didn't we talk about support back then? Because there was nothing to talk about because the government didn't offer a solution. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: There were 2 million unemployed at the time. Thank you very much. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: You don't agree to social programs, you've been very critical. It's full. These social programs have also helped at this difficult time. Thank you very much. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's so cool.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u190	After all, the Minister said that she would answer questions in writing. Can you come in or can't you? We proceed with the consideration of items 17, 18 and 19 of the agenda: I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 and on the draft resolution on discharge. Five minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I present a report on the implementation of the budget. The Public Finance Commission considered the report on the implementation of the State budget in 2019 at meetings held from 24 June to 14 July. In the course of the work on the budget implementation reports, the Finance Committee considered both the budgetary parts of the committee's remit and those which were the subject of the work of the other committees in accordance with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm. Other Sejm committees have submitted 26 opinions to the Public Finance Commission, with positive opinions. It should be added that the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which gave a positive opinion on the report on the implementation of the state budget in Parts 21: Maritime economy, 62: Fisheries, 83: Special reserves, voivodeships' budgets and the implementation of the financial plan of the National Water Farm of Poland, indicated that requests for a positive opinion on the implementation of the state budget in part: Water management, inland navigation were not supported by the majority of Members participating in the vote. The committee therefore did not deliver an opinion on the implementation of the State budget in these budgetary parts. There was also no opinion of the Commission for State Control. It aroused, among others. the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 14 July to wait out the report of the Committee on Public Finance, but on the basis of the opinion of the Office for Sejm Analysis, the Committee on Public Finance decided to consider these parts of the budget without waiting for the opinion of the audit committee because as the lead committee on the whole budget, it was obliged to report to the Sejm on its work within the time limit set by the Bureau of the Sejm. During the meetings, the Committee on Public Finance took note not only of the opinions of other committees, but also of the opinions of the Cordeferent Members, the positions of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Representatives of the Chamber indicated, among others, the methodology adopted and the extent of the checks carried out and their effects, paying particular attention to the irregularities found. The members of the committee asked questions, there was a discussion, although this discussion did not always take place because the recommendations or information and materials submitted did not sometimes raise any objections. In committee meetings, additional explanations were also provided by representatives of the ministries and other budget managers. During the committee's meeting, Members discussed, inter alia, issues of both general and specific nature, including: concerning irregularities or deficiencies identified by the NIK, improving the collection of taxes and the tax gap, the cost of handling foreign debt, the transparency of public finances, the further fate of the announced reform of public finances or the review of expenditure, including health protection, including hospital debt, employment and remuneration, including e.g. the problem of low wages in the regional financial chambers was raised. The members of the Committee on Public Finance were also interested in matters relating to the Financial Supervision Commission, the expenditure of the Church Fund, the effectiveness of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, the expenditure of the Ombudsman, the relations with the Institute of National Remembrance, the use of European funds, the transfer of funds from the special reserves to the implementation of the 500+ programme, as during 2019 the scope of this programme, expenditure from the Justice Fund and questions concerning the functioning of e.g. Marshal's guards. On 14 July, the Committee on Public Finance voted on the requests made by Members for a negative assessment of the implementation of the budget, and I no longer have time to mention these proposals, in any event these requests (the bell) concerned both budget passages which received positive opinions from the Supreme Audit Chamber and other Sejm committees. All these proposals have not been accepted by the Committee on Public Finance, so it is worth noting that the entire budget has received a positive assessment of the Committee on Public Finance. However, it is worth noting that together the assessments of the Supreme Audit Chamber for the implementation of the State budget in 2019 were better than those which were in 2018 and, in turn, the 2018 was also better than 2017. This shows that there are less and less negative comments and conclusions from the Supreme Audit Chamber, if any, that there were very detailed cases concerning controlled units and that the number of controlled units has again increased significantly in 2019. Therefore, in conclusion, the committee adopted the draft resolution proposed by the committee bureau on 14 July following the vote. In point 1 of that resolution, the committee proposes the adoption of a report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, in point 2 - the granting of discharge to the Council of Ministers for that period, and in point 3 - the request to the authorising officers of the various parts of the budget to take action to remedy the irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber. This is very briefly the report on the work of the Public Finance Commission on the implementation of the State budget for 2019, which includes requests for approval of the report and discharge to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u192	Thank you very much. I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Marian Banasio to present an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives in 2019 and an opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fulfilling the obligation under Article. 204 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present to the High House an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2019, together with the opinion of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2019. As a result, pursuant to Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 198f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm my speaking time has been limited to 5 minutes, I will present only the most important thesis. The Supreme Audit Chamber positively assessed the implementation of the budget law for 2019. It also stated that the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget in all material respects provides reliable information and data on the amount of revenue, expenditure, debts and liabilities and on the results of the implementation of the State budget and the budget of European funds. Among the 145 evaluations of the implementation of the State budget relating to the various parts of the budget and the financial plans of the non-budget entities, positive assessments prevaild. There were 120 of them. We have also formulated 24 evaluations in descriptive form and one negative assessment. Compared to the previous year, the number of positive assessments and descriptive assessments increased, while the number of negative assessments decreased. Only the implementation of the financial plan of the National Water Farm of Poland was negatively assessed. High Seym! The state budget, the budget of the European funds and the financial plans of the non-budget units of the public finance sector have been implemented in accordance with the budget law. The total revenue of the state budget and the budget of European funds was nearly PLN 17 billion higher than projected. Revenue implementation was fostered by a favourable macroeconomic situation, reform of fiscal and customs services, i.e. the establishment of the National Tax Administration, and the implementation and development of IT tools to help taxpayers fulfil tax obligations and the tax administration to enforce them. The expenditure of the state budget and the budget of the European funds in 2019 was implemented in the amount of over PLN 16 billion lower than the limit laid down in the Budget Act. The Supreme Audit Chamber examined the legality, economy, purposefulness and reliability of expenditure of nearly PLN 100 billion. In most cases, expenditure was properly incurred in accordance with the principles of public funds management. Irregularities with a small financial dimension in relation to the total budget consisted mainly of non-targeted and non-economic spending of funds, failure to grant grants, misuse of grants by beneficiaries and non-obligation of budgetary entitlements. We have found cases of non-compliance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Law and the functioning of defective management control mechanisms. There have also been errors in the accounting records in the reporting. High Seym! The total deficit of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to PLN 11.1 billion. It was 34 billion PLN lower than planned. It was financed by the inflow of free funds from the non-budget units of the State Treasury. This means that the Minister of Finance did not have to incur additional debt in the financial markets. Nevertheless, the Treasury's debt increased by PLN 19 billion in 2019. This was influenced, among others. a loan to the Solidarity Fund of nearly PLN 9 billion to finance the so-called. 13th pension and free transfer of treasury bonds to higher education institutions, the Self-Government Road Fund and public media in the total amount of almost PLN 6 billion. These operations were authorised by law, but the way in which they were carried out and registered reduced the transparency of public finances. High Seym! The Supreme Audit Chamber, after carrying out checks at the National Bank of Poland, assessed positively the implementation of monetary policy in 2019. The inflation target has been achieved and monetary policy has supported sustainable economic growth and balance in the financial market. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The total government deficit... [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Seym! The College of Supreme Audit, following an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy objectives in 2019, adopted a resolution in which it expressed a favourable opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2019. At the same time, the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out the need to speed up the work on the reform of the budgetary system, including the development of a new comprehensive model of budgetary planning and the revision of the budgeting rules in the Task Force. The College of the Supreme Audit Chamber also drew attention to the need to increase the effectiveness of the strategic review of expenditure. This is particularly important in the context of the deepening of the imbalances in public finances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to inform you that Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Minister of Finance, asked for a vote at the moment. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u195	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2019 was another good year for Poland in a row, not only through the economic perspective, but also from the point of view of public finances. From January to December 2019 we were able to observe and enjoy very good data coming from the real sphere of the economy, which exceeded our expectations and forecasts originally contained in the Budget Act, for example. to the expected growth of gross domestic product, wage increases as well as recorded unemployment. Moreover, thanks to the use of economic prosperity and the continued positive effects of previous successful measures in the area of tax sealing, it was possible to maintain the necessary security and sustainability of public finances. In 2019 GDP in Poland increased by 4.1% in real terms, i.e. by 0,3% more than the forecast contained in the Budget Act for 2019. It is worth noting that the real rate of GDP growth in Poland in 2019 was significantly higher than the EU average, which averaged 1.5% for all 27 countries in the Community. There was further improvement in the labour market in 2019. The year-end unemployment rate was 5.2% and was 0.6% lower than at the end of 2018 The high dynamics of private consumption and investment and the good labour market situation and new social transfers have had a significant impact on speeding up real income growth at the disposal of households. The implementation of the budget in 2019 showed that it was carefully developed on the basis of very realistic assumptions. The tax revenue of the State budget was higher than that planned in the Budget Act by 7.6 billion. However, compared to the previous year, the increase in tax revenues amounted to as much as 17.9 billion PLN. This positive performance of State budget income taxes was mainly influenced by higher CIT receipts, resulting from sealing measures undertaken by the Ministry of Finance and the National Tax Administration, as well as a better macroeconomic situation than originally planned. Thanks to the high implementation of the state budget revenue, the necessary financial resources were provided both for the continuation of the government's current socio-economic policy priorities and for the implementation of new tasks. It is worth mentioning, first of all, an increase in the scope of the programme - the family of 500+, for the first child from 1 July Ub. R., i.e. without income criterion, and further increase the expenditure on sectoral expenditure in the field of national defence, health and science. As regards the government budget deficit, it should be noted that in 2019 it reached a level lower than that planned in the Budget Act. The deficit in 2019 amounted to PLN 13.7 billion, which is 14.8 billion less than its limit, which is set at PLN 28.5 billion. The general government deficit by European methodology was 0.7% in 2019 GDP, which is a value close to the average deficit for all 27 Community countries, which was in the EU. 0.6% GDP. The actual deficit level in Poland proved to be lower both in comparison with the figure set out in the Budget Act for 2019, i.e. forecast at 1,7% GDP, as compared to the European Commission's autumn forecast. year, which estimated this at 1,0% GDP. As regards the second key budgetary parameters, namely government debt, it decreased to 46% in relation to GDP at the end of 2019 in Poland. GDP, which is a significantly better value than the figure in the Budget Act, where it was forecast at 48.9%. To conclude, I would like to thank you very much from this point of view for the work that you have done (The Bell) during your parliamentary work, both at the stage of the procedure and the adoption of the 2019 budget law and now at the stage of the report on its implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u196	Thank you very much. I am now asking Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to present a report on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2019 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Mr. President of the National Bank of Poland! Mr. President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, with a group of excellent accompanying people, who are also the authors of what we are here today to discuss! I also thank you for the high time limit, because my 5 minutes for this range, which I have to discuss, compared to the topics discussed by the President of NIK or the Minister, is indeed a great generosity. Thank you for those five minutes. The modesty of the Minister is widely known. I'm talking about proportions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Invited Guests! Information on guarantees and guarantees granted in 2019 and in other years, guarantees of the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is a prostration and results directly from the provisions of the Constitution. Polish Constitution in Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5 expressly states that the total amount of loans, liabilities, guarantees and guarantees paid by the State must not exceed the , GDP. That is why, when discussing the implementation of the budget, this honour and pleasure have also fallen on me, to present here in the High House today, how the guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury in 2019 were presented, also by legal persons, as well as - it may be interesting, but very important and important - by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, a bank which has a very important and extremely useful function in the political system of the State, but about it in a moment. Now, as far as the facts are concerned, I'm going to say that all the information is contained in a print bearing the number 401. This is a study, which contains numerous examples and very concretely presents the matter itself, what size it was, what it was about, at what time it was to whom and how it was guaranteed. But in trying to systematize this, I would say that in terms of the main point, i.e. the State Treasury guarantees given in the year under consideration at the moment, i.e. in 2019, these were three such guarantees given for specific tasks. Those were infrastructure tasks. The guarantees concerned the Warsaw-Radom railway road, the Lublin-Rzeszów expressway and the Via Baltica expressway. In total, these guarantees amounted to an amount close to PLN 7 billion. These guarantees are further guarantees increasing the whole volume of all guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury. As a result, as a result of granting further guarantees, the sum, i.e. the global level of guarantees and guarantees of the State Treasury, reached the level of over 111 billion PLN at the end of 2019. There are different assessments, different parameters for assessing these guarantees. The guarantee looks very technically and innocuous, but it is very important, since the mere assumption of the word "guarantee' is an alleged potential commitment by the State to those issues to which these guarantees and guarantees concern. It's a very important matter. One of the very important and interesting parameters, as in banking, is the assessment - let's use such a word - health, condition, quality of these guarantees, and so the word "risk" must fall. These guarantees have in them, each guarantee has - let us add immediately - certain risks, but there are guarantees with greater and less risk, and in banking - weak, questionable and even lost loans. Even reserves are created, even at 100% When there's already a very bad perspective. Here fortunately - we must say this - the condition of these guarantees and guarantees is very good. It is worth to say that there are five such categories, depending on the degree of risk, and that all guarantees and guarantees given by the State Treasury, by the Polish state, all 111 billion PLN... These guarantees fall into the first and second categories, i.e. low, so safe, to say... I'm looking at it with concern... I'm just getting warmed up. Five minutes is really not enough. The most interesting... I think I'm gonna go to dessert. If Mr. Marshal agrees, I'll tell you about the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, because that's the transition. It's kind of in the middle of today. This is very important because - prostrate to the predecessors - since 2009. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego participates in indirect and direct support of entrepreneurship. It's very important because we're gonna be working on it. And now, at the present time, and previously so, the entry of the Bank of National Farms into shares is that it cooperates with commercial banks. Banks have very tough, very demanding security rules, and the state can make things easier and easier. In short, it gives banks guarantees, as if counter-guarantees, secures them: grant loans and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego secures it. I also want to talk about what matters in the context of the crisis and the COVID. The minowice is about liquidity. There are entire programs, ideas of various kinds aimed at ensuring and improving the liquidity of access to capital for Polish entrepreneurs. This could even come back with double force. It is very important to make these loans much easier. The Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has ideas, proposals to support entrepreneurs through guarantee funds or various regional institutions. I can no longer speak, so I would like, in conclusion, to say yes: on 24 June, the Committee on Public Finance, following a careful analysis of this subject, recommended without opposition - it must be stressed - the High House's adoption of this information. This is a good time to bet a dot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u198	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, to present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2019.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High House! As President of the National Bank of Poland and Chairman of the Monetary Policy Council on 29 May 2020, I submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm a report on the implementation of monetary policy assumptions for 2019 and a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2019. In view of the time constraints introduced, I will allow myself at today's session of the Sejm, in line with yesterday's request from the High Sejm committee, to present the most important actions taken by the central bank in connection with the announcement of the pandemic state. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent months, we have faced a major global challenge. The pandemic was a threat not only to public health but also to the economy. As a result, the economy has, at least temporarily, fallen into the deepest global recession in decades. Pandemia, together with the need for restrictions, also caused a marked deterioration of the economic situation in Poland. In order to reduce the scale of the negative economic impact and to counter the economic downturn, decisive steps had to be taken on the economic side. The NBP plays a very important role in this respect. Firstly, we have ensured the smooth operation of the payment system, which is the basis for the functioning of the economy. Secondly, we supplied Poles with cash, which was temporarily, especially in times of greatest uncertainty, high demand. Thirdly, we have loosened monetary policy, thus helping to improve the financial situation of thousands of businesses and households and increasing the chance for the Polish economy to return to growth quickly. At the same time, we are reducing the risk of falling inflation below the target in the medium term, which is our primary task. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The NBP was one of the first central banks in Europe to respond in advance to the expected deterioration of the economic situation. Since mid-March we started activities supporting the Polish economy. In particular, we have tripled the interest rates, including the NBP reference rate, by a total of 1,4 percentage points. This translated into significant savings for households and businesses due to the reduction of instalments from borrowings and improved the ability of borrowers to handle liabilities towards banks. I would like to point out that thanks to the reduction in interest rates, the instalment of average housing loans fell by about 120 PLN. For lower rates of housing and consumer loans and loans to businesses in household and business budgets, almost PLN 7 billion will be available annually. In addition, 7 billion PLN remained in the pockets of borrowers and owners of companies. The reduction of interest rates by their impact on the profitability of government bonds translated and will also translate into lower public debt handling costs. The public funds thus saved may be used to finance other public expenditure, which is particularly important during the pandemic. The impact of the interest rate reduction on the cost of financing all sectors of the economy was reinforced by the NBP's launch of the purchase of bonds issued and guaranteed by the Treasury on the secondary market. Total in the first half of 2020 The NBP purchased debt securities with a nominal value of PLN 96 200 million, providing the banking sector with PLN 101 600 million. The purpose of securities buying is to change the long-term liquidity structure in the banking sector and to preserve the liquidity of the secondary market of those securities. The purchase of assets has also effectively reduced the risk of an increase in the profitability of government bonds and those guaranteed by the Treasury. In doing so, the NBP prevented the strengthening of financial conditions, thus limiting the risk of a permanent deterioration of the prospects for the development of the Polish economy and an excessive fall in price dynamics. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main challenge for the banking sector in relation to the pandemic is the expected increase in credit risk costs as a result of the deterioration of the situation of borrowers. The scale of credit write-downs is, of course, difficult to estimate. The reduction of interest rates by the NBP, together with other cover measures implemented by public institutions, significantly reduced the risk to institutions and borrowers and thus has an impact on the relative improvement of loan repayment. This means relatively lower credit risk costs for banks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The macroeconomic shock associated with COVID has an impact on the banks' tendency to grant new loans, and its response may be an excessive reduction in credit supply. In order to address this phenomenon, the Financial Stability Committee, as a macro-prudential supervisory authority, which I chair as President of the NBP, recommended that the Finance Minister reduce to zero the systemic risk buffer of 3%. As a result, banks received at their disposal a capital of about PLN 30 billion, which has so far been frozen. This allows for loans of about PLN 300 billion for companies, which is as much as has been granted in the course of the year. The NBP has also ensured adequate liquidity of banks through the repo operation, reduction of the minimum reserve rate and the purchase of the bonds I mentioned. We also allowed banks to refinance loans, introducing the so-called for the first time. a note credit, refinanced by the National Bank of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In March, we saw a huge increase in the demand of market participants for cash. We had a run for ATMs and bank windows, the demand for material money increased by 24%. We have satisfied this demand. In particular, there was a demand for 100- and 200-gold banknotes. At some point we started to introduce, due to the periodic lack of 100- and 200-gold banknotes, 500-gold banknotes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I am pleased to inform you that the National Bank of Poland generated a profit of PLN 7800 million in 2019. On 1 June 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the According to the NBP Act, the NBP transferred 90% that amount, i.e. PLN 7400 million, to the state budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would again ask Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u201	Dear Marshal, Mr. President! High Izbo! The Commission took note of yesterday's... Actually, not yesterday, sorry, 21 July, which was the day before yesterday, took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2019 contained in print No 394, the report is print No 504. During the discussion, of course, even though the report concerned 2019, questions were raised concerning 2020, including: the actions of the National Bank of Poland and the role of the National Bank of Poland in combating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. I thank the President very much for this statement, which, of course, does not concern 2019, but has been of particular interest to the ladies and gentlemen of the committee. On the other hand, as regards the discussion on the report, the pay system in the NBP, educational campaigns, in particular the educational campaign on the introduction of the euro, was asked. The NBP's profit calculation method was also of great interest, as this profit in 95% feeds the state budget. As the President mentioned, for 2019 this profit amounted to over PLN 7800 million, of which more than PLN 7400 million was paid to the budget, and for 2018 this profit was not and the budget of 2019 did not have such a supply. Hence this interest, the methodology for calculating the profit of NBP was an object of interest. Finally, in the conclusions of its position, the committee notes that it took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 56 and 6 minutes, i.e. short-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk will be the first to speak again, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. Mr Star Member today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Membership! Allow me now to present the club's position regarding the implementation of the 2019 budget, although several parameters have already been provided by Minister Kościński. The 2019 budget was, of course, implemented under favourable economic conditions, but the favourable economic conditions for Poland were not common conditions, because in the vicinity these economic conditions deteriorated significantly. Thus, in Poland the economic downturn over the year was weakened, from 4.8 GDP growth in the first quarter to 3.2 in the last quarter. However, total GDP growth for 2019 was 4.1% and was one of the highest in the European Union, it was greater than foreseen in the budget assumptions by 0,3%. Hence, nominal GDP amounts to more than PLN 2273 billion, or 7.2%. nominally higher than in 2018. Of course, maintaining relatively high growth during 2019 Poland's GDP is due to a combination of many factors, above all to the continued prosperity of the domestic market. The main reason for the good economic situation on the domestic market was the excellent state of the labour market, practically zero unemployment. Unemployment based on surveys fell from 3.8% in 2018 to 2,9% in 2019, which actually meant, especially in more urban areas, an over-demand for work, i.e. an employee market. The rate of registered unemployment, i.e. one where the number of registered posts counts, has also decreased significantly to 5.2%. Of course, in this case this figure also includes structural unemployment, so the significant descent below this size is almost impossible, which is why I use this phrase: zero unemployment. This also led to a high increase in nominal wage, which increased by 7.2%. So there were these, too. thanks to such an economic policy, excellent conditions for implementing the budget. Although the implementation of the budget was also linked to social benefits, this resulted in an increase in consumption of 4.1%. Thus, thanks to this economic situation, cheap credit, the excellent financial situation of companies also increased investment expenditure by 7.2% during the year. They were like internal factors that were kept at an excellent level. External factors, on the other hand, were factors that indicated the deterioration of the situation in the external environment. This was also related to the industrial recession with our largest commercial recipient, Germany, but Poland has shown an extremely high resistance to this phenomenon here. Although industrial production dynamics decreased from 6% at the beginning of the year to 3.8% at the end of the year, but still it was a significant positive dynamic. Therefore, given the difficult situation with foreign trading partners, this result should be considered to be excellent under these conditions. As import dynamics and export dynamics were weakened simultaneously, the external trade balance has also contributed to GDP growth almost throughout the year, despite the existence in 2019 of a serious threat to the global economy linked mainly to the potential trade war between China and the US. The year 2019, despite these complications, was much more difficult in the world, then it was less economic growth than in 2018. In the euro area, economic growth has already been very low, about 1.2%. , compared to 2018,1.9% , and 4.1% in Poland it looks on this background It's really great. The fact that the economic performance in 2019 was very good, in principle in line with the government's expectations - even slightly exceeded expectations - also facilitated the implementation of the budget. Maintaining a good pace of GDP growth and a demand structure conducive to tax revenue across the country has helped to achieve budgetary revenue. On the other hand, rapid wage growth, low unemployment and an increasing number of employees have also contributed to a significant increase in social security revenues whether in the Labour Fund, so that it was possible to achieve a calmly increased amount of money, increased revenue was spent on social expenditure, which in turn strengthened internal consumption. These general economic conditions in 2019 should therefore in general be considered as conducive to the implementation of the budget. That's what happened. The State's financial policy, which was characterised by a reduction in the deficit-to-GDP ratio and a decline in debt-to-GDP ratio between 2015 and 2019, also contributed to this. This is extremely important, and that is what I will talk about at the end, referring a little bit to the current situation, how much this has made it easier for us to function in the pandemic era. It is also worth noting that these tax revenues have increased significantly, and that under conditions not increasing tax rates, not introducing new taxes. On the contrary, these tax rates decreased, i.e. during the year, the tax rate of PIT was reduced from 18% to 17%, the tax-free amount increased. Thus, it is very clear here that a very important change has been introduced, i.e. the exemption from PIT of young people up to the age of 26, and still tax revenues were much higher than in previous years. I think that the comparable measure of tax revenue and the efficiency of the fiscal system of the State is not the amount in absolute figures, but the ratio of tax revenue to GDP. Consider that the tax-to-GDP ratio increased significantly in 2019 compared to previous years, e.g. by 2015, when the tax income ratio was 14.4% , and in 2019 and 16,2% GDP. Nearly 2% GDP has increased so-called. tax efficiency. This is the whole point of economic success, remembering that, however, tax rates did not increase anywhere, and in some places decreased. This, of course, is the effect of declaring an effective war against the VAT mobs, because that's what this is mostly about. This relationship, which is increased compared to 2015, results in almost PLN 50 billion being recovered annually from tax revenue, which was previously unfortunately very effective. outside the tax system. As some have said, taxes were then privatized. This is therefore an extremely important comparison, because absolute figures themselves - if we do not separate them from inflation, from GDP growth, from wage growth - may not be meaningful. On the other hand, comparing tax efficiency, i.e. the effectiveness of the fiscal system without raising taxes, is extremely important here. This allowed for a much larger social goal. There have also been changes in the financial situation and the stability of the state's finances. Although social expenditure was increased and during the year it was decided to increase it by further billions of zlotys, i.e. spending on 500+ for all children was introduced during the year - which was extremely important - that, as we hear, the government budget deficit was much lower, more than half the planned financial plan adopted on the budget. So you can see very clearly the very smart, responsible financial and economic policy of the Polish government. This is, you could say, the most important phenomenon that I wanted to draw attention to, because no other goals could have been achieved if not for very effective tax enforcement, eliminating fraud, VAT mafia, etc. This is what makes it possible to achieve social objectives and these increased expenditures, and these expenditures, of course, were no longer increased according to this plan, i.e. both those tax revenues and those expenses remained normal. But let's keep these social goals in mind. Maybe we're not all paying attention, but here's what I've already mentioned, the extension of the 500+ programme to the first child and without the income criterion, the payment of a single pension benefit to pensioners, i.e. the so-called. 13th pension, I say: so-called. 13th, because she was the thirteenth pension for those who had the smallest pension or income tax exemption of people up to 26 years old. For the first time, there was such a significant tax relief for those entering the labour market. This has made them more competitive in the labour market. This is also extremely important, I would say, a decision, a reduction in the universal tax rate, a PIT tax on individuals, from 18 to 17%. This is an extremely important decision. Despite these decisions, the budget deficit was lower than in previous years. Another thing is the payment of supplementary parental benefits for people who have raised at least four children, the increase in salaries of teachers employed in schools, educational institutions run by ministers, but also by local self-government units. It's an increase in salaries in the state budget area. I will remind you, over the previous years, the salaries in the budgetary sphere have been frozen, or the revalorisation of pensions, not, as it was sometimes, a symbolic revalorisation of several or several zlotys, but the valorization of percentage pensions, but also a minimum rate of quota. There have also been activities that may be of less monetary importance, but are extremely important, even if they are to restore or finance bus connections, especially for small towns and villages. National defence expenditure was also increased in 2019. This will be discussed in more detail by the colleagues. We are one of the leaders when it comes to fulfilling our ally commitments, and we are above 2%. GDP, which, of course, produces such results that it is in Poland that American troops are stationed. That's the security guarantee. Health expenditure has also been increased, and this is important, because in 2019 it amounted to 5.18% GDP, and not so long ago, when we introduced the law, 6% , i.e. this target level of health expenditure, in the Act 6% They were at 4.4% back then. GDP. So it is very clear that we are systematically moving in the right direction - a significant increase in healthcare funding. Budget expenditure amounted to over 414 billion and increased. Although they were several billion more than budget revenues, 13.8 billion, it turned out that they were lower than the plan by PLN 2 billion. There are no special deviations from this plan in particular, except maybe European measures, but this is always the case here, it needs to be clarified that all those who use European funds always plan to spend European funds very ambitiously and then implement, including local self-government units, already look different. This reserve, the famous reserve, item 8, European co-financing, is usually not used. Thus, for 2019, the lack in the implementation of reserve 8, item 8, was indeed small in relation to what had happened many, many years ago. Ladies and gentlemen! Incredibly important, it is worth emphasising that tax revenues were important above all in relation to expenditure, it is also a declining commitment of public finances. Compared to GDP, our debt is steadily decreasing, which is extremely important. And there's what I've been announcing in the context of what happened this year during the pandemic period. If at the end of 2019 this public debt, the Treasury debt, was 42,8% compared to GDP, if we were to compare the years in which it was more than 55% So that's the first prudential threshold in the Finance Act... How do you count it? ...in the Public Finance Act... Then, in fact, we remember to save ourselves from exceeding 60%. The constitutional threshold, you had to reach for the OFE, open pension funds. And here is a very important difference from what's been going on, that's 13%. difference, so that's 13%. GDP opens up an extremely important gateway and opportunities, this margin of security, just the one that was needed now. This margin of safety, if we consider that the 12 or 13% This is nearly PLN 300 billion... So with this margin of security, thanks to these years, the government... In these years, the rule of law and justice has been able to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. With this margin of security, we are entering 2020 which is indeed a very difficult year, but thanks to the fact that this margin of security has been worked out, we can feel safer, entrepreneurs and all employees can feel safe because they will always receive help. I'm afraid to think about what would happen if we had a debt of 55% right now. or more than 55% GDP. That way this help would be impossible, because it would probably have to change the constitution. So because we have this state's finances, we can feel safe and well taken care of in this very difficult 2020 year, which is certainly an unusual year. With the state's financial situation at the end of 2019, we are fully safe and prepared to move through this unique situation of 2020 as few countries in Europe. Which, of course, is a huge credit to the wise and responsible economic and fiscal policy of the Polish government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask that Mrs Izabela Leszczyna speak, which will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have to start with two corrections. Firstly, the lie of the Minister of Social Policy, who said that the PO-PSL government did not take any action when Poland was hit by the biggest economic crisis in 100 years. Well, the Minister of Labour should know that the crisis came to Poland with some delay. This is why we built cover packages and crisis programmes in 2009. And it's worth knowing. Constitutional ministers should not imitate the Prime Minister in lies because, as the example of Matthew Morawiecki shows, the lie easily enters the blood. [[Applause]] And yet, Mr Kowalczyk - if not for the change that the Civic Platform has made in the case of open pension funds, you would have exactly 55% public debt. Do you know why? Because you left 70, right? What about OFE? Because apart from the fact that we have redeemed part of this debt in bonds - and that is why we have reduced debt, you have increased it in 2016. - you really do not realize that every year you would have to pay over 20 billion PLN to OFE? Really, let's be honest here, because the High House is. [[Applause]] Of course. And now returning to the 2019 budget, the 2019 budget is cloudy water. The dull water in which the PiS government feels perfectly, because it can hide a lot of irregularities there. It is a budget that puts us in the top ten countries with the highest deficit, although 16 countries in the European Union were able to generate a budget surplus last year. In Poland, the structural deficit, i.e. the one cleared of the economic impact, was estimated by the European Commission last year to be as high as 2,7% GDP, while the EU average is 1.1% GDP. This makes us in five countries with the highest structural deficit. In addition, the average costs of debt handling, contrary to the well-being of the President of the National Bank of Poland, who mentioned this, are among the highest in Poland. And they're getting On average, last year it was 3%, and the EU average is 2%. This should be an important message for those daredevils from the Ministry of Finance who suggest that we could raise the limit of constitutional debt to 90% and what. Think, gentlemen, what would be the cost of handling this debt, because really free lunches nobody's gonna be buying you. First of all, no one's gonna give them to the citizens, because you never deal with your money, and that's what you should remember. The 2019 budget is the budget of a number of special-purpose funds which did not finance what they were called for. It is a budget in which the government spent PLN 22 billion on something completely different than it was supposed to spend. They wrote one down, and they did the other. It was a serious charge by the Supreme Auditorium. It is also another budget for unfulfilled EU projects. The budget of EU funds, which is a separate budget, is the only budget we have where we have a surplus, but if we don't invest, it doesn't seem to be. In the 2019 budget, contrary to what the Minister and the Member spoke about, there is not a penny from the VAT mafia. It was supposed to be more than PLN 4.5 billion, such were planned revenues from sealing, and nothing. Nothing. 40 billion from the seal, Member, 40. I'd like to ask the Minister if that means the mob is hovering around the state ruled by the PiS. And with this privatisation of taxes, Mr, I would also be careful, because as we speak of privatisation, 2019 was the year when the PiS privatized the health system. What's this all about? The Poles in their private pocket have never spent as much money and have not added as much to health care as in 2019. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Finally, the 2019 budget is a broad stream of expenditure outside the stabilising expenditure rule. It was another charge from the Supreme Board of Control, but PiS found a way to do it. What did they do? Yesterday, in the Posted Workers Act, they threw the rule in the trash. There's no thermometer - all healthy. Next year we will not even know exactly what they spend, what they think and what happens to Polish taxpayers' money. By the way, why did you do it in the Posted Workers Act? It was to be put into the Health Act. That's where you came in with Sasin's help, where you introduced a sugar tax, a law that doesn't exist. If you'd put the rule in the basket there, we'd have an example of Sevres ruining the law. I am pleased that the Health Committee has cast the opposition's vote in the trash. Because this law is also worth mentioning when it comes to public finances. In the NFZ, you centralize everything, that's your domain. Just everywhere, in all areas decisions should be made in your opinion in the headquarters, because as if such a not enough PiS-Polish director of the NFZ somewhere in the region... It doesn't fit into your concept of state at all. Thus, the decision-making of the directors of the NFZ somewhere in the south will have to be eliminated, the decisions will be taken by Warsaw. You create a PRL prayer, a country in which people, all those who stand below you in this broken bureaucratic hierarchy, the masters of the world, are afraid, are incarcerated by decision. And if someone thinks that the philosophy and governance of the state doesn't translate into public finances, they're wrong. The 2019 budget is an absolutely good summary of the four-year term of PiS government, during which the destruction of the state and its institutions went hand in hand with the destruction of public finances. This is the kind of governance that has led us to have a historic deficit. And this is not about PLN 100 billion, as the Minister of Finance says, because state expenditure, Minister, is not just a budget. The state is more than that. This deficit this year will amount to over PLN 230 billion. Plus, it's a lie to say it's COVID's fault. This is all the fault of the PiS government's bad decisions. Just now, from this speaker, the Minister of Policy and Labour spoke about the fact that 118 billion PLN went to entrepreneurs. 115. Let it be: PLN 115 billion. This is the half of the deficit you're giving us. But that's not the end of it. After all, the lion's share of this aid is financed by Treasury bonds. Some BFG... Sorry: Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego deals with this, PFR deals with it. This has nothing to do with the deficit. This deficit is the fault of the PiS and it is the result of your irrational, irresponsible, just hopeless policy that you have been pursuing in the country for almost five years. [[Applause]] All the time adjectives without specifics. The destruction of Polish state institutions and finance went hand in hand with the inability of the PiS government. Because the numbers don't add up. I am already talking about the specifics, sir. If you could build something over the last four years, create a flywheel for the Polish economy, such as thousands of kilometers of highways, expressways, local roads, dozens of bypasses and bridges built by the Civic Platform. They're full of children. But nothing like that ever happened. You didn't make it. Not a half of the investment over the last four years. Really? Member, there are limits to lying. Nothing, sir. Nothing. The strategy for responsible development, which, in addition to numerous misconceptions, had several promotional objectives, has never gone beyond the PowerPoint presentation. S17. Our way. You've been building Euros and that's enough. Instead of increasing the investment rate, you funded the Polish economy with an investment collapse. There was no public investment because you couldn't do it, there wasn't any private investment because you scared the entrepreneurs. I don't know if the constitution for business... [[Game in the O.R.]] We agreed not to have a discussion in the courtroom in the benches... I'm sorry. I understand you're in pain, but that's the truth. You are unable to indicate any such investment. So once again, entrepreneurs don't invest because they're just scared. They'd rather not risk their money. Besides, it is difficult for them to be surprised, because indicators concerning the perception of corruption in Poland during your governments have deteriorated dramatically. When we gave you Poland in 2016, we had 29th place... I think the voters have decided. It was an evaluation for 2015. We were in 29th place. You know what we have now? 41. We're down 12 places. It was during your reigns that Poland fell in the ranking on perception of corruption. [[Applause]] Nowak's friend shouldn't talk about corruption. Tell that to Minister Ziobra. Because he's so well-being, so he probably doesn't know it at all. And don't ever say you're fighting corruption and the mob because you're just putting yourself at risk. You mobs grew up in ministries, among others. at the Ministry of Finance. [[Applause]] Another reason for collapse in investments is the regression of Poland's position in terms of business conditions. It's all yours, too. Do you know where we were in the 2015 Doing Business ranking? We had a 25th place. What day is it today? 40. Congratulations. Instead of pro-innovative investments, you have established the Medical Research Agency, which is headed by Minister Szumowski's assistant. And who's getting grants there? Minister Szumowski's brother. This is the civilization leap you're offering us? [[Applause]] Oh... Maybe. But why is it a leap towards Belarus? That's not what we agreed to do. Get out of Belarus. The production of electric cars, modern ferries didn't work either. It was supposed to be a modern weapons industry. It ended with a figure of St. Michael the Archangel in front of the armor company in Maskpol. And an advance. Don't mix the saints. Maskpol is an interesting company. It's a company that PiS presidents, among others. Marian Banasi's son almost went bankrupt. That's how you rule Poland. In general, in the Treasury companies, you are acting like the Wandal tribes in Rome. That's why their results fell on their necks before the world even heard about COVID. All the companies were already down. The cherry on the cake in your management of these national silvers will probably be the take-over of Lotus by Orlen, which will prove to be a privatization of Lotus, just that it is fatal, because it is a hen who endures golden eggs, and you will have to sell it into the hands of foreign capital unless you recognize that that's what you want. What's she saying? Who wanted to sell? But maybe it'll be a better deal than the one with the guy on the slope, sir. I don't know. Because if that's not the case, you can only be talking about budget revenue, because somehow you have to bury this Moravian hole, and you have no idea how to do it. And from this transaction, there's money, and it's gonna be a lot of money. And last but not least, that's the point. Yesterday, she laughed at the information that Poland was catching up with the rich countries of the European Union twice as fast during the 8 years of government of the Civic Platforms and PSL than during the 4 years of the PiS rule. This information should not please you, but rather sadden you. Look, I'm gonna explain to you again what this is all about. Well, the indicator that shows the welfare of society is GDP per capita, that is, per capita. Between 2008 and 2015, as we ruled, this rate increased from 56% of the EU average to 69% of the EU average. That's 13 percentage points. During the 4 years of government, PiS increased this rate from 69% to 73%, or 4% in 4 years, 4 percentage points. You understand that 13 points over 8 years is more dynamic than 4 points over 4 years. This means precisely that Poland, during the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL, was catching up with the European standard of living twice as fast as in the times of the PiS government. [[Applause]] Whoever was catching up was catching up. I'm sure it'll happen again. I am convinced that it will still be normal, all the more so that history has shown that the Wandal tribes are gone and Rome is still standing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Hanna Gill-Friday, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u207	High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard in this House that the state budget was executed perfectly, that everything is in the tables, because the paper will accept everything. But beyond these rows of digits is our real life, the lives of millions of Polish families, which PiS supposedly cares about. There are everyday problems and overcrowded apartments. To expensive drugs and too high bills. There are lines to doctors and difficult choices when you have to part with work because there's no room in daycare or kindergarten. There are loans for the funeral of loved ones because the government hasn't seen the prices of curias in cemeteries in small cities in years. This is our common everyday life, which somehow didn't fit in this budget. On the other hand, other expenditures were included, e.g. 23 million to rent the luxurious seat of the Financial Supervision Authority. In the meantime, KNF's former headquarters were light-handed for free use. We could've had a few million out of it. Not much? Tell that to the parents who collect for expensive foreign operations for their children. It was such a family who over the past year struggled bravely, and they were amazed to see such reports. Nobody would allow themselves to be so wasteful in the house budget, because for ordinary people the cost of renting an apartment exceeds the minimum wage for which 1.5 million people live in this country. Another 2.5 million pays mortgage loans, and the cheap apartments you promised to rent as they didn't, they don't. In 2019 38% of us lived on too small a surface. It is only worse in Bulgaria, Latvia and Romania. You are proud to announce that Poles are to return to the country, although even the President's daughter works in London, only that here half the 30-year-olds still live with their parents. Where are they going to go? In the bathroom or in the kitchen? You even planned the money in the budget for it. You put 520 million in the housing reserve. So what if 90% What else did you take the money for? Didn't you know you needed them? How was this budget even planned when according to NIK, 27% of all reserves were transferred to other purposes? Each of the 2.5 million apartments promised by you is literally important. How many mothers raising children per 14 m2 A completely different face, the government shows organizations that support victims of violence. The Łódź Women's Rights Center has released workers because the government for abused mothers prefers to provide confession rather than study. This is a country that gives to the Church without restraint and takes away the victims of violence. A state weak for the strong and strong for the weak. How did a woman from a smaller town feel when he saw Marshal Kuchciński fly on business planes while she was standing at the bus stop waiting for a bus? What are you better at than millions of Poles who can't drive even on time and clean PKS, because only 18 million were spent from the bus toll fund? What were the terms of this program if the local authorities did not report to it? What is this woman supposed to do? Change jobs and take credit for a car? And since we're with local governments, you've been screwing them up, destroying public services. NIK shows that since 2015 education subsidies have decreased by 6 percentage points in relation to expenditure. However, when we look at the reports of municipalities or powiats in more detail, what we did as a Left, it turns out that local governments added 4 billion more to education than in 2015, i.e. in fact, underfunding for education increased by 1/3. Because of this, teachers didn't get their salary in November in the Church Office, because they didn't have any money for raises in the budget. Increases that teachers had to fight with the biggest strike since 1993. The quality of education is also falling because local governments have to connect or close institutions. But what are you guys You know that, since ministers send their children to elite private schools. What are your children better than ours? If you really cared for the Polish family, it would be enough for proper education and safe roads. Perhaps then 18 - year - olds carrying their friends would not have collide with the truck on the piercing route from Kłoczew to Żelechów. 18-year-old Krystian was killed at the scene, and he had his whole life ahead of him. However, the Local Roads Fund remains as much as 15% in order to improve safety. measures. Transport expenditure is not at all a strong side of this report. Only 89% roads and railway repairs that stretch like a train from Łódź to Kutn. Environmentally friendly transport - only four of the six tasks. Much better with the transport of friendly power, because for 7 million you bought government limousines in the middle of last year a TV, fridge, four-zone air conditioning. Not that I'm jealous, but we're paying over 130 grand for your numerous collisions. PLN per quarter. But a policeman who, let's agree, in this country doesn't earn coconuts, pays a broken squad car out of his own pocket for three times his salary. Because the state budget can afford to crash your limousines, but to buy AC for people putting themselves in jeopardy for us on the streets no longer. In the year in which teachers were on strike outside the windows of the Sejm, and in the corridors on which you walked, the carers of people with disabilities paid 419 million to each other for prizes and bonuses. In a country where one in five Poles works in public administration, this amount is a slap, because a quarter of the budget has a payout of less than 2 000. Others, like the cleaning staff, work on trash cans, hired by outside companies. Because it's your very caring country that ends up where you can save on the weakest. What do you have to say to them? That they're gonna get their 13th pension? And the other twelve will be, I'm sorry, how high will they be? When normally living people see what you're doing, you tell them they got 500+. And thank you for that, although the record inflation of these 500 has already left 460. That's fair - 460, not 300. But one program does not replace the good social policy that we are fighting against you as a Left. Extreme poverty has been increasing for three years. 2 million people are unable to provide the basis for their existence. But child poverty is growing even faster. What's wrong with you guys not seeing this? But the rich are getting better in Poland. The Prime Minister boasts that income differences are falling, but the gap rate in 2019 has increased rather than decreased. And instead of filling up these differences, you gave yours. You had everything in your hand to make people better. So, when as much as 13% Poles misjudge their health, and the average man in this country will live by 4.5 years less than his EU peer. Why? Because you can't deal with a damn problem that's sick health care. A year ago, Mr. Krzysztof of Sosnowiec bled for nine hours and exsanguinated from pain. No one helped him when he died in agony in the E.R. April - death at the SOR after 10 hours of waiting with a heart attack, Wodzisław Śląski, Marcin, 35. March - pregnant Paulina, 21. She had a massive stroke, but no one helped her in the hospital for five hours. Cieszyn, Sanok, Czestochowa, Jaworzno, Rybnik, Warszawa, Tarnowskie Góry - people everywhere died waiting for help. So this is what you're calling an increase in health care expenditure, or maybe overcrowded psychiatry units with bloody sheets on their beds in the hallways? And besides, the budget checks out. Except it's not the Poles' budget, it's some kind of PiS caste. The real social sensitivity is known not by declarations, but by actions, after the fact that in times of economic prosperity you could not share the rewards granted to yourself, because, as Beata Szydło once exclaimed, this money simply belonged to you. Such a report from the budget of privileges and powers, from the wastefulness of the Left, cannot and will be rejected. [[Applause]] You should have written the budget better, Tadeusz. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! Gentlemen of the presidents! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish Coalition on the committee's report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 together with the analysis of the implementation of the State budget presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber. As for the general opinion on budget implementation, it is difficult to resist the impression that it is a budget of a powdered reality of public finances, a budget of hiding costs, so that they are not visible, a budget of huge deficits in terms of funding such important areas of society as health care, such as education or agriculture, with an outrageous example of what is happening in the National Water Farm of Poland, which was supposed to serve today to correct these shortages in terms of water and aid to farmers. But a few reflections of a general nature at the beginning in this short time to present our position. The first issue is inflation. On average, in 2019 consumer goods and services prices were 2,3% higher than the year before. And here it is best to reach the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber that the inflation target has been formulated so that it can be demonstrated that it is achieved even if inflation is temporarily outside the defined range of deviations from the target. The Monetary Policy Council assumed that, referring to the medium-term perspective of achieving the goal, it would build credibility of the National Bank of Poland. It also states that the Council did not define the term used for the medium period to which the inflation target was intended, considering that this was undesirable. In short, in 2019 it was juggled with definitions and time ranges to measure inflation in order to statistically lower it. You can also ask publicly: If inflation has only increased by 2.3%, then why do Poles and Poles feel in their wallets, making purchases, making a much bigger increase in spending? As far as the government's creative accounting is concerned, which is reflected in the 2019 budget, there are programs such as 100 bypasses, the PKS programme, the patriotic programme, all the funds of Prime Minister Morawiecki. In 2019, before the parliamentary elections, the government had just announced the creation of a fund of 100 bypasses, modernization of hospitals, investment in the school, the Rail+, the renovation fund from which 150 stations were to be financed. Previously, the rulers announced the mobilisation of funds: audiovisual, local roads and the development of bus journeys. Special funds intended to serve a particular cause shall not be used properly. This is very clear from the Supreme Audit Chamber's analysis of the implementation of the budget, which shows how the authorities are currently working on creative accounting and obscuring the picture of our country's finances. A few examples. The Solidarity Fund pays its thirteenth pension and was intended to serve people with disabilities, and we have talked about this in this House many times. Reprivatisation Fund, which is only 9.2% covered the costs of compensation for lost property, for which it was created, and in 90% was used by the authorities to take shares and shares in companies, for nearly 1.5 billion. Fund - Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers, which allocated 1/10, 100 million PLN, representing as much as 55% total costs to finance IT-related tasks. The latest example is a tourist voucher for every child. It is another good initiative, the cost of which, 4 billion PLN, was thrown into the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund at the Moravian Prime Minister. He raises money for this by issuing bonds, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Supreme Audit Chamber notes that, in addition to the increase in the number of these funds in recent years, there is also a tendency to extend the statutory scope of financial tasks from State-owned special-purpose funds to tasks not related to the objectives for which these funds have been created. This way of using special funds also means changing the way in which public tasks are financed, and that is a cloud of the problem if we evaluate the 2019 budget. The point is that expenditure is made outside the revenue and expenditure account, without increasing the government deficit, and this is clearly indicated in its opinion by the Supreme Audit Chamber. But not to base it either. in political opinions, I will quote the words of Mr Sławomir Dudek, a longtime director of the Department of Macroeconomics in the Ministry of Finance, currently the chief economist of Polish Employers, who is of the same opinion and who claims that this is what happened to the myths about the state of public finances. First, this myth of supposedly balanced budget fell. Now it turns out that the fiscal situation in Poland 2019 was only seemingly very good. Why? As he explains, the best proof of Poland's financial problems is structural deficit. This is a deficit that does not take account of these above average revenues resulting from very good economics or one-off revenues. According to the European Commission's estimates, this structural deficit was 2,7% in Poland in 2019. GDP. The European Union average is 1.1% So we're almost two and a half times the average. We are in the top five countries with the highest structural deficit, based on the evaluation of the 2019 budget. The situation of the budget is well defined by the EU so-called. expenditure benchmark, a kind of expenditure rule, i.e. the reference rate of increase in expenditure guaranteeing the sustainability of public finances. This reference rate of expenditure growth is based on an objective EU methodology and is immune to creative accounting and the transfer of expenditure to non-budget funds. And according to the economist, according to the EU spending benchmark, expenditure of the whole public finance sector in 2019 should increase by 4.2%. What about reality? Year by year, assessing the whole sector, these expenditures have increased more than twice as fast, i.e. About 10%. This means exceeding the expenditure benchmark by more than PLN 40 billion. These are hard numbers. When it comes to VAT sealing already indicated by the previous speakers, it is also worth referring to numbers. The revenue of PLN 113.5 billion in the backlog of PLN 21 billion in value added tax for goods and services in 2013 - is the data of the Ministry of Finance, which later, on 26 February 2020, refers to in its article "Rzeczpospolita', comparing them with data from 2019. In 2019 the revenues amounted to PLN 183.2 billion with nearly PLN 93 billion of unpaid VAT. What does that mean? This means that in 2013 only 15.5% was not downloaded. VAT and close to 34% in 2019 VAT. It wasn't downloaded. It is also worth considering when you shout from this speaker about how you have overcome the VAT gap. It is also difficult not to refer to the figures as regards the expenses of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Between 2011 and 2015, it is 640 million PLN, in 2015 and 2019 twice as much. This is brutal data. The last thing I'm gonna pay attention to, Mr. Marshal. Your marshal. Marshal, I'm so sorry. It's changing so fast today. Although the government saves money on education, the teachers have the results. NIK implements, [[♪ The bell ♪]] examines the state budget in terms of education. The Supreme Audit Chamber sent an analysis to the Sejm, which makes it clear that expenditure on education and education in 2015 represented 15.3% of all expenditure, while in 2019. - Just 10.7%. It's something he's calling for revenge to heaven. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u211	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! I think these are the most important things, actually the Sejm might not be sitting on other days, but today the hall and galleries should be full, because virtual piles of money are coming through this room. But there aren't many members of the Confederacy. There's half the club, and the gallery's closed. I'm not gonna talk about anything. I'm going to talk about defense as a member of the National Defence Committee. I will tell you how these things are dealt with at the committee's meeting dedicated to the discharge of expenditure in this area. Minister Macierewicz comes to the committee meeting and talks loudly enough so that I can hear it, President Jacha, who was just sitting here - Mr Jach, Major of the People's Army of Poland, understands the duty of his service - he asks how long it will take. Chairman Jach answers: an hour. And Vice-President Kownacki bid higher, better and says: half an hour. Then there are inconvenient questions from Members of the opposition, but the thing is pushed through with its knee. Ladies and gentlemen, the repairman in the greenery is getting longer and more careful. [[Applause]] It's a plus minus 40 billion zlotys, isn't it? We want there to be more, we would advise that we agree with the sky of the army and other core services for the existence of the state. It is about 40 billion PLN. The rapporteur reminded us of this 2% level GDP, but it doesn't reflect reality. Let's compare it to the budget. That's a plus minus every tenth of a dollar that the government spends. And it's with the knee to push, to vote that not only should there be no answers, but also - no questions? It is characteristic of the work of the defence committee, that by voting it is determined that the committee does not want to know anything, e.g. About the contract for American airplanes. There was a vote and a notabene agreement above the troughs. The majority of PiS-owska voted, but his three cents, holding back, added - since I mentioned the minister here, I will also mention his name - Minister Siemoniak. This is a disgrace. Your shields are, I suppose, FOZZ 2.0 turbo plus. From what you did in the first months, quarters of this year, Poland, if we survive everything, will heal for generations. What about defense expenses at all? Ladies and gentlemen, I declare parliamentary control over budgetary expenditure to be fiction. Yes, sir. It's a complete fiction. [[Applause]] Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It came to me today, on behalf of the club, to talk about two very important areas of public life, namely the state defence sphere mentioned by Mr Braun, and the second - state security within the sphere of competence of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, which was extended to the issue of the functioning of the NPRM. With regard to the amount of about 70 billion, which these two spaces fill, we can say this: it was a good year for Poland. It was the year in which Polish security increased, and in the internal edition, and in the external edition, it was about securing, as well as feeling the security of citizens. Of course, you can talk about matters that concern procedures. Here the most important aspect is how Poles take what Parliament and the parliamentary majority are doing with the government. And in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, it is not trivial and irrelevant how it is judged by the citizens. The spending of more than PLN 24 billion on state services: Police, State Fire Department, CBA, border services, is an exact expression of the fact that these funds are placed very well. Of course, we do not yet have the standards we are all talking about here in this Chamber. We would like to have the same salaries as those in the West, the same wages as those in the West. We're going for it, we're talking about it, we're going to shorten this distance, but this is a process. For this reason, spending in these spheres is really well done, courageously. This is also about replaying - this is a state after the former coalition, I will remind you - those decommissioned police stations that were, disappeared and are only now being played. Jesus. Doesn't it affect the safety of Poles? Of course I do. That's what you had to do. You had to recreate it. Mrs. Member! I was gonna say it at the end, but I'm gonna say it now. You spoke on behalf of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club: we have given you power. Who gave up power? It was the citizens in Poland who chose Law and Justice, they wanted it to continue to rule. Of course, what we hear here about the Law and Justice Club, when you enter this speaker, makes it seem like it's a different country at all. Everything is hopeless, everything is as if in another dimension. Then why, if it was so perfect, did the Poles thank you? That's the basic question. Ladies and gentlemen, funds are also very important in this area and these funds are also well used. As regards the modernisation fund and uniformed services, very good investments were made, 2.8 billion PLN was used entirely in really short time. The armoring is visible, it is visible with the naked eye. Ladies and gentlemen, somebody used to laugh, some years ago, about how it was hard to catch up with polonaise, for example. Porsche. Today, there is no problem with safety being provided in such a dimension, because this sphere is complemented very, very quickly. The other funds that are relevant to the State - those funds - the central reserves are 12. They also play an important role in improving the functioning of the state, but also provide funding for a sphere such as the Polish Charter, additional training of civil servants, assistance for the Roma population, assistance for repatriates, emergency notifications - a very important thing for the safety of the Polish citizen - as well as supplementing SOP expenditure, so-called. Minister Stasiak's security programme, as well as the question of supplementing personal evidence expenditure. These are funds that occur within this very important element, as I said, ensuring and improving the security of the Polish state. As for, ladies and gentlemen, KPRM - there was talk of increased expenditure. If there are increased tasks, there are also increased expenses. But are these funds well spent? We always talk about moving away from accounting budgets and talking about task budgets. And that's what you were talking about, President Banas, to do it in this dimension. Let's do our jobs and do our jobs. KPRM performed these tasks very well. And what I heard, and I took part in the committee's work - you really need to look very closely to see the minimum errors that are scored. They are really small, at this scale, 70 billion PLN, small expenditure. Now a few sentences about MON and spending last year. 44 billion PLN, huge money for the development of the Polish army, for additions. Everything was done at a very good pace. There have often been allegations in the past that the MON is not using financial resources. Now he's using them almost 100%. Huge words of appreciation, because it's a very big effort. We have also heard criticism here that certain things are not done on time. Ladies and gentlemen, with such amounts, there are opportunities to move something, because these are not simple investments, investments in Poland. I hope that President Kowalczyk will say something about the fact that nothing is being built in Poland. He's probably gonna tell you at the end of the story about not building anything. Everywhere we talk about increasing security, we increase security, as I said, internal security, we also increase the number of officers, soldiers, we increase the number - and this is a huge credit, now visible in the disasters that affect Poland - the new formation built all the time, often by the ridiculed opposition, WOT, which really works, serves and brings concrete help to Poles, not declarative, but concrete. Ladies and gentlemen, the words that can really be addressed to the Minister and the management of the MON are words about the fact that this is a good job, a good job. Also a very important aspect is the fulfilment of our NATO commitments. 2% we lay down, we are in the avant-garde of those who contribute to our joint spending of funds to ensure the safety of Poland. That's what we're doing, too. We're increasing supplies, reconstructing supplies that need to be created. Almost 100%. Without fractions, there's been increased resources, war supplies... The helmets are missing. ...what's needed. And this is obviously done to a very large extent. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, because my time is running out, and yet my colleagues are also due to say a few sentences in relation to these two huge sections that affect the functioning of the State, the management of the State and the State's security, we are very highly assessing this. And at the hands of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister for National Defence, I thank you for the very good implementation of this budget, assessed very well by the NIK and, most importantly, you, well rated by Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u214	Thank you. In the procedure of correcting Mr Braun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u215	Mr Sipiera asked me to mention my name... Your marshal, me too. ...so I'm using this mode to tell the president... No, I'm sorry. There was supposed to be a corrigendum, sir. ...don't bother... I am simplifying the wrong impressions that you are making here that everything is okay. This is a crime, ladies and gentlemen. Nobody's reports are read at all by the committee. They were thrown into the trash in practice. Mr. President knows best how much one check costs. And in terms of the defensive expenses of those checks in the past year, the reports that went to the basket, it was... I think that together there was about a dozen plus minus in total, and most of it, most of it, certainly didn't get under discussion at all. There was no subcommittee for budget and defence finance. The criminal - was not convened at all, but the President, Major of the People's Army of Poland, took out a positive opinion from behind the bell. Thank you very much, sir. Crime and disgrace.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u216	Thank you very much. Corrigendum. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, as corrected. Correcting misconceptions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u217	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Speaker! You misunderstood my words. I didn't say we gave you the power. I said: at the time when we gave you the economy - you will recreate it - later saying that it was then that, unfortunately, corruption increased in Poland, which is a fact. And when it comes to building, sir, you've finished a few things that we've started. It was hard not to finish, but for example. A little bit of A1 Highway... Yeah, when everything was ready, all you had to do was let the company in. But what happened to you on A1? I drive between Czestochowa and Warsaw, listen, 5 years on such a narrow road, it is extremely dangerous, because if you don't let something happen to someone, it's just not at all There's nothing you can do, no hallway of life or anything. You are building section A1 between Piotrków and Czestochowa for 5 years. Are you saying that this is an investment, that this is how you want to build this great Poland? Well, really... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u219	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of the presidents! Mr Kowalczyk, until recently the Minister, has highlighted the importance of the relationship between tax revenues and GDP. Oh, that's important. In this context, it is therefore worth saying that in 2019 this relationship clearly deteriorated. And a splash! Compared to 2018, tax revenues in relation to GDP are 0.3% lower. This is a very disturbing signal. Incidentally, you did not reach the pre-crisis level of 2008, essentially before the crises that hit Poland during our reigns, because it is about the crisis in 2008 and the crisis in the euro area in 2012. In 2008, this figure was 17.1%. , in 2019 - 16,2%. And in the years 2013, 2014, 2015? If I use your bill, $25 billion is missing from the budget. Let me remind you again: two crises in our time of government. But it has to be admitted that, in your rule, this relationship has improved over the period 2016/2018, and in 2019 we already have a decline. Where did this increase and improvement in relations come from? First of all, because you introduced new taxes, that taxation was increasing, e.g. PIT... From 18 to 17. ...when you have not increased the amount of free, the cost of obtaining. Only in October 2019 did this change. The thresholds haven't changed, practically. The effective tax rate has increased very clearly. If you look at it in terms of tax revenue, it is not without significance that in a good economic situation employment is growing, and wages are also growing. I can say that to some extent this relationship was certainly improving thanks to the sealing of the tax system - now I am talking about the years 2016 and 2018 - largely thanks to the application of the JPK, a solution introduced by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] That's new. Facts. But this relationship has improved to a good cause mainly due to the good economic situation. But now for VAT on this... Cyclicity of VAT. ...that you want it so badly and provoke me. The decline in this relationship, the deterioration in this relationship in 2019, is mainly due to VAT. Which you had no influence on. The increase in VAT revenue in 2019 amounts to 3,4% and it is lower than GDP growth - 4.1%. He is also lower than the increase in consumption despite the actions you have taken theoretically. They were supposed to improve this relationship. The question arises as to whether it was an apparent action, whether it was meant to actually only increase spending limits and avoid a stabilizing expenditure rule, because you added it as a discretionary action. But I'll remind you what you said about this situation: lower than GDP growth, lower than consumption growth in income growth. This is proof of the inability of the rulers, the lack of real sealing actions, the poor functioning of the tax administration. Here the flower for the goat - 105 billion is tax arrears at the end of 2019. [[Applause]] 105 billion - that's what tax arrears are. Scandal! That's not enough, I'm quoting now what you've been saying, it's robbing the state, allowing it to be robbed... Privatisation of expenses. ...or even a part of this robbery. The Mafia at the Ministry of Finance is, I guess, just proof of that. [[Applause]] It is surprising - I spoke about it at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance - that so far Mr Marcin Horała, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Mr Wojciech Murdzek, outstanding experts in the field of VAT, have not reported to the prosecutor's office or that the Attorney General has not taken an interest in this situation, has not initiated proceedings in this case. Your story about sealing the tax system is just going through a very serious test. There will be revenge for shortcomings and omissions when it comes to sealing. Propaganda. For example, I will remind you of the online invoice register, not the museum of invoices that you built on the basis of the JPK. Few of this, inefficient IT or IT system, which is currently sitting at the Ministry of Finance, does not allow full use of what you have. In addition, there is an absolute dismantling of the tax control. Unfortunately, this could get revenge. It may turn out in a moment that you will have to apologize to Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and all the finance ministers from the time of our government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Due to the circumstances, I will only make a brief statement on the granting of guarantees and loans by the State Treasury. The budget limit for 2019 amounted to PLN 200 billion, was used at PLN 6329 million, i.e. 3.4% this amount, and the liabilities that did not have to happen and occurred, amounted to PLN 111 billion 400 million this year. Together, this public debt did not exceed 3/5 of the gross annual value of the product. And let me put it in a commentary that it's a good thing, because this money will be used and used this year to fight the koravirus and improve the value, the economic situation, because the unused funds from last year and the public debt in total give this opportunity. This is an opportunity for the government, but also for all entrepreneurs. For this reason, the parliamentary club of the Left has no negative comments on the assessment of this area of the 2019 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u223	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about the budget for the previous year. It was a budget in which the lowest national was PLN 2250, where the various social programmes that you introduced were already running, which, of course, affected our society, did not pay full attention to the fact that this would result in enormous inflation. This inflation, of course, is coming to our society right now, and we're all going to have to pay for it. But then you're gonna produce more social programs that you're gonna put on people and print out money that won't have any value, but then they're gonna give you some political profits. Unfortunately, these are sham actions. You lower your income tax by 1 percentage point, while increasing the lowest national tax, which means making employers pay more and raise prices to make up for it. By the way, the national average is increasing, which is a total fraud. The lie is that she is as much as she is, and we all know that very well. By the way, the ZUS also grows for the employer, who is an independent businessman. We all know that. You're a great cheater. On the other hand, I just wanted to tell you about the teachers. That's 530,000. people, the largest professional group in Poland. At this point, we have a situation that thanks to your policy, the only increases that teachers receive are increases due to the fact that the lowest national level is growing. At this point, you're still trying to freeze them for next year. I think it's a scandal. I hope it doesn't come to that. We're gonna fight this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u225	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Gentlemen of the presidents! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to continue this story about the 2019 budget because it was a very good budget. What I am going to talk about is the issues that have been neglected by the Civic Platform. You didn't, and that's what I'm gonna focus on in my speech. Well, that's the first thing. Very briefly ad vocem earlier statements by Members of the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you talking about? If you're questioning the obvious facts about the tax system's sealing, let's look at the numbers. If you do not look at the disposable income for one person in the household that has grown, then how can you question authentic, factual information in this regard. For us, as parliamentarians of Law and Justice, the issue of implementing our announcements in the social programmes remained very important in the implementation of the budget in 2019. These programmes concerned social policy and family policy. But it would not have been possible to implement these schemes if it had not been for the sealing of the tax system, including in particular the VAT system. And from this point on, I would like to thank all officials, officials, employees and National Tax Administrations, and special services, and other institutions such as the Police, who carry out their duties carefully every day. Their work has a very tangible effect, good for every citizen regardless of political views. In 2019 budgetary revenue amounted for the first time to over PLN 400 billion. Let's take a look at what it's been like in previous years. Year by year there were higher revenues, budget revenues, by PLN 46 billion compared to 2018. But if we look at 2016 - I don't want to be malicious, so I'm not going to compare this revenue this time to the revenue of 2015, when you lost power - it turns out that this budget revenue was less than PLN 124 billion compared to 2019. That's the point. increase efficiency in the enforcement of taxes, debts, and equalise the opportunities of every citizen and every entrepreneur. Because in a free market, anyone can act on the same principles. There is no equal and equal as in the times of the Civic Platform, when the fuel mob was really doing very well, and I'm about to tell you exactly that. This increase in revenue to the state budget is also the result of the introduction of mechanisms such as STIR, SENT or a single control file. The effect of these specific actions is to reduce the tax gap from 24% in 2015 to 12% in 2019 These are facts and I am glad that you will not deny these facts. But if we look at what Mrs Leszczyn said... There you go. There was an increase in the legal sale of diesel in 2019, increased by 36% compared to 2015. The increase in legal sales of motor gasoline by 25% compared to 2015. The gray zone in the case of alcohol sales has decreased more than twice over the last two years. The gray area for tobacco products decreased from 16%, almost 17% in 2015 to 8,5% last year. These are facts that show that this budget has been very well prepared and even better implemented. If we are talking about social policy issues, let's look at the labour market. At the end of the year the unemployment rate was 5.2% and compared to the end of 2015 this was a 46% decrease. If we look at a reduction in the number of long-term unemployed, long-term unemployed, we have a drop of 65% compared to 2015. Let's look at the number of people working, and this is related to the demographic issue, the issue of the Social Insurance Fund, which I will also mention in a moment. The number of people employed in 2019 amounted to 16 900 000. people and this was an increase compared to 2015 by 2100 thousand. persons. The minimum wage, the Member just said so, in 2019 the minimum salary increased to PLN 2250, this year already amounted to PLN 2600. What was the key? There was no minimum hourly rate in 2015. Right? Right. In 2019 this hourly rate was PLN 14.70. If we look at issues related to the payment of unemployment benefits, 146 thousand were paid. The benefits, that's $5,000. less than in 2018. Average employment in the national economy increased by 2.7% , average wage increase of 6.5%. Focusing on social policy, on family policy, we need to emphasise more than twice the growth compared to 2015, which is allocated from the state budget to family policy. It's also a program that I'm particularly close to, which I'm going to defend as independence, it's about the 500+ family programme. Finally, we have a universal, sustainable programme of family policy, which is a direct programme. Since 1 July 2019, High Izbo, there has been an extension of the entitlement of the 500+ family to each child in the family, regardless of the income criterion. We can say that from that moment on this program was 100% common. When we talk about the 13th pension issue, 2019 was the first year when pensioners and pensioners received their 13th pension, and we agree, as a parliamentary majority, that the objective of the state is to fulfil constitutional obligations. This is the path of a solidarity state, a country that ensures equal opportunities. Thus, 2019 was a very good year for the family, for seniors, for people with disabilities, where this real support was increased. [[Applause]] When I talk about the obligation to ensure financial security for citizens, I would like to mention that support for people with disabilities was proposed in 2019 - in January 2019 the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was launched, aimed at social, professional, health and financial support for people with disabilities. If we are talking about the 500+ family programme, High Izbo, last year was a record year because the state invested directly in Polish families 31 billion PLN. It was more money if we compare it to 2018. And I have very good news for Polish families, because 2020 will have even better results in this regard. If we are talking about the issue of the 500+ family programme, we must mention that at the end of 2019 the support in the form of education was covered by 6400 000. children in Poland. If we are talking about retirement+, it is worth recalling here that in May 2019 pensioners and pensioners received PLN 1100 and it was a proposal of additional support dedicated to almost 10 million Poles. Of course, we can talk about additional programmes, such as the 'Senior+', with a budget of 80 million in 2019. These are also very important changes from the point of view of families of many children. I am referring, for example, to a change in the Big Family Charter, which last year was extended to all parents who had at least three children to support. This is a matter of very real support from the state. We are also talking about the issue related to the increase in pension benefits about the statutory rate of valorization, not less than 70 PLN. This is also the consistent implementation by law and justice of responsible support for pensioners and pensioners. If we are talking, High Izbo, about the very good situation in the labour market, I would like to mention the issue of the Social Insurance Fund, because it is a question of the future. I will not get into how this fund was built, what is the legacy after years of communism, but we can reach out to the Social Insurance Fund, tell you what this fund looked like in 2019. The favourable situation on the labour market, the increase in wages and employment, has contributed to achieving higher than planned contributions from the fund. If we are talking about this Social Insurance Fund, it is worth mentioning that the share of contributions in relation to expenditure has been very positive - 80.7% has been exceeded. As far as the main revenue position of the FUS in 2019 is concerned, it constituted social security contributions amounting to PLN 198 billion. It is also worth noting the FUS contribution collection rate in 2019, which amounted to 99,3%, and this was another improvement of this collection rate. As a result, the grant from the state budget was lower by PLN 9.5 billion than planned. High Izbo! Really in 2019, when it comes to social policy, family policy, we can, we should say this beyond divisions, that it was a very good year for Polish families, Polish seniors and it was tangible support for people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u226	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u227	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The state budget is not only finance, it is also stimulation and support for specific areas. Today, when we evaluate the implementation of the 2019 budget, we need to answer a very important question: Has the expenditure achieved its objectives? And unfortunately, the answer is not optimistic. In too many places the announcements of the PiS failed, and in fact the 2019 budget was a budget of really great failures and a demonstration of the inadequacies of the Government of Law and Justice. And now the facts. First of all, the flagship program of the government of PiS This program was intended to secure the housing needs of Poles. 2019 is the year in which we evaluate this. After four years of rule of law and justice, he should walk like a watch, and dwellings should come down like a proverbial tape. But as part of the whole housing program, PiS built only 867 apartments for 3 years until August 2019. By June 2020, this number increased to 909 apartments, or 42 apartments for 10 months. This gives you a dizzying speed of less than 250 apartments per year and means, note that the PiS will build the promised 100,000. Apartments are only 397 years old. A really beautiful concept of success - it is not known whether to laugh or cry. But let's move on. The entire Housing Payment Fund was cut by half in a year by the PiS - from 281 million to 149 million, and - attention - most of it absorbed the programs of previous governments. The PiS flagship programme was issued in 2019 - note - 328 thousand. zł. In a 38 million-dollar country, a country that has one of the biggest housing problems, 328 000 have been issued from the flagship programme of Law and Justice. zł. This is a disaster, this is a disaster. When you look at the 2019 budget implementation report, you can see that the housing policy of Law and Justice simply does not exist. Those great announcements about the program of living+. The solution to housing problems was a great drink on water and ordinary propaganda. Question: "Does this offer of Law and Justice have for young people?" Another program - Bus Transport Development Fund, popular PKS. We all recall the noisy announcements of reconnecting, even Mr Kowalczyk was just bragging that this is such an excellent programme, well implemented. Here we go. For 2019, out of 300 million PLN was used - attention - 17 million, or 5.7%. President Kowalczyk, you have a sense of success, don't you? Moreover, in August, it was known that this program did not work, that we put on such ready solutions, that the Government of Law and Justice did not earn anything at all. Moreover, by 2019 he liquidated in the best PKS in Częstochowa. It's hard to get better proof of hypocrisy. The question is whether this hypocrisy is a PiS offer for the inhabitants of smaller towns and places where there are white spots, because it is difficult to make a different conclusion. The last thing. In fact, in 2019, the Commission concluded that the measures in question Poland met the 2% target GDP for national defense? According to the data presented, almost PLN 1.4 billion was produced from this section during the year - this is a very large amount. Moreover, 21 billion PLN are advances for future deliveries. It shows that the PiS government fakes the army's modernization activities. The army hasn't moved on, and it's outrageous. But it's good for the basic national interest. And again the question, ladies and gentlemen, is this bullshit about modernising the army is a PiS offer for the army. And finally: Margaret Thatcher once said that money doesn't fall from the sky, but it's hard to earn. This report from the 2019 budget shows that the PiS in an outrageous way and absolutely inefficiently wasted hard-earned money earned by Poles. It's the most outrageous thing about all of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u228	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u229	Mrs. Marshalkini! Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 of the Constitution states that the value of Polish money is borne by the National Bank of Poland, on whose report I will lean on behalf of the club Leży. I'd like a presentation, please. Data is displayed on the tables. We now have the highest inflation in Poland throughout the European Union. You can see there - in red - is Poland. In June it amounted to 3.8% , where average inflation in the Union is only 0.8%. About 10% house maintenance costs in Poland increased by 30% of the price of vegetables and fruit, by 40% of the bank service. We also have the highest base inflation in 19 years, the one that does not take into account energy and food prices. At the moment, an inflation target of 2,5% is being exceeded. I'll have another graphic, please. That price increase doesn't explain the COVID pandemic... You see, at the top there is an increase in inflation in Poland, at the bottom there is a fall in inflation in the European Union. This increase in prices does not explain either the COVID pandemic or last year's slowdown in the global economy. COVID and the slowdown affected the whole of Europe, but in Poland prices are rising rapidly. There is no justification for such high inflation in the NBP activity report that we are dealing with today. Indeed, the high NBP's financial result, the actual economic situation of last year's economy, the actual trade surplus, the positive current account balance, increasing consumption, low unemployment - all of these factors described in the report do not give rise to the current financial crisis and rapidly rising prices. At the end of 2019 the first symptoms of the real causes of today's Polish problems, government negligence, and not the National Bank of Poland appeared. The increase in fruit prices as a result of the lack of compensation for drought, the decline in investment dynamics, in particular the slowdown of local investment, mainly due to the dramatic shortage of education subsidies due to local governments from the state budget. The COVID Pandemic and its economic effects this year have only sharpened the consequences of government negligence. Current inflation is a cumulative effect of decoupling local governments with the excessive fiscal burden on Polish entrepreneurs, Polish craftsmen and Polish farmers. On the currently sold bonds for PLN 100 billion more, it seems that commercial banks are used than those to which this aid is to be addressed, i.e. local governments and entrepreneurs. In March 2020, the Council adopted National Bank of Poland decided without precedent in the history of Polish banking: interest rates were reduced, minimum reserves were reduced, open market operations and quantitative relaxation were introduced. However, this did not stop the galloping prices. The NBP should legally guard Polish finances and the Polish economy, regardless of the more or less hit ideas of subsequent governments. Today, this inflation, this price increase in Poland is an example of what happens when the National Bank of Poland becomes not a guardian, but a tool of the government, a subordinate contractor of orders and archaic ideas about the economy of one private Member, a Member who privately does not even have a personal bank account. (BELL RINGING) The European Union's assistance brought by Prime Minister Morawiecki shows that the European Union is solidarity with Polish problems. Let's hope that the government of this aid will not throw away, that it will finally reach economic operators, social organizations, local governments and also Polish teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! The fact that we are to debate the implementation of the budget, the summary of the NBP's annual work, the activities of BGK in a joint debate, where all these topics are mixed up and we have a few minutes to discuss them, shows how incredibly this subject is treated by the Sejm's management. This, of course, should be organized completely differently. In my speech, I will focus on the NBP, and since I have thirty seconds, I would like to point out that, as for the huge cost of the NBP's own - let us remind you that the report shows that this institution employs 3,300 officials, last year employment increased by 32 new jobs - its financial statements are extremely non-transparent. Administrative costs - 264 million - are set out in seven items. Salary costs - more than 0.5 billion - are divided into four items. If we watched the general reports of all the institutions in the country (the bell), no one would know what the public money was going for. I'm calling for transparency in the BNP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition. Excuse me, Mr Robert Telus. Excuse me, sir. Exactly. I'm already scared that your marshal has crossed me out. No, don't be afraid. You were hidden behind the monitor. I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u233	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I have to say a few words about the budget, about the implementation of the 2019 budget in the field of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! Here we hear many criticisms from Members of the Civic Platform and the opposition, but it was one of the best budgets and one of the best budget executions, one can say, in free Poland as regards the amount and social programs, programmes for Poles, but also programmes in the field of agriculture. In the area of agriculture, this is one of the highest amounts that have been so far. Nearly PLN 50 billion was allocated in the plan. With the drought payment this year, it was over PLN 50 billion. This amount has never been allocated to agriculture so far. Over PLN 50 billion. It was made of 99.3%. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you hear that it was a bad budget, that it was small amounts, it's a man who doesn't know if we're talking about the same budget at all. Because if we are talking about the 2019 budget, it was, as I said, the largest amount allocated to Polish agriculture so far. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you about the income, because it's very important. We made revenue on the plan in the area of agriculture in 693% and 693%. First of all, these are dividends from state-owned companies. These dividends have increased so much that they have led to so much revenue growth in the agricultural budget. But it's also a matter of real estate management by KOWR right now. I'm talking about leases. That's how the lease revenue went up. This means that farmers are paid to lease and pay rent, which brings so much profit, revenue to our budget. Ladies and gentlemen! What else was the aid granted to farmers, what were the benefits to farmers from this budget? First of all, it's about fuel, excise duty on fuel. Here also a record amount - 1119 thousand. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a record-breaking aid for fuel, a refund of excise duty. But farmers say one thing. Of course, the aid issue, which I will talk about again, because I will also talk about drought aid, the fight against ASF, the issue of excise payments - all this is important. But first of all, we need to ensure that our product, the Polish product, the Polish farmer has a brand to pay well. All our activities, from the very beginning, when we took responsibility for Poland, i.e. since 2015, are moving towards strengthening the brand of the Polish product. And this product, ladies and gentlemen, the brand of this product already in Europe... The point is that with this brand in Europe they matter very much, this brand already has its position and that is the most important one. Dear country, because the Polish farmer will be happy if his work is rewarded by his product, a good product, because we know that the quality of our products is very good. Therefore, among others. e.g. We have introduced the "Polish Product" mark, although so far we have been told that the Union does not allow such marks to be introduced. We introduced this sign so that Poles who buy, consumers from cities who spend their money on food, know that they buy Polish, good. The so-called last action. The elite, which now reveals itself after the elections in Poland, is a scandal, a great scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that here in this room everyone should come out and say that they are buying Polish products, because this is strengthening the Polish farmer, that is strengthening our economy. I don't think there should be any difference between us when we're talking about strengthening our product. Not some scandalous action: don't buy from a Polish farmer. This is an outrage, and we should all be here, from this speaker, in the Seym strongly criticize. Ladies and gentlemen! Those aren't just words. As far as our exports are concerned, it has increased by almost PLN 10 billion. At this point, our exports are EUR 34 billion. 34 billion euro is the export of Polish products. This shows that the brand of our products is just so strong. There was an increase in exports by 41% if we compare 2015 with 2019. 41%. This is, ladies and gentlemen, this is the way we should go in this direction. The idea is to strengthen our brand to strengthen Polish farmers so that they can sell our products, good quality products, because they are what I have already mentioned. I was also talking about state aid. State aid must be in situations that are tragic, as is drought. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about historical drought aid in 2018. There hasn't been that kind of help so far. This is the greatest aid in Europe, my dear country. Not only here, in Poland, but the biggest aid in Europe. In 2018 - PLN 2215 million, in 2019. - over PLN 2,300 million. Ladies and gentlemen, such help. Just yesterday, at the meeting of the finance committee, changes were accepted which would allow for the payment of this residue, the remaining funds of PLN 400 million, which had not yet been paid, because the European Commission prohibited payment, and this money is. There are already changes and the money will be paid. And here I want to tell all farmers who are waiting for this, that drought aid for 2019 will be paid to all farmers who had estimated losses on the farm. Next thing. It's been said less today, ladies and gentlemen. There's less talk about the ASF case. And why is there less talk? Because the actions we've taken, the measures we've committed to fighting the ASF, are working. And we have to talk about it, we have to show it, because the opposition stopped talking about it today. And how loud you screamed. Instead of helping, you were screaming about ASF. That's what we do, we go in the right direction, and that's what's important. Dear country, 192 million zlotys were allocated to fight against ASF in 2019 alone. That's the kind of help you've ever had in your reign. I recall 16 million PLN in 2014, 2015. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen, that's the difference. As you ruled, you boasted of a great help in the amount of PLN 16 million. This is PLN 192 million from the RDP itself. There were three fires, sir. Three outbreaks in 2015 If the Member says there was no ASF, I will tell you that ASF came to Poland in 2014 and you could not help. You couldn't handle three fires, and today you're talking, yelling out loud that we can't handle it. It's obvious we've dealt with this problem. Ladies and gentlemen! But if we were just talking about helping things today, it wouldn't be enough. We also invest in young people. We raised the amount of aid, the grant to the young farmer to 150 thousand. We also provide more resources, much more money for schools. We take over agricultural schools because we know that profiled schools, vocational schools should be supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture. We are developing Polish agriculture, not folding, as you have done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're gonna make it fall.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Now please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u235	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kowalczyk said that my previous speaker had developed. He's developed in saying things that aren't true. Mr Telus! Listen to me. How much money did you pay under the drought aid? You only paid 30%, and the farmers for last year's drought have not yet received all the money. In May it was paid 30% drought aid measures, right? I have the documents from the Ministry of Agriculture. And don't lie to me, because lying is your general policy. The ASF case. Three fires and five years you had to fight it? Why didn't you get to work for five years? Your business card is the auction and the result of the horse stud in Janów Podlaski. This is your card for five years. For 5 years, but maybe until the last year, there is a matter of spending Polish Waters. You're trying to market capital when it's raining and the water can't go to the sewers? This is why you want to adopt this budget when Polish waters spend 78% on property expenditure , the rest is not, and for grants, the execution of 85% ? Why is there no investment of Polish Waters? Scandal! I'd like to say... All scandals... ...that family on their own or political family are among others. a programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure. Everything can be prepared, you can have a well-evaluated project. So? The Prime Minister can say: he can change, i.e. he can issue an individual order, as he wants now, to 70 million PLN for Sasin, to the so-called. An asshole. I'd like to tell you, because this project about each other... Some people don't even know they've been making projects and getting money. What are you guys great at? In advertising. And this ad is, among other things. from the Justice Fund, which has about 330 million PLN, 20 million PLN for the purchase of antenna time. Who advertises there? Zibro, prison, what, who else? Scandal! Instead of today's money, it's such a country... There was talk of a heart here today in this room. You don't have a heart. The president pardons a paedophile. Why? Because the family had nothing to live on. Then why are you giving so much money for public television? [[Applause]] But this public television is still getting... The National Council granted her 1100 million last year. And this year, we remember, almost 2 billion each year, that is 8 billion PLN. Aren't you ashamed that the area of poverty is growing and that you are giving Kursk - in a new marriage - an additional PLN 2 billion a year? And this new elite. This new elite is Marshal Kuchciński flying a plane or his wife. For 2 years, 4 million PLN has flown out and has not paid any money for these flights. He didn't. You're not talking about it. Maybe it's the minister who didn't... The President's Office was hired last year... So 13 additional jobs, and in 2018 there were 30 new jobs. So what do you say? The new elite doesn't count for costs. I asked about the costs of the first lady's operation. How appalled you were that we were asking that question. After all, this money isn't Mrs. Kornhauser-Dudy, it's public money. So we want to know how much money is spent on what and if Marshal Kuchciński is giving away the money. You advertise, you advertise, and I'd like to say... Who are we supposed to advertise? You? Sir, I want you to tell the truth, and don't play dumb. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oh... Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u236	Please, Mr Andrzej Costowniak... Here you go, Mr Telus, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! One sentence because I don't want anybody accusing me of lying. Mrs. Member! Check it out, just calmly, without telling a lie. 1900 million were paid for droughts and 2,300 million were paid for payments. So there's 400 million missing, 450 million unpaid. That's not 30%. So that what you said when you accused me of lying... I wish it were... Of course. ...so that we understand each other, because 1900 million is paid, 1900 million for 2019, and 2300 million is paid with pennies. Your marshal, I'm offended, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u238	Good. First Mrs. Skowronska, then you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u239	Mr Telus! Please don't be offended because I want peace in the courtroom. I'd like to say that you're missing the truth because this is about 2019. Yes. More was paid in May 2020. I'm telling you what's going on today. But in 2019 - that is not true. In May... I said, I remember, I'm responsible for the words, see the transcript. Yes. Last year, 30% was paid, despite the promise. That's right. Last year. By May, it was paid out within 60%. And it's only after May that the farmers are waiting for.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u240	Please, Mr Piotr Kaleta. And it's paid off. It wasn't paid out. And we explained it to each other. Don't tell me I'm lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs Skowronska! High Izbo! Someone once said beautifully that if you talk to a woman, talk about a woman or think about a woman, do it always as if you were speaking, talking or thinking about your own mother. My sleep. Mommy's gone, but there's still love for my mom and respect for women. Therefore, from this point of view, I appeal to the honourable Member, and I implore her to allow me to continue this respect for women with her conduct, with her speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's already outrageous.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Costowniak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Gentlemen of the presidents! Ladies and gentlemen! I have just a few minutes left to present a very important element of the state budget, i.e. the implementation of the budget of local government units. The positive assessment of the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 in respect of the implementation of the budget of local government units deserves: higher than the projected implementation of own budgets resulting in an increase in the share of these revenues in total income, an improvement in the collection of revenue from assets by JST, an increase in the revenue of JST for the implementation of programmes, projects or tasks included in total income, a decrease in the budget deficit of JST combined with a decrease in the number of JSTs whose deficit exceeds 10%. Negative phenomena were the increasing dependence of the own income of JST on participation in direct taxes - here I am thinking of PIT and CIT - a decrease in the share of property expenditure in total expenditure, an increase in the number of JSTs not fulfilling the relationship with the article. 243 Public Finance Act, increase in the number of JSTs requested by the Regional Audit Chamber to draw up recovery programmes, lower than expected accounts of expenditure related to the implementation of European programmes, projects or tasks. I will discuss the revenue of local government units in 2019. When analysing the budget of local government units in 2019, it should be pointed out that the implementation of total revenue of PLN 278.5 billion meant an increase compared to 2018, ladies and gentlemen, by 10.6%, which shows a stable upward trend for the budget of local government units. In general, this was an increase of 15.4% resulting from targeted grants in 2019 Ladies and gentlemen, this statement lies to those who say that the financial situation of local government units in 2019 has deteriorated significantly. The truth is that in the last 5 years the value of income growth from both PIT and CIT for local government units has increased from several to several dozen percent per year. It should be noted that 2019 was another year in which, from the point of view of the different types of local government, there was an increase in the importance of direct tax revenues, in the case of PITs - 41.3%, and in the case of CIT it is 8%. As in previous years, there is a significant variation in the importance of the relevant revenues between the different types of units. In assessing the level of revenue implementation, it should be noted that this was achieved at 99% in 2019 the amount of planned revenue, with an indicator of 101,2% for own revenue the amount of planned revenue. I will move on to the expenditure of local government units in 2019. In assessing the expenditure of the JST in 2019, it should be stressed that the implementation of this expenditure of 280,2 billion represents an increase of 8% compared to 2018. In 2019 there was a reversal of the situation in which the share of property expenditure in the structure of expenditure of the different types of JST was prevailing. Compared to 2018, current expenditure shares increased: from 79.6% Up to 81.8%. In contrast, the share of property expenditure decreased from 20,4 to 18,2%. I think this is a very important remark for all Polish local governments. On the other hand, in the current expenditure structure in 2019 the highest share was the remuneration together with the derivatives, which reached 39.2%. Overall, current expenditure in 2019 was 11% higher than implementation in 2019. These values show that this was another year of high growth in these expenditures. At the same time, it should be added that public funds have been transferred to local government units for these expenditures with very high dynamics, which we have not seen for many, many years. I will refer to the implementation of the budget and debt of local government units in 2019. In 2019 compared to 2018, the revenue generated by the municipalities was 11.3% higher and the expenditure in the municipalities was 6.4% higher. The counties made revenue in 2019 at a higher level of 9,8% , while their spending was 3.4% higher. It was similar in the case of voivodships. These values mean, ladies and gentlemen, that the situation of local government units is clearly stable. It is clear that in 2019 57.9% should be highlighted. local government units closed the budget with a budget surplus. In the case of a different situation, there was an increase in the number of JSTs which did not fulfil the relationship to Article at the same time compared to 2018. 243 Public Finance Act. In 2019 there were 32 of them, seven more than in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen! Literally one sentence or two sentences about even the investments discussed earlier. Many were spoken of even the roads. I'll mention the Self-Government Road Fund. It is a programme implemented from 2019 to 2028. I would like to remind you that in 2019 over 4489 million PLN was transferred to this programme, i.e. almost 4.5 billion PLN. Let me remind you that in previous years we have observed rather funding at the level of PLN 800.850 million. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen, in this program, about an increase of over 500%. Not five, not 55, not 155, but over 500%. I think we need to congratulate the Mazowieckie and Wielkopolska voivodships [[Applause]] high level of grants received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u245	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! There are so many words here. As far as agriculture is concerned, I think it is enough to say that in 2019 direct payments - the amount of direct payments to agriculture - have not affected contrary to your assurances. [[Applause]] They haven't moved at the moment, and after the Prime Minister's return from Brussels, we know that they won't move in the future either. So much for agriculture. [[Applause]] If you knew anything about it, we'd talk. Looking at the 2019 budget, one should ask the question: Is good implementation of the wrong budget good for Poland and its citizens? So what if the tables agree if you planned this budget badly? This budget needs to be looked at from the present perspective. Gentlemen, am I disturbing you? No, I have a divisive attention. Excuse me, sir. Keep going. Gentlemen, please calm down. From the perspective of today, this budget is gruesome. What should we talk about today? About debt. You say the debt is low. No. You in the 2019 budget are pushing debt outside the budget, except for the expenditure rule that you are putting up with this week to break the thermometer. You'll never have debt again. Let's take a look at what happened in 2019. The 13th pension was paid out of the Solidarity Fund, the one for the disabled. Reprivatisation fund more than 90% spent on shares and shares in companies. Then the dividends are high. My friend tells me it's too bad the election's over because I've been gasping and the fuel is more expensive again. The election campaign's over. Orlen's making money again. That's where the profits come from. That's how these huge dividends come into the budget. Because you milk Poles e.g. on fuel. [[Applause]] Prices are much higher than in the days of the PO. Uhm, it's a pity that it turned around and now Poles are going to Germany to fill up, not like it used to be, that the Germans were coming to Poland to fill up. Six zlotys each, how much? Uh, what about the fund? Central Vehicle and Driver Records? Not even half of it was spent for the purposes for which it was intended. You're putting a debt behind a debt somewhere outside the budget. Not to mention the Justice Fund. This is a scandal, almost 400 million PLN. Mrs Skowrońska spoke about this. The fund, which was primarily intended for victims of crimes, such victims of pedophilia as was pardoned by President Duda. Where's the money? Where's the money? They're spent on anything, just not on helping the victims of crime. You can't do that. This money is just wasted. And from this perspective, you owe Poland. The 16 countries of the European Union had a budgetary surplus in 2019 and you have reached one of the highest structural deficits in the European Union. It's only worse in Hungary and Romania, but you think the Hungarians are our friends. What's more, the markets notice it too. In 2019 debt service costs increased to 3%. And now the Prime Minister is coming back from Brussels and he's confused apples with pears. He's taking it together. In general I am terrified because it is after Gierku that there is the first guy who comes from the West and is glad that Poland is in debt. After all, most of this money is loans and loans, not donations from money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] European. [[Applause]] Not most of them. Why are you lying? Not most of them. From this perspective, it's scary. It's a gambling debt. Poles paid for over 40 years. There were empty shelves along the way, huge unemployment and painful transformation. Go ahead and finish. It would seem that the fiesta of Poles, which you organize, lasts and lasts. And that no one notices that the Titanic is drowning, and the orchestra continues to play if not for the fact that has not yet been noticed in this debate. It was in 2019 that we had as many as four finance ministers. Why is everyone running away from the ministry? Why in the Ministry of Finance... Go ahead and finish it, sir. ...there are people in vice-ministerial positions who have absolutely no experience at all? I'm asking for an ending. This indicates that what some people notice is that the state's finances are going down, and it's because of you. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request that the 2019 budget implementation report be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u246	Thank you. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk. About 1 minute and 15 seconds out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u247	Thank you very much, Marshal. It's only very short. Integrity of Members of the Civic Platform. Mrs Leszczyna - you have not built anything for your governments, I mean, of course, roads, highways. And you were at the National Stadium? 2016 - 137 km of national roads, express roads and motorways; 2017 - 356 km; 2018 - 321 km; 2019 - 460 km. Of course, in 2016, little, because there were unprepared investments, you left nothing behind. It's called nothing. So this is the truth of the Civic Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u248	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The budget, the implementation of the budget always gives an answer to what the tasks were, how they were carried out, what the objectives were. And if we take a fair look at the 2019 budget, it can be said that the objectives have been met. The measures that relate to the task budget have also been mostly implemented. And in this context, we have to say that it was a pro-development budget, a family budget. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure. Indeed, sustainable development, eliminating exclusion is an important element. And in this context, I would like you to tell the Minister of Infrastructure how much the district of polczycko-Sędziszowski in 2020 can hope that there will be no (Dzwonek) excluded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I wanted to ask you a question about the activity of last year's state farm of Polish Waters. It wasn't much said here. The Supreme Audit Board has assessed this activity negatively. And it was supposed to be so good. After all, this institution performs very important tasks. Unfortunately, last year factual effects they were unsatisfying. The destruction of flood effects in the State Treasury property was carried out in 10%, the flood risk task in 23%. It was visible in Podkarpacie how Polish waters work. And then there's the second line. Financial management by that institution. Negative assessment. The budget of more than PLN 4 billion, including State Treasury grants, is over PLN 2 billion. And reporting unreliable, [[♪ The bell ♪]] opaque, lack of credibility. What's next with this institution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u252	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left. There isn't. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, PSL - Kukiz15. There isn't. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the last five years, we've been keeping from overindebting ourselves. There has been no crisis in the last five years, and the previous government has survived the global financial crisis. The last five years have been good. In times of prosperity, what does a good host do, what did we appeal for? He's saving up. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. You weren't listening. And listen, what is the cumulative deficit of the PiS government? Not the hidden one, the official one. As I counted - well, it's not great math, it's simple summation - 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 give us a deficit, ladies and gentlemen, PLN 95.6 billion. This is all in a time of great economic prosperity. For this he bears the personal responsibility of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Now, look out. For 2020 [[♪ The bell ♪]] 100 billion deficits have been announced. And compare these two sizes. If it were to be saved, there would be no problem, we wouldn't have to worry today, Minister, about the state's finances, about the budget. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u254	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are many questions about expenditure and revenue, as well as many doubts as to whether these expenses and revenues are written creatively enough to match your indicators. But I'm gonna ask you about expenses that you can't hide. This is PLN 490 million for bonuses for ministers, heads of public institutions. These prizes are up to 70,000. zł per person. I repeat: PLN 490 million for my people. Therefore, I have a question: What is the reason for such generosity? Will you answer as much as Mrs. Szydło did that money belong to you? No, they don't belong to you. And in the face of tightening the belt by Poles and Poles it is an embarrassing gesture of greed and hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u256	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u257	Thank you very much, Marshal. It is a pity that Mr Telus left, because I think his math teacher should be very ashamed of him. He argued that in 2019 agricultural expenditure broadly understood by the state budget was record-breaking. Well, Mr Telus and the United Right Member State, 50 billion is not more than 54 billion in 2014, 50 billion is not more than 56 billion in 2015 when it spent so much on agriculture. The money from the RDPs, the big money farmers are waiting for, today they're making money for the state budget in their accounts, and they're supposed to go to farmers. ASF is not being fought. In 2019 he reached, for example, Wielkopolska and attacked the agriculture there. So really when it comes to agriculture, it was awful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the budget implemented. [[Applause]] That's true, sir. That's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister's doing all right, even apostolicism. It's all success. If it's so good, why is it so bad? That's what you're saying. You're fighting poverty. Then why did poverty increase in Poland in 2019? We read about this in the discharge analysis, at p. 22, paragraph 18 and p. 63. Your great minister Szumowski manages health care so that the debt of hospitals in Poland increased to 14 300 million, and in Lublin, from which I come, it is 900 million, of which one hospital, at al. Kraśnicka, is in debt to PLN 400 million. What have you done for hospitals to help them function well so that patients don't wait months in queues so they don't have to treat themselves privately? You didn't do anything. You're bragging today, ladies and gentlemen, that you're fighting the tax mob. However, we read in the report on pages 34 and 35, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the detection of this fell and the revenue from the collection of taxes decreased. The VAT mob's leaving somehow. Why don't you catch up with the 300 horsepower limo that the National Tax Administration bought? You're only gonna race for populism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President! Dear Directors, In the analysis on the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2019, one can read that most jobs in Poland were created in the automotive industry. That's tens of thousands of new jobs last year. This year, this industry is experiencing a huge crisis. I wanted to know if you had any idea how to deal with this crisis. The proceeds to the state budget from the automotive industry were hundreds of millions of zlotys. This year's not gonna be enough if you don't come out with help. The latest information from Mikokov, from the company that produces beams to the Fiat 500: 509 people have been fired from work, further jobs are at risk. Are you going to do something about it? Will there be a cover package for the Polish automotive industry? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] They won't do anything, sir. They won't do anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr NIK spoke of a negative assessment in the case of Polish Waters. In 2019, right after I became a Member, I asked in the interpellation what the issue of financing investments that should be implemented by the Polish Waters was like. Nothing could have happened because all the investments were just planned. We don't spend money well. In municipalities such as Mirsk in the summer there is no water in waterworks, you have to build deep wells. We do not grant local governments any subsidies so that they can build, we only give loans, and everyone knows what the situation of local governments is like. So it can't be good. Second case - 15% which remained for self-government roads. In the municipality of Podgórzyn, where the school was built, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The uncle has already applied three times for money to build a roundabout. Unfortunately, they're not here. And here's the money and it's unused. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u264	Thank you. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What year was that? Despite the recommendations made by the Ombudsman and the Supreme Audit Chamber, it was another year without a national Alzheimer's plan. Minister Szumowski disappeared, but 0.5 million people suffering from dementia in Poland did not disappear. They still need treatment and care. It was another year without the Court's judgment on the benefits to adult carers of disabled persons. It was also the year when the government's representative for humanitarian aid ended her work. Hence the questions, Mr President, to you: What is the status at the moment of the humanitarian aid control outside Poland? Is that check over? Has the independence of NIK controllers been secured? And finally, Mr. President, what were the reasons for removing your vice president from supervising the controls? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What was the reason for the appeal, and what was the reason for notifying the prosecution of the possibility of committing the crime? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Mr Sispier! You said that the defence sector was developing very rapidly. During the state of government, which I regret to say as a member of the National Defence Committee, the most fighter planes have fallen and have been grounded - these were MiG-29 planes - because they do not have sufficient service. For some reasons - I regret this - we import very much coal from the Russian Federation, unfortunately, and you are not able to arrange a service for these machines. The Navy's sinking. In your reign, in nearly five years, you have launched - yes, ma'am - one ship, and it was a tugboat. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, the Semko tow truck. As far as submarines are concerned, two submarines are running out of resuscitations. One of them, Eagle, is in repair, there was a fire, has been standing at the docks for nearly 2 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have no idea what to do with these ships: will we lease them from the Swedes, from the Germans, or will we buy them? But what we have done, tell the Member. Please? In the Navy? You're driving a new limo, and we've got 40-year-old ships, and we've got 40-year-old combat helicopters. It's time to take care of the health of Polish soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Right! They launched one ship and drowned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u268	Thank you. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The civilization challenge is so announced - a memorable program of clean air. On the occasion of the budget settlement we had the opportunity to see in the financial plan of the national fund, and specifically in the report on its implementation, that this commemorative programme included the transfer of PLN 103 billion in 10 years, of which over PLN 64 billion in grants, i.e. over PLN 6 billion per year. There's 3%. this amount, in the funds paid even less. On this basis, we can presume that the PiS government is planning this centuries-old program for 500 years, because that's how many years it takes to replace these 4 million cinderellas and warm up the buildings. Is that really the challenge of civilization? Because in Silesia this program will last even longer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe 1,000 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u270	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In the report of the National Bank of Poland we read that the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland purchased 100 t of gold. At the moment, Polish gold resources according to the National Bank of Poland are 228 t, except that these purchased 100 t of gold were deposited in Poland. In this connection, the question arises: Where were the remaining 128 t of gold deposited as mentioned in the report? Secondly, the question to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. How many audit proposals did the NIK send to specific government institutions, including the prosecutor's office, as a result of the audit of individual parts of the budget? What are the consequences of the notifications sent by the Supreme Board? Does the Supreme Audit Chamber monitor the state of implementation of its (Ring) audit requests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u272	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u273	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! We are talking about 2019 and the 2019 budget, so it is impossible not to tell what the Polish Waters were doing. A billion-dollar budget, while the inhabitants of Bielska-Biała, Jasienica, Mazańcowice and many other towns of the district of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiec are notoriously flooded. When we go to Polish Waters, they tell us: there is no money. So I'm asking you where the money is. Where's the money? Where do you bring them out that the people of these towns have been flooded all the time? Another thing is the construction of the Beskydy Integration Road. The measures were promised, and 2019 is another year when you failed to keep your promise. When are the funds for the construction of the BDI finally available? Entrepreneurs. Here's another hit, another tax. I ask on behalf of entrepreneurs from Bielska-Biała, the district of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywietki, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When you finally leave them alone. When you let them take care of their business, what they want to do... Thank you. ...and you'll stop burdening them with their next duties? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u274	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, we have already said a lot about the implementation of the budget in this Chamber. When you look at all these macroeconomic data, the revenues are bigger, spending - smaller, deficit is smaller. On the other hand, I think it is worth to tell Poles and Poles what is the debt of the State Treasury, because it reaches almost 1 trillion zloty today, because 2019 has brought an increase in this debt. My question in this context concerns what has happened with regard to the budget and the shipbuilding industry. I'm from Szczecin, from West Pomerania. We were going to build ships, we were going to develop our shipyards, but as far as these issues are concerned, nothing has been done. The construction plant of wind farms has fallen, Gryfia shipyard is in a difficult situation, Szczecińska Shipyard [[♪ The bell ♪]] No. builds ships, so the question arises: Can this be considered as the financial success of 2019? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! In this room, we often talk about ecology, including reducing air pollution. Currently there is a group of Poles and Poles, which cannot benefit from support from ecological government programs aimed at owners of single-family and multi-family buildings. Unfortunately, owners of multi-family private, multi-generational buildings, where more than two dwellings have been isolated, cannot count on any support from government programmes for the implementation of new green heating sources. Prime Minister! When do you expect this group of property owners to be assisted? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. President! High Izbo! It is a pity that there is no Prime Minister among us today, but he knows very well that we have a lot in common. I am always looking for what can be connected, finally I am from Sosnowiec, and we can be united in matters of Silesian voivodeship, from which we were elected as Members. That is why today I ask the Prime Minister to intervene in matters that are not included in the budget for both 2019 and 2020. Among other things, this applies. construction of a junction on the S1 road in Sosnowiec or expansion, and basically the construction of a new road connecting Euroterminal in Sławków with DK94 and mentioned S1 or the issue of modernisation of the historical station in the pine district of Maczki. These are not my investments, Matthew Bochenk, these are investments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] residents of Zagłębie Dąbrowski, who count on rapid intervention and effective action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u280	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u281	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! And I would like to say, Mr Glapiński, but you The president left us right after he finished his short speech, five minutes ago. I wanted to ask you a few questions that were asked at the finance committee's meeting the day before yesterday. We have been promised that you will respond to them today, but the President has left. Nevertheless, I will ask these questions. BGK and the Polish Development Fund bonds are issued and sold for over PLN 100 billion. According to Eurostat, the debt will increase to around 200 billion at the end of this year. This means that the Polish public debt will exceed 60%. If this fiscal impulse is necessary to actually save jobs, it is worth it. But I'd like to ask, because that's the question in our committee, what his attitude is and what his NBP plans are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another question and one last, small change. Why did the educational programme, which has been conducted for 12 years for Polish youth, explaining the functioning of the euro area? Why... Thank you very much. ... The NBP gave up this program? It seems a little symbolic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u282	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Do something for the seniors. Do something really for seniors instead of empty and false promises concerning further pensions, 14th, 15th or internship pensions, about which, when you make promises, you know that they will not be kept because 200 billion PLN is missing. Do something really for the oldest inhabitants of our country. Let's save geriatric troops in Poland, build a hospice. Do you know that in Łódź, the third largest city, there is still no fixed hospice for adults and therefore also for the oldest inhabitants? Do it, write it down, once again I call for it, money in the budget. And fight in your chest that you didn't agree that this money would be included in the 2019 budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u284	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of Law and Justice for the Pomeranian Voivodeship in the section: Culture and the protection of national heritage in 2019 planned PLN 60 million. Of these 60 million spent on the entire voivodship, only 11. Is Pomeranian culture so good that 49 million zlotys remain in the budget of the Ministry? The natural question arises: What has this amount been allocated to? Or on the ocean yacht of the Polish National Foundation, or maybe the Museum of Memory and Identity, depending on the foundation of the entrepreneurial monk Toruń? It is worth recalling that for 117 million PLN, which were transferred to this museum, several voivodship budgets for culture had to be submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u286	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The right to live in a clean environment and the ability to breathe clean air are personal interests that should be protected. Unfortunately, in our country, especially in Silesia, also in my city of Zabrze, we are very often dealing with excesses of smog standards or excesses of low emission standards. As it turns out, air pollution promotes the development of COVID-19. It's also shown by statistics. Unfortunately, Silesian Voivodeship is also leading in this infamous ranking in terms of infection. The Silesian authorities, of course, are taking action to improve air quality significantly, but without much increased government support, they will unfortunately not be able to cope with this problem on their own. I therefore appeal to the government from this point on to increase the resources for Silesia to fight smog, because those included in the budget last year were unfortunately insufficient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u289	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Question to the Minister of Defence and to the Minister of Finance: How much did the committee of Minister Macierewicz cost us from the beginning, when will he finish his work and when will the report be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u290	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You don't have an MP? I'm here, I'm here. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u291	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, we discussed widely the implementation of the 2019 budget. The information was concerned that the implementation of the European Union funds was at 60% to 70% , for example in the section: Work. This is so worrying that we have been talking a lot lately about new resources from the European Union, new finances, funds that we will be able to use in the coming years. I therefore have a question about how you intend to use these measures in the future, and what happened that at such a low level in the section: Work, for example, is being used. 60/70% this is a very low level of use, this is a highly worrying situation that is very bad for the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Smart financial management, e.g. public finances, e.g. takes into account that there is such a thing as a business cycle, and that after years of economic downturns come. And in 2019 you behaved as if the economic downturn in Poland or the crisis would never come. And it came much faster, for example, because there was a global epidemic. On the other hand, you spent public money and indebted the country, as the European Commission has already pointed out, saying that the structural deficit in Poland is one of the highest in the countries of the European Union. You will be offering us an amendment of the budget in a moment, and then you will find out what financial problems Poland has. I have a question: Will you continue to increase Poland's structural deficit, contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission, which indicates that this deficit (the Bell) is one of the highest in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u295	High Izbo! Today is a rare occasion because we host a rarely seen finance minister in the Sejm. I hope that the Minister himself will answer the questions, and he will not hide, as is often the case, behind the back of the officials. As long as we are here to welcome the Minister, and we do not admire him in one of the international institutions to which the Minister plans to transfer his activity, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister about a gap in corporate tax. According to estimates of the team of Prof. Gajewski from SGH this gap is currently 30 billion PLN. This is money that we could spend on Polish schools, on better health care, on research, but these profits are still being transferred to Ireland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. My question to the Minister is simple: When can we expect the gap expressed in billions of zlotys to fall at least to a one-digit value? Do we need to do this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wait for the new finance minister, a little less closely associated with the London city? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u296	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2019 only 375 thousand were born. children - about 13 thousand. less than in 2018 and by 27 thousand. less than in 2017, when births exceeded 400,000. What's wrong with your family policies? What's not working? You do not solve one of the most important strategic problems of Poland, which is that we start to shrink as a society, disappear. The number of deaths in 2019 by 35 thousand. She's outnumbered her births. Maybe it's time to stop puffing up and repeating yourself for the thousandth time: 500+, just swallow your tongue, as Elizabeth Rafalska swore, and start thinking about nursery+ programs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kindergarten+, and it's them programs. Rafał Trzaskowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the government how many government agencies operate in our country and what budget these agencies have. Some of them carry out extremely cosmic activities, including one, the Polish Space Agency, about which the Supreme Audit Chamber issued a negative opinion on the functioning, identified numerous irregularities and requested the Prime Minister to supervise this agency. Next thing you know, the National Freedom Institute. The National Freedom Institute has a budget of PLN 152 million. This institute did not organise a competition for NGOs last year and therefore non-governmental organisations did not receive funding under the Citizen Organisation Development Programme. I'd like to find out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] why this has happened and what measures the government intends to take in order to get these measures to non-governmental organisations in 2020. I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u300	Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u301	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Every year we spend several hundred million PLN on restructuring coal mining. This appropriation is intended to cover the main part of the decommissioning of mines. Uh-huh. We have spent over PLN 768 million in the budget for restructuring. Only 577 million were used. That's only 75%. that amount. The largest subsidies are received for this purpose by the Company for Restructuring of Mine, which is established in order to liquidate mines intended for liquidation. Uh-huh. The company received PLN 634 million. I wanted to ask the Minister: What happened? What has not been accomplished by the Company for Restructuring of Mine? What did the Ministry fail to realize that these measures had not been implemented? How long will you continue to liquidate the mines that have been transferred (the bell) to the Company for Restructuring of Mines? Using the presence of President NIK of Mr Banas: Mr President, bravely. This company may have time to check, its efficiency and reliability in the liquidation of its operation. Thank you. Thank you very much. Every year, powerful financial resources... We reported this at the committee meeting, but, of course, the government option does not allow this proposal to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u302	Thank you. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over the past few years, and in the last budget, which we are talking about today, we are still dealing with an incredible degree of carelessness in terms of infrastructure. And I'm talking specifically about the national road number 10, the section between Bydgoszcz and Torun. This is one of the most dangerous episodes when it comes to roads in Poland. Dozens of accidents, wounded and killed. The money is placed every year and then disappears. It's not like we're talking about 50 kilometers of national road, which is irrelevant. This is a key section of the road for the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, crucial from the perspective of both road safety as well as the responsibility of the state for what it looks like, is being prepared and functioning road infrastructure. The safety of people who drive this road is a priority that should be achieved. And I'm gonna move that we finally take care of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u305	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the implementation of the budget, I would like to ask two questions. The first concerns collective communication. More than 10 million Poles and Poles are excluded from communication, and instead of taking real action, the government talks about the construction of the Central Communication Port or other PR events. How much money have you spent on the fight against communication exclusion? Why do you let the PKS fall, which for many people is the only way to transport? How is it possible that the government has not been able to find funds to repair the station in Poznań for so many years? The second issue is the situation of workers and workers. In recent months, people employed in PKP, LOT and many other institutions have protested. Why didn't you secure money to keep jobs in such important institutions, which depend on the well-being of all passengers and passengers in Poland? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u306	Thank you, sir. Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear ruling party! You have called for the office of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child - I will remind you that without the procedures - a man not only incompetent in his field, but also focused mainly on his own ideological crusade. Moreover, you have appointed a man to this office who cannot properly and legally manage the finances and budget of his own office. The audit of the NIK on the implementation of the State budget for 2019 in the section on the Ombudsman shows a number of shortcomings. The NIK indicates that part of the expenditure was incurred for the execution of public contracts awarded contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Law. Part of the tasks were calculated not according to its description. In the report, the NIK explicitly summarizes: the irregularities identified during the review indicate insufficient supervision of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child over the implementation of the budget in Part 14. My question: Was the case addressed to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline? Have there been consequences for those who have failed to carry out this reporting? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Law and Justice! This spokesperson is for exchange. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u308	Thank you very much. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the analysis presented, we will find a point on housing and spatial management. There is no doubt that investment is one of the tasks of the State. These are housing investments that support new construction investments and support the availability of housing for young people. If we look at the success of the government, we can see that, unfortunately, there is nothing to show for it. These 1,700 apartments are definitely not enough, when we are still short of 1.5 million apartments. Therefore, the question is: What's next with living+? What about the housing market situation? Is the government going to do something about this, or is it going to pull the cancer out of this program, as well as the idea of an electric car? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u310	Thank you, Member. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will no longer ask about the 3 million PLN from the Prime Minister for Tadeusz Rydzyk or about 4 million PLN for the Polish nuclear power industry, which nobody has seen. I will ask about your programs because the unenforced PKS+ is not the only government program created by someone who doesn't move from behind a desk in Warsaw and doesn't know how local governments work. Today, I met Minister Rafalska in the Sejm, who I hosted at the opening of the nursery from the program "Milch+" when I worked in the Gorzów local government. I know how bureaucratic the competition was about too late. You're supposed to be subsidizing nursery services from the program, but in 2019 you took a third of the special-purpose reserve and then you were late with your payout. There's also a Senior+, but as much as 77% local governments have given in to your decoupled from the reality of the procedure, thus making as much as 12% the appropriations from this programme have not been used. Minister! Who writes these rules in your house? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause I'm sure no one ever built a nursery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's one thing I'm missing in this discussion, the password about the VAT gap is missing. What happened that the right had forgotten that the foundation of its economic success was the VAT gap? Maybe that VAT gap increased in 2019. She grew not in my opinion, but in Dr. Sławomir Dudek's opinion, a former high-ranking official at the Ministry of Finance. This gap is quite impressive, because according to his estimates it is 25 billion PLN. Yeah, yeah, 25 billion zlotys. And in 2018 it was also a lot, 24 billion PLN, and it also burdened the government of the United Right. By the way, since the beginning of the government, the VAT gap has supposedly absorbed PLN 109 billion according to these estimates. I would therefore ask for a written reply as the Ministry of Finance estimates the VAT gap. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it really that much? What is the programme of its liquidation, or at least its limitations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u315	Thank you, Marshal. I also thank you for bringing me back to the people asking questions, because I was just in committee. I would like to repeat what I asked when I was making the budget for 2019, namely to ask about the issue of gradually falling agricultural expenditure and expenditure per year, it is about budget expenditure. E.g. in 2016 - a drop of almost 9% , in 2017 compared to 2016 - a decrease of 11.24%. There was a small increase, at the level of 10 percent, in 2018. But by 2019 there was almost a 5% decrease. At the same time, we are dealing with phenomena and tasks that are difficult to solve in agriculture, such as the ASF issue. The ASF issue makes you need more strength in your veterinarian. These expenses would be needed, especially for staff, for wages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can't be solved. I think that - the last sentence, your marshal - when we see GDP growth and at the same time a decrease in agricultural expenditure, this indicates that this department does not benefit from GDP growth in Poland. I think we should seriously consider this. This is a task for the government, but also for Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u316	Thank you very much, sir. One last question. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the implementation of the Polish Nuclear Energy Programme. How'd it go? I ask with care, because the tasks put before this program are extremely ambitious - the supply of energy to the Polish economy at acceptable prices, independence and energy security of the country, and I will also add the saving of our civilisation from disaster as a result of the climate crisis. I think we can agree that it's hard to do more important things. What's the budget? PLN 3 million. Take such a Niepołomice Forest, a club in the back of the Polish Extraclasse - the budget amounts to PLN 3.5 million, which is more than Poland spends on the development of nuclear energy. The Niepołomice Forest has taken its place in the top half of the table, with the budget being undoubtedly successful. Congratulations. Expecting the Champions League would be ridiculous. I will admit that in this light I have a bit of a problem with knowing what can be expected in terms of energy supply for the Polish economy, energy independence and the fight against climate disaster at the programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the budget of PLN 3 million. Unless there was a typing error somewhere and a couple of zeros got lost. I'd appreciate it if you'd settle those doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u318	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of people asking questions. Ms Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few sentences about water management. Allow me to quote part of the report of the independent auditor for the Minister of Maritime and Inland Water Management from the survey of the State Water Farm of Poland, financial statements. The report shall provide a fair and clear view of the entity's property and financial situation as at 31 December 2019 and its financial result. It shall be consistent with the form and content of the entity in force by law and by the statutes of the entity. It was drawn up on the basis of correctly kept accounts in accordance with Chapter 2 of the Accounting Act. On the basis of the work carried out in the course of the study, it shall be consistent with the information contained in the accounts. It has been drawn up in accordance with Article. 240. In addition, in the light of the knowledge of the individual and its surroundings obtained during our study, we declare that we have not identified in the report on the activity of significant distortions. As regards actions in 2019, the total of Polish Waters in maintenance work carried out more than 4.5 thousand. tasks for a total amount of 275 million throughout the country, on the premises of the following facilities: water, streams - over 26 thousand. km, channels - over 9 thousand. km, flood shafts - for a length of approx. 8300 km, flooring objects, jazz - 2500, pumping stations, pump stations - in the number of 566, other objects - 410. At the same time, as regards investment works in 2019, Polish waters carried out investments with 226 investment tasks for a total amount of about PLN 1150 million. Expenditure on flood prevention activities was incurred on 146 projects - in the amount of PLN 744 million. This is the answer to your question, how the funds that are included in the budget of Polish Waters have been developed. Let me remind you that one of the key investments that was carried out in the Ub. r. - I think that some of you in this room remember this investment perfectly - there is a flood-proof investment, the Racibórz reservoir. In 2015, we took over this investment from a contractor who did not intend to carry it out, in a state of complete decomp. We've chosen a new contractor. Currently Poland is in the state of arbitration with the contractor, who was not doing the work properly. Despite all obstacles, we managed to make this investment effective. Thanks to this and thanks to this tank we can protect more than 2.5 million inhabitants of three surrounding voivodships. That's just an example. We can, of course, set an example for Malczyce, many other investments, including those within the scope of the meliorative scandal, so to a large extent our work is to correct, plus to start new investments that I just mentioned. I just wanted to make a brief reference to the NIK report. Here the opinion of Mrs Czernow came to mind: the assessment of the activities of Polish Waters is negative. The assessment of activities of Polish Waters by NIK is not negative. The activity assessment concerned the financial statements. There are 1 million 100 financial documents in the Polish Waters. While every company in Poland prepares financial statements by March-June, the audit of financial documents of Polish Waters takes place in January-February. It is done on the basis of a clipping of documents which are not always registered due to a large number of documents. The financial statements shall enter the Ministry by 15 April. Such financial statements have been affected. It's been subject to our audit, our auditor's audit. I presented an opinion on this report. As far as flood aid is concerned, it lies more in the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, but I will allow myself to present it. As you may remember, this year's ad hoc allowances up to the amount of 6,000. PLN has been transferred to families as a matter of urgency, as well as funds for renovation of buildings, housing up to 200 thousand. PLN and for investment buildings - up to 100,000. As of July 15, a total amount was transferred to more than 1940 families of victims. In total, this is almost PLN 17 million, including the Podkarpackie Voivodeship mentioned here the most, because over PLN 11.5 million. Briefly on the numerous comments that have emerged on the reform of water management. We are still surprised that Members of the Civic Platform want to discuss the reform of water management and the Water Law Act. Let me remind you that this is one of these three directives, i.e. water, nitrate, sewage, where the state was implemented for the entire eight years, which means that writing the perfect Water Law, given that it is about 600 articles, you had about 5 days for each article. You can answer your own questions as to how this time was used. That's why I'm surprised to see you today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so many new ideas to reform water management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u320	Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several issues that concerned the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! One thing that is undisputed and there is no doubt about it: the budget of the Ministry of National Defence was realized entirely last year. We've reached 2%. gross domestic product. We are one of the eight countries of the North Atlantic Alliance, which is fulfilling the commitments made by NATO states at the Newport Summit. Let me repeat once again: one of the eight countries that carry out allies' obligations. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krutul asked about the issue of the Navy. The year 2019 - expenditure in terms of technical modernisation of the Navy, is the amount of PLN 1 billion. The year 2020 - these funds will be gradually increased. The year 2020 in the budget plan for the current year is almost PLN 1400 million. All I'm talking about is technical upgrades and repair issues for the Navy's equipment. So we are gradually increasing these funds. As far as submarines are concerned. Yes, indeed, action is being taken on the introduction of so-called actions. Bridges, purchase of two ships under contract with the Swedish side. This will be implemented already in 2020. On issues related to the modernisation of MiG-29 aircraft, I would remind you that the modernisation of these aircraft took place over a number of years. For example, the issue of modernization of 2011, this loud one, among others. bound, considered in the context of the disaster that took place at Malbork. The next tranche was implemented in 2016. It is also a decision made by the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak that we are definitely leaving post-Soviet equipment. Therefore, the acceleration of actions on the choice of the fifth generation aircraft, the F-35 model, which has been selected. It is the only one that is available today and which is in the circle of interest of the Polish party. The deal's signed. This responds to requests, among others. Members of the Confederation, why this is not reflected in the implementation of the 2019 budget. The agreement for the purchase of F-35 aircraft was signed in January 2020 and will probably be discussed when discussing the implementation of the 2020 budget. Minister, what about the battle helicopters? Ladies and gentlemen! It's kind of a matter of... Choppers? Ladies and gentlemen, combat helicopters - the Kruk programme. He's still in the process of analytics and concepts. Of course, it will be implemented because we realize that the MiG-24 helicopters, with this concept, which was clearly defined by the Minister of National Defence, connected with the departure from post-Soviet technology... These actions will undoubtedly also be implemented, I will not say that in the coming weeks or months, but this is a matter of a very predictable and very short time, when final decisions will be made on combat helicopters in the equipment of the Polish army. We are fully aware that this equipment we have today is as equipment as it is, and this decision to leave post-Soviet equipment is irrevocable and it will proceed. She is progressing and will continue to be intensified. Ladies and gentlemen! Cherry on the cake. There is no debate and debate in Parliament, at the meetings of the National Defence Committee, and not only if there is no so-called issue raised. the Smolensk subcommittee. I would like to remind you once again: in the legal context, the Minister for National Defence, as regards the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents, has only one obligation - to adopt a report on the implementation of this committee. The Minister of National Defence expects such a report to be presented as an institution, a body which is independent of the Minister of National Defence. Anyway, in the near future, according to the article. 152 (The bell) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will be held at the Parliament's Committee on National Defence, which will be held on 30 July, and then there will probably be an explanation of any questions raised by Members of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u322	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these questions about clean air. This is of course a priority, especially for our ministry, the Ministry of Climate, for the entire government. This is indeed one of the biggest challenges for Poland, one of the biggest programs in the national fund - PLN 103 billion. These are not the only means to fight to improve air quality. The Member mentioned that proposals for PLN 3 billion were submitted. We have already confirmed at this moment, we have given a positive decision for over PLN 2.2 billion. But in addition to the grants prepared in NFOŚiGW part of the program, clean air was also the start of a thermomodernization relief, thanks to which Poles can deduct from PIT expenditure on the thermomodernization of their homes. We will know the exact amount only at the end of the year, how much money has been used, but I expect it to be even more. As regards Silesia, in particular the improvement of air quality in Silesia, we have launched a special programme for combating emissions in Silesia, in which there is nearly PLN 1 billion, exactly PLN 977 million. At the moment there is a call for 50 million PLN under this scheme, so the municipalities can still apply for this call. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, this was the third question addressed to our department, we are currently working on the programme of Polish nuclear energy. I expect this to be ready soon. We have also prepared a draft national spent fuel management plan. The company is also working on an environmental decision, a location decision for the first reactor. It is obvious that in this phase of the project we only spend millions of dollars for this purpose. Much more money will be invested when we actually build it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u324	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u325	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! We thank you, thank you to all Members, to you and to you, for your interest in spending funds on infrastructure investments, on roads and on rails. Thank you for all your questions. I'll try to answer them. One of them concerned investments in the district of Oliczycko-Sędziszowski, those investments which fight against the exclusion of communication. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few sentences about both these investments carried out from the point of view of the central budget and about supporting local government units, i.e. the district of Ołoczycko-Sędziszowski, and the municipalities which are part of the district itself. As far as investments are concerned from a central point of view, the modernization of the railway line between Rzeszow and Krakow is currently being carried out that year. This reconstruction will be completed in 2021, the value of the project - PLN 700 million. It will allow you to move much faster between the capitals of Podkarpacie and Małopolska voivodship. The speed for passenger transport will increase to 160 km/h, while for freight transport it will increase to 120 km/h. Another element of the central investment, this time already completed, is the railway investment, i.e. the modular station that was created, was built in Sądziszów Małopolski. The railway station was implemented as part of the railway investment programme. This is the first station in Podkarpacie, which was implemented under this program. Since the beginning of July, he has served travelers, serving all those who in turn benefit from the Magistrate of Małopolska. Programs supporting self-government. Only in 2019 and 2020 the district received and from the reserve of general subsidies, and from the Fund of Roads of Local Government nearly PLN 6 million for the implementation of its opinions - from the reserve of general subsidies it is almost PLN 2 million, while from the Fund for Roads is almost PLN 4 million. So that we are very pleased that local governments - I think that with the support of parliamentarians from this area - are so strongly benefiting from programmes that are under the responsibility of the Government of Law and Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure. Another question concerning the support of local governments as well. This time the municipality of Podgórzyn, which, as one of the Members pointed out, did not receive any funding despite the submission of applications. Most likely it's the Self-Government Road Fund. We've analyzed this case. Neither the Ministry of Infrastructure in 2019 nor in 2020 nor, in particular, in 2019, the list on which the municipality of Podgórzyn would find itself - neither the basic list nor the reserve list. The application, which was submitted by this municipality, was most likely not formally qualified. There must have been some shortcomings, some mistakes that just didn't qualify him for financial support. In such situations, we recommend close contact with those who write conclusions, with the provincial office which accepts and evaluates these conclusions. I think that in such a close relationship you can explain a lot of things and you can avoid these mistakes later. I would like to remind you that this year the Self-Government Road Fund is already in place and the recruitment for 2021 is still ongoing. It will be completed in the first half of August, so that I encourage local government units - and municipalities, and counties - to submit applications and seek funding. S10 expressway Toruń - Bydgoszcz. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of June this year, the decision of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which increases the financial limit for the national road construction programme. Within this new pool, nearly PLN 22 billion, as much as PLN 3 billion, exactly PLN 2900 million, is earmarked for this route. So this road already has budgeting. At the moment, work on the environmental decision is ending. The tender for the design and construction of this section of the expressway will be announced next year. And another task from the national road construction program - Beskidzki Road Integration. I would like to remind the High House that it was the Government of Law and Justice that entered this path as a road with the parameters of the expressway, for, even as an expressway, into the program. It has secured financial resources to carry out preparatory work, i.e. access to the STS documentation (Bingle). I am convinced that, in the new EU perspective, we will also find financial resources to make it practically... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...to carry out this task. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Fame... One more thing, Marshal. Fame. The question of organizing the access to the terminal in Sławków. Not more than yesterday we had a meeting with parliamentarians and local government officials from this area. We are wondering how to solve this problem together and improve the access to the terminal in Sławków. The first ideas are coming up. I hope that, in cooperation with the local authorities, we will be able to build such an efficient access to this important transhipment terminal in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u326	Thank you very much. And please, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Dziedzic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u327	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the question concerning the purchase of 32 vehicles for the National Tax Administration, I would like to say that this is part of the implementation of the programme for the modernisation of the KAS for the period 2020 to 2022. These aren't fancy limos. There are 16 compact-class vehicles, 16 reinforced-power vehicles designed to carry out the special powers of Customs and Treasury officers. On the other hand, as regards the increase in VAT crime, I would like to say that the official statistics on the VAT gap, also the number of preparatory proceedings being initiated and, above all, the number of preparatory proceedings completed, contradict this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u328	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at Sebastian Skuza's Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The deficit in the public finance sector, calculated according to the EU methodology, was 16.8 billion at nominal value, which is 0.7% GDP. As regards the state public debt calculated according to ESA's methodology, i.e. the EU, it amounted to PLN 1045.1 billion, or 46%. GDP. The debt ratio decreased compared to 2018 as it amounted to 48.8% in 2018. GDP. During the debate, there were also words to which I would like to address, namely the very high cost of public debt service. I must definitely deny it here. These costs are among the lowest since the 1990s, if not the lowest, and represent 1.2% GDP. And the question was, were we prepared to slow down? Of course, the draft budget law and the adopted budget law for 2020 assumed a slowdown. And there were discussions here, whether this increase would be above 3% or maybe below. But I don't think anyone was predicting a recession at the time, not even the independent economists who were mentioned here. I would like to give here a comparison of Poland and France. In France, the public debt at the end of 2019 amounted to 98.1%. and the deficit of the public finance sector 3%. On Bastille Day President Macron announced that he wanted to increase public debt to 120% to implement its own anticovid shield, creating a special long-term public debt account to counter the effects of COVID. There was also a question about the number of executive agencies. This is in the explanatory memorandum for the implementation of the budget law. These executive agencies are 10. Their revenue is about 8.5 billion, costs are 8.1 billion. And then there was a supplementary question about the issues involved in the fight against ASF. I would like to say, as former Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, that this year it was possible to allocate funds for a very important investment in the State Veterinary Institute - the State Research Institute in Puławy, to an animal farm. This institute is particularly important in Poland in the fight against ASF. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u330	Thank you very much. And now I ask the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control of Mr Marian Banas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me first of all to refer to Mrs Leszczyna's statement, which prompted my son's tablet. Well, I'd like to say that my son has filed a notice to the prosecution in connection with the detection of certain irregularities in the company in which he worked. So it's not true, as Mrs. Leszczyna said, and she said publicly that she was involved in some sort of irregularity. On the contrary, it was just after the irregularity was detected that the prosecution informed the prosecution of the suspicion of the crime and, of course, was released from work in this company in a short time. So much for explaining this unfortunate statement by Mrs Leszczyna. And now I'm going to refer to the questions that have been asked here, among others. by Mr Tomasz of the Left, concerning the proposals submitted by the Supreme Audit Chamber following budgetary control. I would like to say that after the review of the implementation of the state budget in 2019. The Supreme Audit Chamber has addressed more than 400 applications to the heads of control units. With regard to requests addressed to the prosecution and other bodies, it should be pointed out that we are in the process of analysing irregularities in terms of criminal law and in terms of liability for breaching public finances discipline. As a result of these analyses, we will make appropriate notifications. So we're still monitoring the situation. As regards the questions that Mr Szczerba asked, I would like to say that the control of the implementation of public administration tasks in the field of humanitarian aid outside Poland was not a budgetary control, but I would like to say briefly that it ended this year. The control of humanitarian aid was a control outside Poland and was not a budgetary control. It was a planned check. Currently, information on the results of the inspection is prepared, but has not yet been signed. At the present time, she is under my direct supervision. As far as your Vice President Dziuba is concerned, I have been forced to make a notification of suspicion of a crime in fulfilling my statutory obligations on the basis of legal opinions. The case is in the D.A.'s office. We're waiting for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u332	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled to the draft resolution, I propose that the Sejm refer this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission proposes that the Sejm should accept the information on guarantees and guarantees granted in 2019 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. I state that the Sejm took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: presented by the President of the Council of Ministers document: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2019 (print No 397) together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development (print No 501). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Olga Semeniuk, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u333	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of 2019 the total area of zones was less than 22 950 ha and was larger than at the end of 2018 by almost 66 ha due to the change in the area of the Krakow zone. The change in the area of only one zone resulted from the introduction of a new investment support instrument in place of special economic zones and the liquidation as of 16 June 2019 of the possibility of changing their borders and areas. The zones included areas located in 186 cities and 311 municipalities. In 2019, municipalities such as Babice, Nowe Brzesko and Szczurów, all from Małopolska voivodship joined the group of municipalities in which the instrument of the zone operates. The average level of zoning was almost 65% and was 2 percentage points higher than in 2018. However, the differences between the use of the different zones were significant and ranged from 33.5%. in the Legnica zone up to 80.5% in the Mielec zone. As of 31 December 2019, entrepreneurs had 2392 valid business permits in the zones. The least important permits, i.e. 59, were in the smallest area, i.e. Kamienna Góra, and mostly 353 permits, in the Katowice zone. In 2019 alone, one permit was issued to operate in the Tarnobrzeg zone. Only one authorisation was the result of the introduction of a new financial support instrument for investment and the extinction of special economic zones. In 2019 147 authorisations were withdrawn from legal trading as a result of withdrawal or expiry. The accumulated value of capital invested in zones since the beginning of their existence amounted to PLN 132 billion. Investment expenditure was higher than in 2018 by over 12.8 billion, i.e. almost 11%. The highest share in the cumulative value of the investment was such zones as Wałbrzych, Katowice and Łódź. These three zones accounted for almost half of the amount invested in the zones since the beginning of their activities. At the end of 2019, Volkswagen Poznań, who was authorised to operate in the Wałbrzych zone in which the plant is located in Września, and in the Kostrzyn-Słubice zone, which is covered by the factory in Poznań, was the largest business in the zones. Zone investors employed over 388 thousand in total. employees. Compared to 2018, employment increased by 8.9 thousand. employees, i.e. 2.4%. The largest increase occurred in the Tarnobrzeg zone and amounted to almost 2.6 thousand. jobs. In this category there were also Krakow and Wałbrzych zones with almost 2 000 results. And $1.5,000. jobs. The number of new jobs increased by 5.1% compared to 2018 Which led to an increase of almost $12,000. employment. In this case too, it was the tarnobrzeg zone that recorded the biggest increase, with more than 3,000 new jobs. The position of the leader in both categories of the tarnobrzeg zone is due to the activity of the company Superior Industries in Stalowa Wola, the producer of aluminium wheels, and the company Nowy Style, which produces furniture and chairs in Jasle. The largest employer in the zones was Volkswagen Poznań, who employed almost 9.5 thousand at the end of 2019. employees. In the ranking of the leading countries in terms of country of origin Poland was again in the first position, suspending the amount of investment expenditure. Investments of Polish entrepreneurs in the zone increased by PLN 3 billion compared to investments in 2018, but the share in the total value of invested capital remained at a similar level and amounted to slightly more than 23%. The second position in the structure of invested capital was strengthened by investments from German entrepreneurs, increasing their value by a share in total zone investments compared to 2018. Businesses with Dutch, Luxembourg and American capital are still at the forefront of investors. The top five countries in the ranking were 62.5%. investment expenditure from all zones. The capital from Poland reached the highest value in the Mielec zone and amounted to almost PLN 5 billion. It was almost 44%. total investment expenditure incurred by entrepreneurs in this zone. In the Wałbrzych zone, German investments were accumulated with a total value of just over PLN 7 billion, which gave them the first position in the capital structure of the zone. In the Wałbrzych zone, too, the highest value was achieved by investments carried out by entrepreneurs with Dutch and Luxembourg capital, taking respectively third and second place among the three leading countries of origin of the invested capital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Luxembourg's investments amounted to almost PLN 5 billion and Dutch investments amounted to PLN 3 billion. In conclusion, 2019 was characterised by a smaller dynamic of variables describing the effects of special economic zones compared to 2018. The dynamics of total investment in employment and new jobs were positive, but only in the case of investment, the increase exceeded 10%. Only the number of new permits issued in 2019 was lower than in 2018, but this was the result of the introduction of the Law of 10 May 2018 on the promotion of new investments of a new support instrument, modelled on special economic zones, but applied throughout Poland. In accordance with that law, it was only possible to authorise business activities in the special economic zone until 15 June 2019. Since the date of entry into force of the implementing acts of the above Act, i.e. since 5 September 2018, zone managers have issued decisions on support for entrepreneurs planning investments in Poland as a whole. The implementation of the new support instrument and the extinction of zone instruments resulted in a slight increase in zone space in 2019. The change in the area concerned only the Krakow zone, as I mentioned at the beginning, and resulted in an increase of its area by almost 66 ha. At the same time, I would like to sum up the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, where questions were raised by Members. They will be answered in writing. A significant part of them concerned control by NIK. All the answers to really doubts about the report itself have also been commented by us and there is access to this in the report itself. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u334	Thank you very much, Minister. How good it is that there are marshals who do not interrupt ministers and people who present their positions. Ha, ha, ha! Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm at least starting this part of the session with me. That's nice. That's nice. It is very nice that we can continue this meeting together. Before I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present his position to the committee, I would like to kindly inform you that from 17.30 to 17.50 I will announce a recess. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present the report of the committee, Parliamentary Printing No 501, held on 21 July 2020 on the consideration of the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones as at 31 December 2019, Parliamentary Printing No 397. The information was submitted to the Members by the Ministry of Development and then the committee held a discussion on it. There are 14 special economic zones in Poland. The principles of their operation are based on the fact of state aid granted to firms investing in their territory, which is regulated by the European Union. The area of the zone is almost 23,000. ha of land, average degree of development - almost 65%. At the end of 2019 there were 2392 valid permits to carry out activities in their territory and employment amounted to more than 388 thousand. persons. The accumulated value of the invested capital amounts to as much as PLN 132 billion, an increase of 11% compared to the value in 2018. The Commission recognises that special zones fulfil their role as an inspiration for economic development and therefore, after the discussion, the committee has adopted the government's information and recommends that it be adopted by the High House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u336	Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Leonard Krasulski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. State of 31 December 2019 The report on the activities of this new investment support instrument is prepared annually, allowing comparisons and analyses to be made for both the results of the instrument and for the activities of the zone management companies themselves. First of all, it should be stressed that the 1994 Act on Special Economic Zones is gradually replaced by the 2018 Act on the promotion of new investments. Thus, 2019 was the second year of operation of the new instrument, so-called. The Polish Investment Zone, but the first in which entrepreneurs have hardly received new zone permits, because now they receive decisions about support. The instrument introduced by the Act of June 2018 on the promotion of new investments allows the placement of new investments across Poland. Special economic zones have thus gone further to investors. Today they are not only responsible for specific investment parks, but also for the service of the investor in a significant area assigned to specific zones. This service is of a business nature and we see positive results in this area. The implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones should not be considered. This has been reflected in some aspects of the activity of the zones discussed in the report, in particular in the number of permits for activities in zones issued in 2019 and a minor change in the area of zones. In 2015... The total number of authorisations valid for the end of 2019 decreased slightly to 2392 following the periodic withdrawal and expiry of authorisations issued in previous years. However, the emergence of a new support instrument did not have a major impact on the activities of businesses already authorised. The continuation of the investments started resulted in the cumulative value of the capital located in the zones increased to PLN 132 billion, increased by more than PLN 12.8 billion in 2019, i.e. by 10.7%. It's an extremely positive result. In turn, total employment in the zones amounted to 388 thousand. staff, including 8900 new jobs in 2019. That's a 2.4% increase. The main zone investors remain Polish companies, but foreign capital can also be attracted. In this respect, investors from Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the United States are the leaders. The automotive industry continues to dominate the sector's zone investment structure. The government's information was supplemented by a brief information on the functioning of the current instrument, which made it possible to fully identify the government's activities in the field of zone instruments. The overall activity of the zones should be assessed positively and the level of implementation of the law - as very good. High Izbo! Law and Justice recommends the adoption of government information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u338	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u339	Thank you very much. There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! But I think you've already left the minister. Is it? Yes, absolutely. No, the minister is. Oh, welcome. The PiS government listens to us, so it is. I'm glad. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to make a statement concerning prints no. 397 and 501, the government's information on the activities of special economic zones for 2019. I will start by saying that if we were to adopt, without further reflection, what is in government information, it could be considered that special economic zones are developing without a problem, and in relation to the previous year there is progress in both the capital invested and the newly created jobs, etc. Only, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this government information, we have received a report from the NIK, which - you have to admit - has carefully examined the activities of special economic zones from a different angle, that is to say, combined the objectives and tasks recorded in the government strategy and in the plans of management companies with their implementation and effects. Here, unfortunately, the conclusions are no longer so positive. In general, the report does not leave the dry thread on surveillance, which lies in the hands of the Ministry of Development. The supervision of zone management companies is also very negative. In order to ensure that there are no understatements: the controllers do not question the benefits of the activities of the zones, but point to the limited effects of the activities of the special economic zones in relation to the objectives pursued. The report states that according to experts, the activity of special zones is an ineffective instrument for attracting foreign investors to selected regions of the country, because it is not the companies managing zones that decide where the investor should be, only investors who decide where to locate their business. As a result, the primary function of zones related to the support of the least developed regions or with the greatest socio-economic problems has been significantly weakened. According to NIK, this important aspect of zone activity is often overlooked during negotiations of management companies with entrepreneurs planning to invest in them. The government's strategy papers attribute an important role to the zones as an instrument for investor management and investment processes. What is very important, the report by NIK indicates the lack of proper supervision by Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, the lack of guidance on the proper verification of the conditions necessary for the granting of permits for activities in zones. NIK notes that Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz did not exercise proper supervision over the activities of the zones. As she says, she performed only formal supervision correctly, but no longer in substance, where it was necessary to define the criteria according to which management companies in zones should control the implementation of the promotional tasks enshrined in the plans of these companies or strategic government documents. This is mainly about achieving the objective of creating conditions to increase the number of innovative and revitalizing companies. Companies did not create promotional mechanisms for such projects. We can see in the documents that, as a result of inadequate supervision and prolonged procedures in the issue of permits, which lasted even more than 18 months, we often lost a multi-million-dollar investment. Taking all this into account, the Civic Coalition calls for the rejection of government information on the activities of special economic zones in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u340	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adrian Zandberg, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u341	High Izbo! Special Economic Zones is a relic from the transformation era. When the first zones were formed, unemployment reached 17% , on the streets there were small fiascoes, and on TV there was just the first episode of.Mode for success and, apparently, Marshal Czarzasty had an afro on his head at the time. And then it was said that there was a temporary, ad hoc solution, a response to a deep social and economic crisis. Unfortunately, these privileges for international corporations have stayed with us for a long, far too long. And it would seem that today we are talking about this matter in other circumstances that there are no small fiascoes in the streets that Poles are not excited about the emotional life of Ridge Forrester - that Marshal Czarzasta has no afro on his head, I do not need to convince you - and yet listening to this debate, I felt that we had gone back in time because here the Minister of Law and Justice boasts about how many German corporations the Government of Law and Justice exempts from taxes, and says that the zones are growing and that it is good, and that it will now give tax privileges to corporations all over the country, and that there were voices from the hall that it was not enough. In my opinion, it is a problem to put on the head, because the reasons for these tax privileges were job creation. Such a suggestion appears also in this government report, but the cause and effect relationship is more than questionable here, because a large number of those companies that invest in zones would still make investments in Poland, even if they did not receive tax credits. Just refer to the work of Prof. Augustyński or even to the report EY.Made in Poland, which describes how decisions are made on the location of investments in Poland. Stability is important, access to infrastructure is important, the internal market is important, the competences of workers are important, and the importance of tax relief is actually modest. The truth is, and it is worth saying in this House that corporate tax is very, very low in Poland, it is almost the lowest in the European Union, because we have been participating in the bottom race in this respect for years. And unfortunately, the supposedly pro-social government is also taking part. In a word, ladies and gentlemen, it is not taxes that decide whether Germany or Dutch will set up a factory in Poland. And here, not to be a literal, simple example. The Swiss bank UBS wanted to create a service centre in Poland and demanded that the economic zone be extended to the centre of Wrocław. Of course, the media was filled with lyrics, I don't know if it was sponsored by chance, that it was necessary to do so, otherwise there will be no jobs. In the end, this consent was not granted, and it is very good that it was not granted. And what happened? Well, it happened that this bank still invested in the capital of Lower Silesia, because it just pays off. Of course, every company, every corporation will be happy to accept tax gifts from the state, but these gifts are a cost. for all of us, because this is the money that is later missing from schools that are later missing from hospitals that are later missing from science and development. And it's worth remembering in this room. [[Applause]] Give him a round of applause, give him a round of applause. And I must also say that I am surprised that during discussions on the free market zones from the Platform and from the Confederation, they do not say that tax exemption is a threat to fair, equal competition. After all, these zones were supposed to help the poorest counties. But we're talking. Wait for our speech. All you have to do is take a look at this report that you've provided, on the map that's there, to find out that it's a long time ago not true, because it's in the most attractive, best connected areas. These really aren't oasis in the investment desert. And here we just have to ask the question of how Polish companies, which operate without these privileges, are to compete with someone who practically does not pay taxes to a large extent. [[Applause]] What is this market where operators are treated in an extremely unequal way? Ladies and gentlemen, the resources we're losing to these gifts for international giants can be spent better. I was just talking about what investors are doing. We need more money for R &amp; D, we need more money for education, we need money for public investment, we need courageous public investment, because it is these expenditures that will really determine the competitive position of the Polish economy in the future. Money is needed for these purposes. But that money doesn't grow on trees. If we exempt large corporations from taxes, the cost of the state's living falls on employees and small businesses. And unfortunately, this is practice. These governments too, and this unfortunately was seen in the previous point of the debate in which we talked about the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! This government report lacks a fair balance of the existence of economic zones. There are questions such as: Would not investment be carried out without this public aid? Do not companies that operate in zones in practice apply unfair competition to non-zone companies? Didn't the costs of the zones turn out to be higher than the costs of active labour market policies? And I have to say, unfortunately, just like the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] has not prepared reliable answers to the questions raised in the Supreme Audit Chamber report, nor has the government prepared answers to these questions. And it is a pity, because today, when the time of economic zones is over, we should draw wise conclusions from this for the future, so that we do not make again and again, and once again, the same mistakes from Balcerowicz's period of spoiled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u342	Thank you very much, sir. You made me feel a little bit because you mentioned Afro on my head. I remember those times, and Afro too, like the Pope of the Cream of His Time. Beautiful days, beautiful times. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen, I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15. The speaker is yours, sir. Use it miraculously.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u343	We have these nights, and always afternoon meetings, Mr. Marshal. I don't remember having night meetings with you, sir, but I dream of them. Yesterday, here. It was, it was, it was yesterday. It was, of course. Some kind of bad memory. Mr. Marshal was in a lot of a hurry last night, I think he had a break later, after the meeting. But, Marshal, we're talking about zones right now. Dear Minister, High Izbo! Indeed, when the zones were created in 1994, these hairs on the head - here I will appeal to the previous speaker - were probably with everyone else. Zones had an essential objective: to help regions where there was high unemployment and create modern jobs. At the time there was no capital in Poland, at least that was what it was said, and foreign capital had to be imported. To be honest, when it comes to the first zone that was created in Mielec, on my territory, or later another one in Tarnobrzeg, they did their job. This area developed quite strongly, and it was a poor area, affected by high unemployment, and there was poverty. It used to be the Central Industrial District. Today, the zones have already lost their reputation. By introducing a new formula for functioning, supporting entrepreneurs, as the Minister said, the whole country, as it was said beautifully, could be an economic zone. This assessment is not objective because we no longer have comparative periods. Since the middle of last year, new rules have been in place, while zones after this already extended until 2020 and later until 2026 have a tendency to expire. The question I'd like to ask is, what's going to happen next with this area? Many areas have been urbanised, infrastructure has been prepared, and there is not much going on, especially in many sub-zones. This spread, as far as the zones are concerned, concerns the whole country. It is not that the economic zone is located around the location to which the name of this zone indicates. Tarnobrzeg may have its subzones in Szczecin, Wrocław, there are such cases. What's going on in these subzones? Because I could point out a lot of examples where there's practically nothing going on. I think they've made their point. At the moment, as far as activity is concerned, the activation of these areas located at least east of the Vistula River is apparent problems. On the example of the Przemysl sub-zone, I can say that there is basically nothing going on there. There is nothing going on because - my predecessors have already said it - the investor chooses this place which is attractive to him. And the purpose, the assumptions were different. Zones were supposed to affect the development of just those places where the investor simply doesn't want to come. The zones were supposed to be such an incentive. The government has virtually no influence on what place the investor chooses, which is why at this point the role of zones is limited, and I would even say that it does not meet expectations. So much for me. We will abstain from voting on this information, as there is a great deal of reservations and this is the end of this zone. So we're not gonna drink out of wonder that it's okay because it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor from the Confederate circle. Come on in. [[Game in the O.R.]] And Mrs Lubnauer, my dear friend, please... Hello! Hello, hello, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lubnauer! I just want to escort you home. We do not disturb each other because Mr. Dziambor has the right to a full, reasonable, calm and undisturbed speech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u345	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am slightly disappointed that Mrs Lubnauer did not want to hear what I have to say, but she has now been forced to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about these zones in a pretty specific way. I have to go back a little bit in time, just like in the case of those zones that are a relic of the past. It was 2005, and I was graduating at the time. The situation was that most of my peers in the left hand received a diploma, and in the right hand they had already held a ticket to Manchester. As a result of these actions, we have been completely trained from intelligence, from educated people and from people who had some specific manual ability that could lead to our country flourishing and developing at a huge rate. Unfortunately, we did not have an offer for these people. Things have changed now. So much has changed that we have this big business here, unfortunately foreign. I regret that it has not yet been possible to create Polish business at such a level as to compete specifically with foreign companies, but this is the law of the free market. Unfortunately, we're not ready for this yet. We have led to a situation in which these zones have simply been used as an additional opportunity to bear even less operating costs, although already then and all the time we were and we are a country of cheap labour for large international corporations. Worse, that not only are we a country of cheap labour, we are still grateful and happy that these corporations operate in our country, and they operate under such conditions. So this is a double to make the rules of the game unfortunately uneven. This inequality has led us to function in a world like this at this very moment. Today we need to be completely honest about this: these zones have led to a situation where only 23% there is Polish business, the real Polish business. Therefore, if we are talking from a position of non-free market, extremely libertarian, my, closer to my heart, only from the point of view of a Pole who cares about Polish business, about the development of Polish industry, these zones must be said, unfortunately failed. Unfortunately, it is also necessary to say that propaganda very often fails, as one hears about such things, that here, for example. Mercedes will open his factory with us, great success, such a company, such a company will build cars with us, and a small print: because we gave them almost 20 million euros to move here. Unfortunately, we have to talk about these things honestly. As far as such zones are concerned, we should create healthy competition. I hope this ends, I'm glad it's over, and I'm glad we're starting to talk about it as something that curls up, which is past tense. However, for the future, ladies and gentlemen, let us create such a zone in Poland, let Poland be a competitive country, so incredibly competitive on the international stage, for the whole of Europe. Let us have low and simple taxes, let entrepreneurs, let big companies, let big corporations from all over the world know that in Poland business is getting the most comfortable, the easiest and cost of living employees are the lowest in our country, because that's what this is about. Then we will never have a problem with unemployment and then we will never have a problem draining our society from people who can develop it. This is what I wish you, and this is what I wish you first and foremost for Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u346	Thank you very much. There are 59 seconds left for Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, but as I know you, we will still remember your speech for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I was in the Seym 30 years ago, I demanded that there be one economic zone in Poland: the border around this building, i.e. outside the economic zone, and the Members inside pay taxes, one big economic zone covering the whole of Poland. We do not want any privileges for foreign entrepreneurs, nor for domestic, nor for anyone, nor for companies, nor for cooperatives. Everyone should have equal rights, for example. If you're worried that foreign companies are working on taxes abroad, then eliminating income taxes would make them unthinkable, wouldn't it? I can tell you how you're up to it, and I'm sure you know that. And just the existence of income taxes makes big companies mess with them, and a simple man can't. That's why you should support us, that we want to eliminate income taxes, because they're the only reason all these smart guys do great things, and they can't do that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u348	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as promised by the principal order of Marshal Witek, I am declaring a time-out. 17.50. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 30 hours 17 min 50]] [[Resume the session.]] We continue to consider item 20 of the agenda. Let's begin with the questions. The first person to come forward is Mr Przemysław Koperski from the parliamentary club Left. You're welcome. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. Thank you very much, Marshal. Something that left, I see, curls up. Mr Robert Obaz, the parliamentary club... Oh, are you Marek Rutka? Mr President, you are welcome to join us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u349	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr President, just like everyone else, one minute. Sure. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Pomorskie Voivodship there are two economic zones - polska and pomorskie. From the point of view of the functioning of economic zones in Pomorskie voivodship, the S6 road connecting Gdynia with Słupsk is crucial. Yesterday, there was news about the resignation from the construction of the section between Lębork and Słupsk. Although the government spokesperson soon discredited this information, he did not give any details. My question concerns the integral connection between Gdynia Port and the S6 route, which is called. Red road. A few days before the second round of the presidential election, Gdynia's councilmen threatened to abandon the road construction if the election was not won by the candidate Andrzej Duda. In connection with Andrew Duda's win, I have a question: When will the red road arise? At the same time, I would like to assure you that the working name: the red road comes from the colour set out in the plans, and therefore there is no need to include its decounization law. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u350	Some nostalgia woke up. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The zones were formed several years ago. They were supposed to be an impulse for the development of the regions. Mostly they've become assemblers. The crisis has most shown how dependent our economy is on the international economy - we do not produce ourselves, we are just one big assembly plant. The zones were intended to contribute to the implementation of new technologies, innovation. This noble idea, however, has been lost. Today, economic zones are just tax enclaves, a large, often international business exempt from CIT. The parcels are purchased at preferential prices and the workers are often used. I would therefore like to ask you the question: How do you intend to fight the pathologies that have been embedded in the economic zones over the years? It can be seen with the naked eye (The Bell) that these zones have long ceased to be the answer to the problems of the regions. Just one more sentence. The report has 66 pages, we have half a page of the summary. Are these reports, and this is another report that we read - half a page plus three graphs... The conclusions that are at the end are to testify to what you are proposing, and unfortunately they are nowhere to be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! The ministers aren't here. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There's the minister. Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Print no. 397 contains a table showing leading investors in special economic zones in Poland. On the 15 presented they are all international companies with headquarters abroad. I would like to ask you to clarify the success of the zones in terms of the general wording on the impact of zones on the economic development of the region, the transfer of technologies developed within the framework of the functioning of the zones in our country, and the stability of employment and at least the average earnings in enterprises in these zones. It may turn out that the wealth of large foreign companies is in fact a cancer that feeds on the energy of the Polish self-government and the Polish employee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my constituency, in Częstochowa, there is a Katowice Special Economic Zone and a special economic zone of Euro-Park Mielec. So far, there has been no problem, but after the law we talked about, of 10 May 2018, which among others. In accordance with the new legal regulations, a potential investor can obtain decisions only in Katowice, which has the right to do so under the law, while when he was interested in buying in parts that are subject to Euro-Park Mielec, all matters relating to the tender must be organized and handled in Mielec. This reduces the attractiveness of investors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The president's trying to mediate. Question: "Is the Minister going to help solve this problem in mediation?" System regulation would be best, because it is not the only place in our country where such a problem exists.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government why he did not use this report by the NIK to reflect on the further activities of the zones and not submit a proposal, the information prepared for the Sejm from this report. How can the Minister comment on these shortcomings as shown in the Ministry's supervision over the activities of the zones? And to Mr Zandberg... You're an MP, you're smiling. Question? ...his question to the liberals of the Civic Coalition. The States Party together has shown itself to be the largest liberalism, paying out several hundred thousand zlotys to its members instead of the declared three averages. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u358	I have a proposal that we shouldn't look in our wallets because we're not going to check which of our fellow Members was making... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But Mr. Zandberg said... But we're talking about public... Mr. Tadeusz Tomaszewski. Sir, I have a request for you. Are you comfortable sitting down? Then think about what you're saying. Mr Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. The marshal's not from commenting, Mr. Marshal. I'm sure she's not from commenting on the Marshal of the Messenger. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister... But it works both ways. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Would you like to... No. ...to introduce the same principle as you and Marshal Terletsky? Do you notice that there are always two sides: the marshal and the same club? Marshal... Have some thought, please. You're welcome, sir. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! I think that despite these comments, which concern the functioning of special economic zones, many investors have largely contributed to the local environment, for example, good governance practices, also in terms of raising the local value of workers' work with good pay, there are also examples of good cooperation with the local environment as regards the vocational education system or, also, higher education. This report does not show due to the deadline for submitting these tax exemptions for 2019. Does the Minister already have data on the scale of tax exemptions for 2019? Secondly, this report does not refer to exemptions concerning income tax on persons... property tax (Book) and land which belong to local governments. Are you monitoring this case? And one last question. As the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of State Assets, expanding his empire, also has the right to report one representative to supervisory boards in these zones, I would kindly ask for the list of persons posted by the Minister of State Assets to all these companies in special zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the economic zones have already fulfilled their role and it can be said that today they no longer conform to the economic reality of Europe and Poland. A lot of money was invested there. My question concerns the following question. According to this report, there are still 8,000 left. ha, which are free areas but are within the functioning economic zones. Of course, we have reservations that foreign partners are mostly in these zones, but the question is: Isn't the government sometimes planning a programme to activate these areas, well prepared and armed, for Polish small and medium-sized enterprises? So whether you are planning (the bell) for this year or next year funds to promote investment by Polish entities on these 8 000. ha, which remains to be developed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u362	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I was surprised to read this information on special economic zones, because there is nothing in it. In addition to the fact that in recent years they cost us more than PLN 2.5 billion as tax exemptions, which is a significant amount. And I am curious what we receive in return as a society and as a Poland. So I have concrete questions: What is the evidence for this and on what scale do special economic zones actually reduce territorial inequalities in Poland? 'Cause it's hard to say in any of them, 'cause there's no such thing in this report. How do they support and support innovation in companies at all? Do you have data for this? How do you measure it? What happened now, in a coronavirus situation? Were there exemptions in special economic zones, and on what scale? Is there any way you're going to oblige these companies to give it to the public (the bell), which put it in it? Finally, the final question is, do you really intend to maintain this fiction until 2026? I think it's time for her to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, very often government dignitaries come to Przemyśl, even the Prime Minister, promise, say: sustainable development you have, economic zone, here something will happen. Well, for the last four years, nothing's happened. Maybe I don't know that, which is why I have a question: Is there an investor in this economic zone in recent years and invested? That's where the big money was put into the infrastructure. And the question -- I might say it here -- what's next with these areas, because in 2026, we're going to run out of time in which the economic zones can function. What's next with the armed areas? Often local authorities invested in infrastructure, often the entities that manage these zones. What's gonna happen next? What is the (Bingle) perspective of the government's ideas for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u366	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof July from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The dispute over the special economic zones that are taking place in this Chamber is, in fact, unfounded and pointless. Today it is easy to criticize all of this, but you have forgotten that today we are operating in a completely different reality, a reality resulting from the strategy of responsible development of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. For it is from this strategy that the law passed in the previous term of the Sejm, the law on the promotion of new investments, has grown. This law also gives tasks to special economic zones where special zones find themselves perfectly, for example by issuing decisions on support for entrepreneurs. Today, this question is really about economic development. There's a question. also about the investment attractiveness of the land. I was gonna suggest... There are many questions of investors from different sides about whether the Polish government is prepared for large investments in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask whether it is possible to create a strategic resource of investment areas and facilitate legislation so that investment areas can be made ready to be taken over by new investors as soon as possible. I think these are the right questions. As far as the special economic zones are concerned, they have certainly played an important role in the past because they were the creator of new jobs, especially in those areas that were subject to high structural unemployment. Today, their role has been fulfilled. In this sense, which I asked about, special economic zones could still be a very active partner, for example in the case of an investment that could be carried out in the Świętokrzyskie voivodship. This is the biggest investment area... Mr President, we are moving slowly to the end. ...in Europe - 600 ha after the nearest airport in Obice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u369	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Reading this report, but also listening to the Minister, I wiped my eyes out of amazement, for example. I read that the operating conditions of special economic zones have changed over time. It's confusing two dimensions, often occurring, as if someone said: in length and width, in fact, time and space. But I got a little light when I continued reading, because it turns out that you guys are still measuring the efficiency of the zones: per hectare. Employment, new jobs - per hectare, investment expenditure - per hectare. I am wiping my eyes, especially since the Minister, today Prime Minister Emilewicz promised to find other measures of efficiency. Therefore, I have a rather perverse question to the Minister: How many tons of innovation have generated [[♪ The bell ♪]] special economic zones in Poland and how many electric wheelbarrows does it take to dispel these innovations in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] One acres.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to what we can read, 77% companies in the zone come from abroad. Therefore, I have a specific question: What is the national membership of workers in this area? How many percent of the workers in the zone are foreigners? The point is that it does not turn out that foreign companies conduct business in Poland for free, profit abroad, and foreigners, working, also pay abroad. So that it does not turn out that instead of special economic zones we have on the territory of the Republic of Poland just a simple duty-free zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u373	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The fact that special economic zones are already so anachronistic that they should stop functioning as soon as possible, because the issue of workers' rights in these zones really leaves a lot to be desired, we have already heard. I would like to ask a question about the direct Gliwice economic zone, because there was also such a phenomenon that the Opel factory, which changed its owner... It turned out that, on this occasion, factory workers must be fired and employed under new conditions, of course not better. To my question to the government that I asked in the interpellation, the answer was this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Actually, the government washes hands on this. Minister! If that is the case, if the government can't do absolutely nothing in such cases to protect its employees, then there's probably the best evidence that the time for special economic zones has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister what is the strategic objective of the existence of zones from the point of view of the development of the Polish economy. Is this scientific and technical development, or is it the development of regions? After all, some of the operating zones operate in powiats, which are well developed. I would also like to ask if there have been studies on the contribution of zones to the scientific and technical development of Polish regions. When the Minister of State Assets was appointed, in each zone you increased the number of persons who function on the supervisory boards. I would like to ask how many people today work and work on the supervisory boards of companies that own economic zones. How much is that on a national scale? I would kindly ask the Minister to prepare this reply in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to receive information about the functioning of zones in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. We invite Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The information presented does not provide a sufficient analysis of how these zones contributed to the inflow of capital, how much this capital came through the zones and finally how much it cost us. Because it is important to remember that there are also environmental costs that are not quite counted, so these analyses are often not done. We know that all countries are setting preferences in terms of capital inflow, which is normal. Our country, we, too, must create conditions that encourage this, but we must have a policy in this area in order to create conditions for selected directions of investment. The point is that if (the bell) covers the whole, then there are no preferences, there are no inspirations for specific directions of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Katowice Special Economic Zone is 390 enterprises, 80,000. jobs, 36 billion PLN, number one in Poland, number two in Europe. It is worth recalling that the zone was established 24 years ago by the government of Cimoszewicz. This zone is expanding all the time. A part of the municipality of Jasienica was added last year. I wanted to find out what the investment plans are, how many jobs will be created in this special Jasienice Low-Emission Economic Zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u380	Thank you very much. All these questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Olga Semeniuk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, thank you very much for a number of questions. I was amazed to hear them because I never once heard the slogan: Polish Investment Zone. It is worrying, ladies and gentlemen, that you are trying to make a relic of special economic zones - with new jobs, with new innovative projects, with stability in terms of jobs. I was astonished to hear Mr Zandberg, who referred to my statement on German capital. Mr President, we can also talk about American capital. We have 100 planned investments and 100 signed permissions to cooperate with companies whose main capital is US capital. This is 7 billion PLN in Poland and over 10,000 PLN. jobs. I think it's amazing that all the workers of special economic zones, both domestic and foreign, are also wiping their eyes out, because you really are here and now trying to make it a historical relic. Fortunately, the rule of law and justice does not allow such a situation. I will now give you some information because it seems that you are up to date with the media. Today, Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz and I had a summary of the 2 years of functioning of the Polish Investment Zone. I wanted to tell you that what we are talking about today, the 2019 report, concerns a law that is extinguished. Polish Investment Zone, the Act on the Polish Investment Zone today celebrates its second birthday. And some facts: 556 investors, declared investments for a total amount of PLN 25 billion, 11 thousand. jobs, numerous investments in Eastern Poland and in medium-sized cities, which lose socio-economic functions. This is a balance sheet of 2 years of operation of the Polish Investment Zone. Over 70% These companies are Polish capital, ladies and gentlemen. Today you say that foreign capital is leading. I'm sorry to hear that. We as the Ministry of Development do not slow down the pace. We are implementing and preparing further changes that you can also read about today. They're supposed to be investment facilitations. The Ministry of Development is working on a revision of the PSI Act, which will aim to change the quality criteria so as to focus, centralise attention on these poorer regions, medium-sized cities, smaller cities, issues related to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Only in 2020 Eastern Poland attracted a total of 41 investments for a total amount of PLN 700 million. Mr Zandberg compares this with the success method - extraordinary. Only since the beginning of 2020, 139 investment decisions worth PLN 4 billion have been issued under the PSI, with the simultaneous declaration that 2348 new jobs will be created. Mrs Beyat asked how the coronavirus affected cooperation and investment in special economic zones. It has so affected that the decrease concerns only the number of decisions that move investment over time, but does not lead to a waiver of these investments. This also shows that Poland is a very good terrain, land. And those acres you mentioned, the acres... I do not know what this country's fear of investing in foreign capital results from. Germany is not the only country I've mentioned to you. I would also like to meet with you about what other foreign capital they are investing in Poland. Mrs Nykiel, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, said that the Ministry of Development, or rather Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, does not exercise substantive control over special economic zones. Well, it's hard to control something that's at the point of extinction. Following this, a law on the Polish Investment Zone was created. But in response to Mrs Nykiel's problems and fear, I wanted to make a follow-up recommendation to the Ministry of Development, which has been made. Ensure a coherent system for assessing the performance of special economic zones on the basis of adequate, measurable and verifiable indicators for achieving objectives and tasks. At present, such a system is a plan for the development of investment, its annual verification. The plans shall be drawn up by the economic zones and submitted for approval by the Ministry of Development. At this point in time, the annual report of each business area shall also include a summary in the system relevant to the investment development plans, which allows for a transparent verification of the achievement of the objectives pursued. Ensure a coherent system of ownership supervision of companies managing special economic zones, taking into account a substantive assessment of the quality of management. Ladies and gentlemen, this is currently the task of the Ministry of State Assets, where work is being carried out in this area. The first steps in this area were taken before the transfer of ownership supervision to the Ministry of State Assets. Thirdly, ensuring the smooth conduct of administrative proceedings concerning the conduct of business in zones, as well as the settlement of support from the Zone Fund. In the current system, support decisions are issued by a special (Bell) economic zone... Marshal, may I speak again? Wait a minute. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development Olga Semenik: Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I could still talk long enough to answer your questions. Of course, we will refer to all of them in writing when it comes to wages, hectares, the number of people employed. If you had been thoroughly acquainted with the information about the extinguishing Act on Special Economic Zones, I think you would have more knowledge. If you had also read our commentary on the control of NIK, you would also have more knowledge. And by the way, you'd have the most knowledge if you'd known... But where do you assume that? He's got a lot of nerve. ...that the Polish Investment Zone Act has been in operation for 2 years. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal point?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u382	Thank you very much, Minister. I would have a proposal for the Minister not to yell at Members of Parliament because it doesn't make sense. [[Applause]] As corrected by Adrian Zandberg, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u383	Minister! Hit the table and the scissors will talk. I was talking about the '90s rhetoric, and what we heard was rhetoric from the '90s, rhetoric worthy of a minister from the Union of Freedom. Minister! You're talking about 4 billion investments, but you didn't answer the question of what that means when it comes to tax exemptions, what loss of budget income that means. You didn't answer those basic questions that were raised and that were also in the NIK report. First and basic: What guarantee do we have that these exemptions have a real, real effect, i.e. Unconfirmed? After all, we are dealing with a very simple situation, Minister, in which the entrepreneur will gladly accept tax exemption from you, but that does not mean that if it wasn't, it wouldn't be an investment. So the unanswered prognosis of numbers is the lack of answers to the question about the sense of these tools, these mechanisms. This concerns both the old zones and your new law. And that's a pretty basic problem. And that's that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry, instead of responding to this problem, condemns the High House, seems a little out of place to me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u384	Thank you, sir. I kindly inform you that the Minister has just undertaken to reply in writing. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking of special economic zones, we think, we can already say, by 1994, almost dozens of years behind. If we return to the years in which this law was created and gave some possibilities, we must say that we were in a country in which the market economy was almost not, that a large inflow into Poland of shady capital began at the very beginning. It was about creating certain conditions to tame foreign companies with Poland and show that we can create conditions for management, and to set an example for our emerging business, how companies operate. I've been looking at this for years with quite moderate emotions, and I think that principle has passed the exam. However, special economic zones were a certain element and an inspiration for economic development in Poland. On the one hand, it is true that many jobs have been created, but on the other hand they have given rise to strong incentives in terms of attempts to compete, attempts to continue. Today in these special zones there are many Polish companies, many Polish companies benefit from it. I agree with the opinion that they gave certain priorities and incentives, so at certain crucial moments it is. Today we can say that it is a fading form, comes a new form of the -Polish Investment Zone, and we are watching it develop. But that one gave us a big boost. As we look at our economy from today's point of view, from our position, our economic development, we can say that something could have been spared. I am convinced, however, that we have earned on this as a country, and I am convinced that our economic place in which we are at the moment has been reflected by such moves as special economic zones. Today it's easy to find only negatives, but let's also look at the positives, which, in my opinion, outweigh the negatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u386	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the information submitted. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 21 and 22 of the agenda: Mr Krzysztof Czabański, Chairman of the National Media Council, would like to present the information from print no. 293. There isn't. And it's gonna be a remote performance. Hello, hello? [[The speaker's speech is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u387	Good morning, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Czabanski has the floor. We have often criticized ourselves that, as someone said, someone turned their backs, so please, I suggest you listen to Mr. Czabański. Mr. Chairman, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u389	Good morning again, because I don't know if I've been heard, good morning, Marshal. Thank you for your vote. You received information about the National Media Council, its activities in 2019. This information contains everything (Distortion of receipt) about the activity. In turn, it discusses the status of the National Media Council itself, its competence, the resolution activity of the National Media Council, the formation of personal compositions of boards and supervisory boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency SA, the appointment of directors of field branches of TVP SA, activities in the field of appointment of programme boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency SA. Other resolutions adopted by the National Media Council are also included in this information, and the monitoring activities of the National Media Council are discussed, the response to interventions and correspondence that came in. There are also very detailed business costs. It is all you will find in the annexes, which describe it quite precisely. If the High House has any questions, of course we always serve as an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u390	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Jack the World to provide a justification for the draft resolution from print No 489.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 July, the Committee on Culture and Media considered the annual information, first, the information contained in print No 293, which was presented to us by Krzysztof Czabański, second, the information of the National Council of Radio and Television, the material is in print No 393 and presented by Witold Kołodziejski. After a very turbulent discussion, the committee in the vote recommends that the High House accept both information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u392	In fact, you presented it in a condensed manner. I would like to ask the President of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski to present a document from print no. 393. You're the chairman. Mr. Chairman, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Council of Radiophony and Television, carrying out its statutory reporting obligation, presents a report every year to the Sejm, the Senate and the President on the activity of the office and information on the state of the media market in Poland. These are the documents we have presented to you. These documents are extensive, with more than 300 pages. I also referred them in a condensed form at the meeting of the cultural committee. Here I have 5 minutes for the presentation, so let me just outline the scope of tasks that the National Radio and Television Council is dealing with because, which is extremely important, because most of the questions and discussions that have been conducted, as every year, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, relate to tasks that go beyond the remit of the National Radio and Television Council. So the KRRiT primarily designs, provides expert assistance in the legislative process. And that's what happened last year. We participated in the preparation of implementation projects, amending the Act on Radiophony and Television implementing the Audiovisual Directive, the revised one. This implementation will take place in the coming weeks or months, so I think there will be an opportunity to discuss this in detail. We have also proposed a number of amendments to the present law. We called this set of amendments so-called. Cleaning bill. These are updates of some outdated regulations, as well as ideas to introduce new regulations that really facilitate the development of individual groups operating in the audiovisual market, especially the protection of smaller ones or broadcasters, or cable operators, VOD operators, etc. As far as radio and television issues are concerned, we have announced seven concession proceedings for local digital multiplexes in cities such as Częstochowa, Katowice, Poznań, Rzeszów, Toruń, Tarnów and Warsaw, so these are big cities, metropolises mostly. There are multiplexes of digital radio. On one multiplex there will be 12 broadcasters. We also launched a consultation on the announcement of multiplexes of regional and nationwide digital radios, so we started the process of creating a new perspective for radio broadcasters. There is an opportunity for additional 12 national radio broadcasters to appear. Let me remind you that this is a big change, because we now have three such broadcasters. As far as terrestrial digital television is concerned, we have set a strategic objective that in 2020 we are changing the broadcasting standard from DVB-T to DVB-T2. We enter with technology, HEVC compression, which will allow us to deliver high-resolution emissions on terrestrial television as standard, which will improve quality and not significantly increase the offer of free digital terrestrial TV. We are preparing for announcements for the fifth and sixth television multiplex. As far as subscription and compensation are concerned, this is where the national council divided... The subscription paid... 13 million households registered... There are 13 million households in Poland, 6.5 million are exempt, or 3 million paid. Mr. Marshal, I can't make it all... In any event, this information and much more information is contained in the report. There were complaints. Information about complaints, detailed information on what they were and who they were, is also included in our reporting document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u394	Thank you, Mr President. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first will be the voice of a Member from the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. I invite Mrs Dominika Chorosinska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u395	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present the position of the club on the report of the National Radio and Television Council of its activities in 2019 and on the activities of the National Media Council also for 2019. The National Media Council held nine meetings during the reporting period. She focused on the state of finances of public media: Polish Television, Polish Radio, Polish Press Agency and regional centres. The subject of personal storage of management bodies in public broadcasting companies was also discussed. In accordance with its competences it defined a strategy of joint actions of Polish public media and ensured the reliability of their work. The actions undertaken in 2019 by the National Radio and Television Council have been the achievement of the objectives set out in the regulatory strategy of the National Council for 2017 and 202022 and other tasks. One of the most important tasks before the Council in the previous year was to further support expert work related to the implementation of the revised Audiovisual Media Services Directive, whose implementation by the Member States of the European Union must take place by 19 September. During the reporting year, the National Radio and Television Council held 54 meetings, at which it adopted 400 resolutions, related inter alia. with the conduct of the concession proceedings. In addition, 13 meetings were organised with broadcasters and other media market players. As part of the implementation of its powers in the legislative process, the Council gave an opinion in 2019 on eight draft laws and addressed two regulations it issued to the publication. During the reporting period, the Council also issued a number of decisions concerning new and amended concessions and considered almost 200 notifications for inclusion in the register of television programmes only distributed in the ICT system and distributed programmes. The State budget for the activities of the National Radio and Television Council in 2019 received revenues of over PLN 33 million, of which more than PLN 27 million were revenues from concession fees. In 2019 the chairman of the Council spent more than 60 000. administrative decisions concerning the vast majority of licence cases. In 2019 the Council received more than 30,000. applications from subscribers for subscription arrears. In 2019, the National Council distributed PLN 650 million from subscription receipts and treasury securities worth more than PLN 1 billion for mission missions carried out by public broadcasters. The Council has also cooperated in the implementation of its tasks with a number of international institutions, including: within the structures of the European Union, the Council of Europe or the European Platform of Regulators. Many educational programs were also implemented. The Council also carried out information activities aimed, inter alia, at: promoting media education in cooperation with different national and foreign institutions. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the position expressed by the Committee on Culture and Media and welcomes the actions taken by the National Radio and Television Council as well as the National Media Council. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the Council's report last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u396	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, our colleague's report was very reticent, so I will try to complete it. The information of the National Media Council was adopted in a proportion of 15 Members for, 13 against, and the report of the National Radio and Television Council in a proportion of 16 Members for, 12 against, and 2 abstained. So it is not the committee that recommends the adoption of these documents, but members of the power-holding group. This is not surprising because both institutions faithfully serve the political camp of Law and Justice and do not even pretend to fulfil the roles to which they were called. These debates are becoming less and less meaningful every year, because what is reasonable about the meaning of the National Media Council? At one time, so delirious to me, existed in Poland, there was such a cabaret corpse in Poland. You could use this name and assign it to the National Media Council, only that you once Members, Czabański, Crow and Lichocka, are not funny, they are dangerous. They place leadership positions in the public media once unknown in what way, from whom and why. Oh, I'm sorry. We know one thing for sure. That anyone can be called to these bodies, as long as he's from the PiS or the PiS favors him, and that's the essential criterion. Last year's play of respectable advice in cell phones cost Polish taxpayers more than a million zlotys. Not much, but you could save that million - right away let these nominations go from the street. Nowogrodzka. It's just gonna be okay. The National Radio and Television Council, on the other hand, would love to read the article. 213 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but it does not make sense either. This article begins with the fact that the National Radio and Television Council stands... and stands actually, to stand and stand, but not to uphold freedom of speech, but fraud, not the right to information, but lies, not the public interest, but the interests of the Law and Justice and the officers of this party. And the chief officer of this council, Mr Witold Kolodziejski, cannot explain his ignorance. Mr President, you're a professional, and I always admit that, so I ask you how can you look calmly when public television is destroying people. How can you accept this avalanche of heyte and deception? How can you not be ashamed of the news and TVP Info? Where's your conscience, when you call it. journalists in front of the whole of Poland lead to political murder? How can you live with that, Mr President? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2019 public media received 1,200 million PLN from taxpayers, apart from the subscription, this year, I will remind you, because this is also a continuation of the same fun, 2 billion PLN. President Kurski, I apologize, almost President Kurski, because it is probably not until tomorrow, for the third time, that he will be cast in his chair by Mr Czabański, so President Kurski says that this money is for the theatre. And for the first time, I can agree with the President of Kurski - only not at the Television Theatre, but at the electoral theatre of Law and Justice. PLN 1200 million last year financed two electoral campaigns of Law and Justice, 2 billion of this year largely financed the election campaign of Law and Justice, President Andrzej Duda. Mr President Kołodziejski and High Rado. All of Poland sees, the world sees, the OSCE sees, the National Media Council sees public television turning into an election studio of one ruling party. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The only organ that doesn't see it is the National Radio and Television Council. Because of what I said earlier, we're reporting as a club. The Civic Coalition has two amendments to the committee draft resolution. The first is that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland rejects information from the activities of the Council, and the second is that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland rejects the report of the National Council of Radiophony and Television. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u398	Thank you very much. But, Commissioner, unfortunately, I cannot accept this because the amendments are tabled at second reading, which is either in a moment's time, or when we vote, if there is no objection, in the next... I'd love to, Marshal. I'll be able to do it again. This is a report. But we are very happy to hear from you again. Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus... This is a report, Mr. Marshal, not a reading, and I had an opinion that now... And I have a different opinion. Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna talk about the National Media Council. This is, just to remind you, an unconstitutional body, which is illegal, as even the Constitutional Tribunal has said. The National Media Council, which is now in office, has two tasks: on the one hand, the appointment and cancellation of personal storage facilities, on the other hand, is to ensure that companies fulfil their duties. When we look at how these companies work, like, Polish Radio works when chasing the song Kazik from the 1st place of the list of three hits and accuses Marek Niedźwiecki of manipulating the list, as the so-called. Public television, or de facto party television, under the rule of Mr Kurski, who runs a rude campaign against the opposition, but for President Duda... And look at the statistics of the pluralism of television so-called. public, how many times there are law and justice politicians on the public air and how many are oppositional. If you want to see what it looks like to live, turn on Studio Polska and see how presenters make a slim, and how party agitators run this horrible program, filming a spiral of hatred and manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we do not agree with the National Media Council, which is an unconstitutional body, the Left will not vote in favour of this report. We're just against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To my question, what is the biggest problem of Polish media, during the committee meeting President Kołodziejski answered that the concentration of the cross. The allegations made by his colleague and the opinions of independent experts were simply not answered and ignored. When we tried to talk about the lack of professionalism of people working in public media, Mr Suski praised this with another brilliant thought: What professionalism? After all, Monika Olejnik finished her milking college. The allegations that the public media were only favored by the PiS, President Kołodziejski replied that it was finally normal, and TVP and Polish Radio had to balance commercial stations, above all TVN. Once in Facts and News, it was the same thing, and now it's balance. Only that he forgot to add that public television should fulfil a different role than commercial media and that it is financed from the state budget and a downloaded subscription. Over the years, regretting the level of public media, we have talked about the fact that not enough content, too much pushing, that cultural programs are broadcast too late. Today there is no room for such subtleties. Public media is simply the government media of PiS. And the news is primarily to prove the president's words that those who aren't in the PiS, and those who aren't with the PiS, are treasonous faces and scumbags. An awful propaganda blowing up absurdly. We recently learned that the bus driver who caused the accident was responsible for the presidential candidate. Every day, the public media gets negative heroes into our heads, they have hate sessions that are designed to bind a group of followers. Without any inhibitions they point to the guilty, they tell us what is moral and what is not. Courts are bad, corrupt, so TVP takes their place. Jerzy Baczyński used to write about the tabloid war. Today these words fit well with TVP and Polish Radio. The media is like a parareligious organization, it's a martyr, of course. Jarosław Kaczyński After the loss of his brother, there is a prophet, so it happens that it is also Jarosław Kaczyński, who are the apostles, who are the followers of the PiS. They have their processions, i.e. dances at Rydzyk's or the speeches of politicians from the altar in Częstochowa, have their indulgences, so Martyniuka and disco polo, which they serve to us all the time from public media, also have their relics, the grave of Lech Kaczyński, where Jacek Kurski newly married at the altar in Łagiewniki, the repeat groom, lays flowers. The question should be asked: Is it an antenna or an pulpit? The alliance of the throne with the altar in Poland has been going on for a long time, so why not in the media? Together it is easier to tame impudent feminists who demand their rights, defend Poland against levitation, invent other ideologies, e.g. gender or LGBT to scare them. Prime Minister Morawiecki had dreams of rechristianizing Europe. He's not gonna make it (the bell), so they're gonna rechristianize us in the media. Another task is to disgust the opposition. Mostly from morning to night on TVP Info there is an atmosphere of horror and panic: they will kill unborn children, even old people, by euthanasizing them. The Jews won't have to take our property, because the opposition will give it back to them. From nursery to kindergarten they will sexualize as they do in rotten Europe. On all antennas, isolated incidents and events turn into dangerous pathologies. Rumors are becoming facts. The world, especially Europe and Russia, are plotting over our heads. This is where we have to bow down to Jack Kurski. He's got a lot of political experience, he's been changing the game six times, he's a black PR specialist. Miss, we're going to the end. Some say he's a political gangster and a mercenary, but everyone agrees he's effective. He wanted to be Kaczynski's bullterier and stayed. The public media said they were great... Miss, we're going to the end. Now, now, last sentence. ...and they're his drug. The show's watching millions. With the millions of ratings getting worse, even the national council admits it, but the elections once again succeeded. Public television destroys Poland and Poles. The Left Club will not vote in favour of the reports. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u402	Thank you very much. One minute, 30 seconds, miss. Now I'm gonna give everyone more by 1 minute 30 seconds because there's got to be some honesty. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u403	Aye, aye, Marshal. Thank you, Marshal, for giving me the floor. High Seym! Dear ladies and gentlemen, We come to debate two documents, which basically concern one area of public activity in Poland, very important. This is because we are talking about the area of media activity, i.e. the activities of institutions which are responsible for information, education, as well as entertainment which is provided to recipients, Polish citizens of different ages. The quality of all these elements is extremely important for the quality of public and political life in Poland. There are two documents. The documents are very different. One, comprehensive, not only as regards the number of pages, document, or report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, describes in quite detail the activities of this constitutional body, which is responsible, in principle should be responsible for the entire Polish media market. The second, which is the report on the operation of the public media council, gives the impression that it was created on the knee, gives the impression that it was created with no respect for the audience and readers, first of all for the ladies and gentlemen of the Members. In fact, it resembles the social chronicle of members of public media authorities in the Republic of Poland. We read there that very often members of individual supervisory authorities changed, whether in public radio companies, or especially in the Polish Television, on the main board in Warsaw, but there is no reason why these changes resulted, why these changes occurred and what the benefits were. In the information submitted by the National Media Council, they were not even gracious to inform that these changes, which concerned precisely the Management Board of Polish Television SA, caused a threefold increase in the costs of functioning of this body in 2019. We also learn from the report of the National Radio and Television Council about numerous interventions and complaints that come from citizens, viewers, and which this body deals with. Good. We can find out, among other things. from this document, that on the 31 reminders, which based on these complaints were made by the President, the majority, I would say: the vast majority, is precisely concerned with public television, Polish Television SA, which is today led by P.O. President, and before that, last year, for the whole 12 months, by Jack Kurski. From the information of the National Media Council, we only learn that such complaints are affecting, but there is no longer any information on whether or not the honourable President wishes to bend over these complaints. All we know is that they came in and were concerned with the journalistic integrity of public media journalists. So we are dealing with two documents of the constitutional body. One is a reliable document, albeit still not meeting all the requirements - from the constitutional body's report it would be expected to meet them. It is mentioned that the National Council of Radiophony and Television supervised the campaign before the elections to the European Parliament in public media, but there is no mention of whether or how it supervised the campaign before the elections to the Polish Parliament, which also last year, several months after the elections to the European Parliament, took place. For this reason, the Polish Coalition club cannot support this document. On the second document, the information of the public media council - we are firmly against it, because from the activities of this body, from the report, from the information that has been presented to us, it appears that this five-member body met nine times last year, and the highest budget item in the National Media Council (the bell) is the cost of salaries paid to five members of this body. It's far too little, far too expensive, pointless, unconstitutional. That is why - I do not know if I can, Mr. Marshal - I want to make a proposal for a resolution on the fact that the Sejm rejects the report of the National Media Council. Second reading, sir. He's rejecting it with contempt. Thank you, sir. You took it out of my mouth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u404	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Urbaniak from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Budget expenditure on the National Media Council - I want to focus mainly on it in my speech, as it is simply more controversial - in 2019 it amounted to more than PLN 1 million. We're seeing a dynamic that just grows from year to year. The report we received at the committee meeting is simply up-to-date, formalistic, does not contain relevant information from the point of view of action and the achievement of the objectives of the National Media Council. It's in it, for example. information about honorary patronages, which the National Media Council took on public media awards, because the body is also crawling with the current media policy directed at Woronicz. This is best illustrated by the appointment to the Management Board of TVP in March 2019. Marzena Paczupska, who was to be co-opted there under the pressure of our President Andrzej Duda in exchange for the signing of the subscription compensation bill in 2019. The activities of the National Media Council in recent months confirm the political key to the action of this body. The president, for example. declared that he would sign a bill transferring PLN 2 billion to the public media if Jacek Kurski was called off as President. What's next? As we all know, Mr. Jacek Kurski It was by decision of the National Media Council that he was re-elected to the Management Board of TVP and was entrusted with supervision of information and publicity. What does that have to do with anything? You lost your seat on the board of directors, Mrs. Packusk. The National Media Council is simply a puppet body and its actions have also humiliated the office of the President of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, the most mocked of Poles, because promising changes in television, in fact there were no qualitative changes in any dimension, but only minor personal changes were made. The National Media Council is simply a puppet organ, so we certainly can't support it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u406	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u407	God bless you! Good evening. Izbo Law! Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I don't know if the formal convention would oblige you to do this, but I'll ask you nicely, since we're seeing each other here at such a healthy political distance. Please write to us. Please write to us what you think about the verdicts that were passed in last year's election campaign ordering the regime's television, called to mislead the opponent: public, to undo what she was lying there, to manipulate, to violate... Those judgments are still unenforceable today. Where's the National Media Council? Where is the National Radio and Television Council? Just take a word for it, informally, okay. The Confederacy is asking for it. The marshal will determine whether it is formally valid or not. You know very well that language invention, which saves us in these terrible circumstances of nature and unhappy times, the joke of Poles gives a new nomenclature and this television for the President of Jack Kurski is simply called a whore. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is adequate... Mr President, I have a request. Keep those thoughts and words to yourself. That was a quote, Marshal. Yeah, but you know... It was a quote. As a patented polonist, I issue myself a certificate of linguistic kosherness in this case, Marshal. I have a request for reason. Just reason, sir. I can't hear what you're saying, but I'm listening. I'll turn you off. I turned it off and you'll hear it. I'm just asking you not to use ugly words in the Seym because it doesn't make sense. I'm asking you very kindly. Here you go, I'll turn you on and you can talk. There you go. Thank you very much, Marshal. On the other hand, criticism of those institutions which co-create the propaganda otulina of the current regime of power, the Żolibor group of reconstructions of historical sanation. Criticism from those who, not under the white and red flag, but more often the rainbow - social not the Sanctuary, but the social Eurokochozowa would like to implement us energetically here. This criticism makes you smile. Look who's talking, ladies and gentlemen? I remember the times of President Kwiatkowski, as I remember the President of my unfortunate uncle (the bell) in media called to mislead the public opponent, the media of the regime. It was then, years ago, that scenery was burning for the movie Quo vadis.Thanks to this, as the communal news brings, the election campaign of the SLD was extremely successful, because if the movie scenes burned down, they could cost any amount, right. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is just a bad order, this order in the ether. This is a system to plough from right to left, from top to bottom. That Cheops pyramid in Voronich you're powdering there, you're cultivating this evil system... The Confederation will mostly put it into a bid, allow the nation to carry out its media in this area, leaving, of course, a TV Power, because power must have its own tube. Coming right up to the dot, Marshal. Of course, it is necessary, as I put my friend Protasiewicz here... We're military colleagues from the old regime, right, standing together on the barricades. So I said I should reject, in addition to contempt, those documents that may not be cheeks, but a testimony of pride, nonchalance. And the pride, as you know, is walking before the fall. God bless you! Have a good night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u408	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski from the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 30 Members have spoken, and therefore, in accordance with the old rule, we have had to make sequences since the two terms of office agreed. According to this sequence, Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, Member of the Civic Coalition, has the first vote. I set a minute for everyone. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna say something that maybe isn't popular. We must appreciate the effectiveness of the National Media Council. Before its appointment, unconstitutional, as it already sounded today, as the majority of government acts are unconstitutional, in 2015 Poland ranked 18th in the international ranking of freedom of the media, since 2016 has fallen by 44 positions and now takes 62nd place, the lowest in history. This is a feat, not even a feat, maybe even bigger than getting Andrzej Duda to win the presidential election. Since the head of the board, Krzysztof Czabański, argued when the council was formed that its purpose would be to define strategies for the joint action of Polish public media, I would like to ask whether this strategy is precisely the elimination of freedom in the media, whether this strategy is to turn public media into a propaganda tube of the government, or whether this strategy is to sow hatred, insult and ridicule everyone, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who don't think like President Kaczyński and PiS. If so, you are indeed extremely efficient and are not surprised by the almost threefold increase in expenditure on the salaries of the Management Board of TVP, the flagship of national media, or the 18 million which the company decided to allocate in 2019 to the employee awards. Anyone who watches TV in Poland will admit that these awards were simply due to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u410	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three short questions on the National Media Council, or rather the National Radio and Television Council. The first concerns a matter related to the public radio Pomerania and Kujaw. In two powiats, Lipnowski and Radejowski, the audibility of the signal is clearly impaired, as is apparent from the maps provided in the report of the National Radio and Television Council. I would ask for written information, as in the other two points, about when this problem will be resolved. The second question concerns the programme Telemetry Poland, its costs and its intended purpose, especially in the context of the fact that there is a canon or telemetric standard on the market. The idea of funding from taxpayers' money telemetric program only to satisfy the curiosity of decision-makers (the bell) or to provide public television with some argument in negotiations with media houses seems to me highly questionable. Finally, if possible, the point - and the request for a written reply - concerns media pluralism and the definition of top four and top eight in the report of the National Radio and Television Council. I would ask for a methodological basis, because, apparently, we are about to have a battle for the so-called. media recolonization, and you are introducing a new analytical category of top four that is supposedly 50% unknown in Polish legislation. market and top eight - 70% the market. Meanwhile, in Telecommunications Law, and in the Consumer and Competition Law, there is a category of dominant position and there are also figures, sizes - I mean 40% as regards the dominant position. Why this methodology, and why are you using it? Thank you very much. Sorry about the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS, today practically absent, with the help of two ladies from the Platform, gave 2 billion to TVP this year, to public media through the issue of treasury securities. What? He made a mistake. The same mechanism based on the issue of treasury securities was applied in 2019, introducing compensation for lost in 2018 and 2019 due to the exemption of subscription fees. The public media then received 1260 million from the budget. And now I have three questions. First: How did the public media liquidate these Treasury securities, which is what happened to them, how they were sold? Two: Who bought them? And three: Was it at the price of the issue, or was it a different amount? If so, what was the amount? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u414	Interesting questions. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please, Member, kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u415	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2019, which we are talking about, began with a tragic event, the murder of President Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz. This murder was preceded by a few hundred materials on public television only adversely depicting this character. Hate, the sting led to tragedy. This is what the Polish Television has put in court, but I would like to remind you that this trial has lost, and this is already a final judgment. I want to ask the national council how she reacted, what she did, knowing what was going on on public television. What did that teach you? I don't think anything, because the OSCE report, which deals with the last campaign, talks about cases of xenophobic, homophobic and anti-Semitic intolerance rhetoric. The report by the Journalist Society states that in Poland, as part of the election campaign, public television used lies, misrepresentation, abandonment, language manipulation, visual, invective, language of hatred (the bell), divisions into its own and aliens, and sniffing into minorities. Andrzej Duda had only good materials, Rafał Trzaskowski had only negative materials. It didn't take long to get the results, because the journalists of Onet had already to suspend broadcasting their program, didn't broadcast it live, and to Warsaw's editors of.Facts. Economic Warehouse, somebody came by, drew a swastika, destroyed the equipment, etc., because it was just the editors' mistake. That's what the sting leads to, and that's what the cynical political calculation of people who play with human life leads to. I want to ask the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council: Who will answer for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I would like information on the reasons for the decline in Polish Radio's profitability. In 2019 it recorded a loss of more than 10 million, exactly 10 400 thousand. zł. In comparison with the 2018 profit, reaching 15 300 thousand. PLN gives the difference year to year 26,700,000. Is this due to too little compensation provided by the National Radio and Television Council or, according to you, to your assessment of the reliability of the company's management? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Rado! The presidential election campaign is over, but we all remember more or less what was going on. During this term, I got a hashtag like this on Twitter: What's up with the PiS? That's what I call news because it's known that news isn't from telling us what's going on in the world and what's going on, but what's happening on the street. Novagroda's looking out. We had an election campaign, the first round of the election campaign, and in the first round of the election campaign we had a report from the campaign in such a way that the first 5, 6 minutes were always love and any possible compliments to Andrzej Duda, then there was a snapshot from the existence of other candidates, where for example. our Krzysztof Bosak usually had about 5 seconds and it was either one sentence or no quote at all, then it was 10 to 12 minutes of hatred for Rafał Trzaskowski. It was the news that created him as a candidate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion, whatever's going on out there is just reprehensible. My question is, do you allow your children and grandchildren to see this? [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a few questions for Mr Czabanski, just because we come from one radio family. The chairman of the National Radio and Television Council at the committee meeting admitted that the selection of personal compositions of boards and supervisory boards of public radio and television companies is in breach of the constitutional provisions. Do you, Mr. President of the National Media Council, have a similar opinion? I don't think so, because you ignore the fact that the unconstitutionality of such choices of radio and television boards drew the attention of the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment in December 2016. Years pass, and you're still violating the Constitution with your decisions. Or have you taken any action to bring about an amendment to the provisions of your council? The report signed by you is actually an ordinary calendar. There is no additional information, no explanation, no reason, e.g. why a change has been made as President of Polish Radio or which means that (Dzinek) the council has dealt with the difficult situation in the Radio Kraków. Was she really hard, easy? What did the president of the company do wrong? Does the report submitted to the Sejm have to be so up-to-date? It's like writing an essay with equations. In exceptional circumstances, this work may be outstanding, but your report is only correct and I think it should be substantially improved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all remember very well voted by the PiS 2 billion for propaganda in public media, but we must not forget that art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act of 29 December 1992 on radio and television requires public media to provide parliamentary political parties with an opportunity to express their views on the most important public issues. Hence my particular question. For 4 months as a member of the Left, like the Members of the Left from the Pomeranian Voivodeship, we have not been invited to broadcasts carried out in the Gdańsk branch of Polish Television. On the other hand, representatives of other parliamentary and non-committal groups are invited by the management of the Gdańsk TVP centre. I'm asking for a pass, something, whatever, the reasons for excluding the representatives of the parliamentary club Left from the public broadcast (the bell) of television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u424	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u425	Regreting the state of the public media through the left half of the room is unfortunately marked if not hypocritical, it's some late reflex, because if you didn't eliminate the public media when it was time, you didn't privatize the TV, now don't whine about the fact that it fell into the hands of the wrong competition. That's life. If you didn't want to shut down the TVP loot in time, now is the time. There is indeed a difference of style, he is constantly falling and the standards on TV are actually equal at an intimidating rate down, but you had to calculate this risk. Worse still, these unnecessary state institutions are growing in more unnecessary advice. We already have not only one council, the National Radio and Television Council, but another unnecessary council, the National Media Council. Perhaps we should now set up a third council that will coordinate the activities of both institutions and then another body that will unite them into one. For example, because we consider the existence of the National Media Council unnecessary, the Confederation will vote against this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u427	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to raise the issue of transparency and access to basic information about media activities. Unfortunately, on the web pages with a candle you can look for information about professional experiences of members of supervisory boards and programme boards, as well as information about who has been designated to the program board. On some pages we have some residual information instead of complete financial statements on the activities of companies. Similarly, with the candle, you can look for substantive reports on the activities of the program councils, and yet they take money for it. Unfortunately, there is no such information or it is very residual. And now about what a good change in Radio Gdańsk SA looks like in practice. This is not only the departure of journalists with years of experience, problems with manual control or even mobbing caused by the intervention of the ombudsman and not only to recall examples from the professional professional media portal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. The net loss of Radio Gdańsk in 2019 amounted to over PLN 2 million. This is the first such loss since 2004, when Radio Gdańsk became a legal person, a company. According to Radio Track Kantar Poland listening Radio Gdańsk from December 2018 to May of this year dropped from 8,5% to 5.5%. It is enough to analyze these studies to see that the decline in listening is not only about Radio Gdańsk, but also about many regional radio stations. Finally, the question is: Is this in practice a change, a good change? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I read these reports, I began to wonder what the National Media Council was doing. Probably something, something. I read that report, and I have the same impression that something is doing there. He supports one president who seems to be immortal. This is the second time we've had a church wedding paid for. God forbid we pay twice, which I don't wish for anybody, Mr. Kursk's funeral. But I don't think that's gonna happen, although he's probably gonna be president forever. I would like to ask why on Polish Television, which is a public medium, other groups or other candidates are not shown, but still one group. It's not... That's not true. Two. Two, yes, two, I'm sorry. But that's how we play it, depending on what we need to do. Immortal CEO. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is the imbalance that can be seen in the naked eye dramaticly affecting that one candidate is promoted, especially by the governing camp and others not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u430	Thank you very much, sir. I apologize for your personal attention, but I think the number of church vows by your president of public television is not part of the debate in the Sejm. I think so. Let's leave people's personal lives to their personal lives. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u431	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I would like to think about what we can do for the money of all of us - because money from the budget, and our subscription - find what we cannot find on public television, in general public media. I'm sure we won't find pluralism there. We're not gonna find any journalists there lately either. We can safely say that the others are just cameramen. We will not find the truth there, but we will find fake news. Ladies and gentlemen, what we won't find, e.g. We won't find the scandal of the current government. We won't hear about Banasi, about Szumowski, we won't hear about Kuchciński's flights. At all, if we hear of the word: a scandal, then we may not know that there is no more PO-PSL government, only that PiS has been in charge for 5 years. What are we gonna find? We'll find more or less Korean-style television. With the cult of the individual, with the power, which like angels takes care of the whole society. In general, we'll find unreality. That's the whole thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our national media are very unreal. I would like to ask a question to the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council. Do you guys even watch this TV and the media? 'Cause I feel like I'm not. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Radio and Television Council was established, among others. for the protection of freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest. Meanwhile, this institution seems blind to the aggressive language, which is served almost daily on TVP. Information about basic problems of radio and television does not mention the language of hatred and countering this phenomenon in the media space at any point, and this should include. occupy. I would therefore like to learn about the conclusions of monitoring negative social phenomena related to the presentation in the public media of a discriminatory language based on sex, political views or religions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u434	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Olichwer from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last month, Minister Sasin informed social media that he had asked Polish Post, taking into account exceptional circumstances, to halt the activities related to the downloadability of the RTV subscription. It is clear from the information provided in the report of the National Radio and Television Council that the mandatory fee for radio and television receiver holders is largely ignored by them. For many years we have been discussing in our country whether this fee still makes sense, or whether this relic from the times of the Polish People's Republic should not be abolished. I would therefore ask you to answer: Is the Minister's request to suspend the subscription fee an indication of its liquidation? Has she been consulted with the National Radio and Television Council? Does the National Radio and Television Council share this view? If not, I sincerely urge you to make such a decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm finally gonna take it. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u436	Thank you kindly. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The constitutional task of the National Radio and Television Council is to uphold freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. The National Council also aims to protect media pluralism. And here is the question: How does this apply to the current functioning of public media in the context of national minorities? All reports show that at regional level there is little antenna time for minorities, and at central level it is not at all. Unfortunately, even a few minority programs want to be removed. Such an attempt took place, among others. on TV Białystok, which tried to throw out the programme of the Belarusian minority. Only thanks to social pressures, thanks to the parliamentary interventions, including mine and Adrian Zandberg, the programme still exists, and luckily, because the National Radio and Television Council itself does not carry out its mission in this area. I'm sorry to say that. Will that ever change? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u438	We'll see in the future. At the moment, I would like to ask Mr Michał Krawczyk from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During today's discussion a lot of bitter, critical words fall against the so-called. public media, in particular in relation to the so-called "public media'. public television. I will not repeat these arguments. On the other hand, I would like to ask the majority that governs the National Council of Radio and Television and the Council of National Media, and I would like to ask you directly whether you are simply, in human terms, not ashamed. Well, usually critics of what is seen in the so-called. public television is focused on direct performers of what television shows, and I would like to remind you that there are two institutions, i.e. the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council, responsible for who runs the so-called. public media in Poland, and have tools to make these media account for what they show and what they say. What are you doing with these tools? You're doing absolutely nothing. When the Polish Language Council (the bell) criticizes TVP for the impreciseness of stripes, you do not pay attention to it. When on the day of the death of Paul Adamowicz is broadcast in the news of TVP extremely unreliable material, you state that it does not violate journalistic integrity. You tolerate hats, stings and lies every day. I have one question for you. You can write and present hundreds of pages to us, and one question is, aren't you just ashamed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I think about the future of public media in Poland, I have such a nightmare. I have such a nightmare that after years of extremely abusing public media by the Law and Justice, aggressive propaganda and hate speech for the purposes of subsequent electoral campaigns, people have had enough of all this, power takes over, say, the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Confederation - I said: it is a nightmare - and such a coalition privatizes public media. This would be a terrible scenario for Poland, because let us not forget that alternative commercial media geared to profit, corporate, will not guarantee pluralism in Poland, that they also have their sympathies and interests. If we want media that guarantee pluralism in the electoral campaign, we need real public media and real advice to investigate whether all committees and all candidates have equal opportunities in the public media. Clearly, the current council does not fulfil this role. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will therefore, of course, vote against the report. I have a question: how does it work? You get data from which it is clear that most of the time is devoted to PiS candidates - you have to check whether it was not Trzaskowski, because he actually had a sharp promotion - and what? And what are you doing with the data? You're throwing it in the trash? Are you looking away? How does it even work that with such obvious data, you can just pretend there's pluralism? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u443	That's all right, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There isn't. In the report presented by the national council, note, we read: TVP1 had a balanced offer, provided content of a cultural and entertainment nature... Ha, ha, ha! Yeah, it's a cabaret. ...but at the same time it presented information and comments on current social, political, sporting events as well as education in various fields. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I have a question: Why TVP1, yes, taught and taught further, but hate, why educates compatriots, how to destroy people, why, as part of this balanced offer, she presented candidates of opposition in the elections to the Sejm as traitors, non-Polish people who will represent foreign interests, or why did they cut out fragments of my film in which I quoted, how vulgarly I was insulted by the haters, and perfectly presented them as if they were my words? This is the education in different areas of life? What else must happen (the bell) - after President Adamowicz's tragic death, after the recent shooting of the SLD office with pneumatic weapons, after the anonymity I received, that the alleged sniper would take me off - to understand that TVP1 presents a very questionable cultural and entertainment character? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u444	Thank you very much, madam. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, club... Oh, there's the Cloud. Excuse me, my mistake. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, parliamentary club of the Left. I'm so sorry. It's okay. I love the Platform so much, I just went too fast...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u445	You love me as much as I do. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for President Kołodziejski. You didn't answer my question twice at the cultural committee meeting, so I'm going to ask it again, publicly. Do you think that the president of public television is meeting with the president of the political party either in the Sejm or at the election evening, okay? As Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, do you accept this? I hope that up to three times the charm and I will get this answer, but if you have a problem with it, I have a proposition for you: close your eyes and imagine the situation - and you also - that the PiS is not in charge and there are no politicians of Law and Justice on the public television board. In such a situation, if the president of public television were to be at the electoral evening of the ruling party or come to the Sejm [[♪ The bell ♪]] You wouldn't react to the president of the ruling party, would you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u446	I don't mean to be mean, but he wouldn't react because he wouldn't be head of the National Radio and Television Council. Ha, ha, ha! Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. There isn't. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the National Radio and Television Council. Didn't you feel the need for health care, economy, workers, employees, entrepreneurs because of such a common sense of decency and such a common sense of solidarity with your countrymen and countrymen? I understand that this question is rhetorical. So since you haven't given up that $2 billion and you probably don't feel like giving it up, since Andrzej Duda's election campaign is over, couldn't you do something good with the rest of the money and put it into culture, education? It has been implemented since the closing of the school program School with TVP. The idea itself was very good, you can imagine a capital educational program that would complement teaching. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, it was carried out as aggressively as political propaganda is on TVP. It is only a pity for teachers who were wrongly mocked because there was no whole tooling to which the funds of these 2 billion should go. I'm almost done. It is not known what the situation will be since September, whether schools will work remotely or not. Question: "Do you prepare a solid educational program that could teach Polish, English, chemistry, nature, climate change and a whole range of others?" Are you working on it? What kind of measures do you provide for this? What is the action plan in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u448	Thank you. Nor Mr Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. It didn't work. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u449	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of the presidents! I have a question for you: Do you really feel embarrassed and embarrassed by the fact that you authorize an institution of public media that doesn't realize the values that should be close to you, such values as neighborly love. After all, respect your neighbor as yourself is perhaps something that is the foundation of your worldview. Why do you authorize an institution that is based on hatred, on the sting of one another, on manipulation? Are you really not able to believe that the Christian values that are your foundation... Could they prevent you from achieving your political goals? More faith, gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Put your Christian values into practice, not merely demanding them from others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u450	Because Mr Artur Łącki made a self-sacrifice... Ha, ha, ha! ...we will now propose the voice of Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The nation doesn't like national media very much. Some little patriotic nation of ours. I quote the report of the National Radio and Television Council for 2019: National public radio programmes have seen declines in popularity, especially clearly in the last 3 years. End of quote. And then the tables from page 282: the range of the day-to-day listening of the Program 1 Polish Radio - a decrease, program 2 - a decrease, program 3 - a decrease. Percentage average share of listening time: Program 1 of Polish Radio - decrease, program 2 - decrease, program 3 - decrease. I understand that out of rage at an ungrateful nation who doesn't want to listen to national radio, you've killed Three. So how much of this 2 billion will go into rescue operations, and how much will it take to pay the board members and the propaganda stars? As a representative of the Left, I regret that Comrade Bloody Maciek is an amateur with you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u452	That's interesting. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask a question to the National Media Council, but my mind protested violently, so I won't do it. On the other hand, the National Radio and Television Council is a constitutional body and I would like to say three things for the future. At three levels: ethical, legislative and economic. First of all, conscience. I know that the words for the letter "PiS" are no longer known: not the word "solidarity," not the word "service," not the more "summary." And you, unfortunately, agree with the PiS. Unfortunately, the ethical dimension does not give in to any, I would say, normal assessment. As far as the economic level is concerned, I am wondering how you will account for future tasks that you have not done. You are taking money from taxpayers and, in fact, I hope that for the entire period of your work you will return the funds you have collected, together with interest, because you have not carried out the tasks that are before the constitutional authority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is due to the legislative dimension, the third one I wanted to say about, namely that they are enshrined in the law and in the constitution of your tasks, the tasks of the state as members of the National Radio and Television Council. You have not performed these tasks, so basically you are illegally taking funds for your own and for your families, which may have to pay in the future for your irresponsible actions. Freedom of speech in Poland suffers because the state cannot defend this freedom at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u454	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Maybe my questions will allow you to say something positive. I don't think you're gonna do it now because the questions are pretty detailed, but there's a request for a written answer. First of all, Art. 26 Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering states that public broadcasting and television units enable public benefit organisations to inform free of charge about their activities. The case concerns almost 9,000. public benefit organisations - a very important element in building civil society. The question is: Is it possible to inform in these units? Second, Art. 20b, or important events due to the high public interest, is mainly about sport, the Olympic Games, football, the Champions League and the UEFA Cup. Is public television covered by broadcasting rights [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the next few years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u456	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Very reluctantly, because since the uprising somehow I have no sentiment for the National Media Council, because I think it is an institution that should not arise at all, and the mode of its appointment itself is reprehensible, and the activity is even worse, but I will ask. I would like to ask Mr Czabański to present to me, in writing, the arguments for which he intends to appoint President Jack Kurski as President of TV for the third time in a row in this one term. They're calling it off. They're calling it off. They're calling it off. They're calling it off. They suspend - they join - and they call again. However, I want to know these arguments. I am terribly sorry, Mr President, but this is such a famous figure, and even more so lately, it would be nice to know why this is a position assigned to this one, the only person forever. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Kaczyński said you have to have Kurski on your side.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The calculations show that in 2019 public television received PLN 525 from the budget for one non-subscription household. In this and in the following years the difference between the subscription compensation and the grant amount will be almost PLN 1.5 billion. In 2019 it was PLN 670 million. This is the amount of aid for economic activities requiring the consent of the European Union. Moreover, it is an amount arbitraryly taken from all Poles, except the obligation arising from the payment of the subscription, against the will of at least half of the population. My constituents ask: Why should half of Poles agree to non-legal taxation for party television? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would kindly ask for an answer in writing on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u460	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Hartwich from the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u461	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to mention a few epithets by which the Polish Television speaks of me: the new star flashed full of glow, a public ejaculation of its thoughts. I hope the presidents aren't talking, they're listening. She should never sit in the Sejm and hang her laundry on the balconies of the Sejm for several dozen days. No, that's not true. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus is here. It was Mrs. Joanna who was washing all our things. Is that you? And I hung it on my balcony. Exactly. I must also mention people with disabilities, because public television called us all adventurers. You're... Television Poland is today the place of the greatest propaganda, according to the Polish People's Republic. It's barbaric television, hateful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you a short question: When will you apologize for your disgraceful behavior? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u462	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u463	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! What will we find in the report presented on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council in the annex on the award or extension of radio concessions? Diocese list. We have dioceses: Warminski, Białystok, Gdansk, Legnica, Płock. I wanted to ask why. What did it decide? Did the word Diocese or religious character decide? In the same way, on the following pages, where we are talking about covering the country's surface with the scope of a given program, we will find as many as three cards devoted to programmes on the subject of only and exclusively religious subjects. Not only Radio Maryja, but also Radio Plus and the others. Again, the question was, What was the direction? Why? Is this still a secular institution in a secular country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u464	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Franciszek Sterczewski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u465	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My friend is an actor. He recently got an offer to work in one of the TVP productions. He sent me the contract he received to sign. Let me read some of her fragments. The actor undertakes that: he will not carry out electoral attacks for any party or organisation involved in political activities, he will not present his position on political matters in the media or social networks, he will take care of the good name of TVP SA. And the PiS would like to add. In any case, I don't think it's enough for you to censor the TVP dezinfo, so you decided to interfere with the lives of public media workers. You encouraged TikTok so much, and now you're afraid of what people make available on their profiles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Constitution clearly states that everyone is given the freedom to express their views, therefore: hands off the profiles of Poles and Poles on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Long live free social media. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u466	Thank you very much, sir. We will ask Mr Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council, to answer questions and answer everything that has happened in this Chamber. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. There'll be a connection. [[The statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! Thank you, High House. I would like to remind you that this item discusses the activities of the National Media Council in 2019. When it comes to treating this point directly, I may have overlooked something, but I don't think there were any questions about this point. What do you mean, no? I asked. There were rhetorical figures and opinions about very different things. Therefore, if you will allow me, I will only make two comments. One is that the National Media Council, contrary to some statements that have also been made at today's session of the Sejm, is a constitutional body. It was set up by law and by the Constitutional Tribunal in no way and under no circumstances undermines the legality of the National Media Council. This is an important statement, because there was a breach from some Members on this matter. The second point is perhaps less fundamental. Well, Mrs Katarasińska was worried that a name would have to be found for the National Media Council. You've been looking among the names of cabarets and other bands of this kind. I wanted to tell the Member not to worry. The National Media Council is popularly called Ramon. That's a pretty name. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. What was that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u468	Thank you very much, sir. You have heard the answers to your questions, to the issues that have been raised. I think the President has satisfied your curiosity with great craftsmanship. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That was quick. Yeah, that's great. Objection! I don't know why you're laughing because there's nothing malicious about it. I invite the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski. I'll be honest: I'll listen to your answer with curiosity. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Maybe he'll beat it. Ha, ha, ha! There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u469	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I will also address questions addressed to the National Council and on the tasks of the National Council, because I will agree with Mr Czabanski that the majority of the votes expressed did not contain questions, but was an opinion on one sender who is present on the Polish market. It is, of course, a public broadcaster. Government. The National Council has not even elected public media boards since last term, so I thought that such questions in the context of the report would no longer be raised. We are not involved in the selection of boards and the settlement of public media in this way. In addition, Mr Czabański stressed the constitutionality of the media council. I said that the Constitutional Tribunal on the subject of the previous law ruled that the national council should be an important element on this path, through the choice of public media authorities, and did not comment on the legality or illegality of the National Media Council. I don't speak on this, either. I don't have that basis. The Court has never spoken on this issue. By the way, I believe that we really should be an important link, preferably a final link, in the process of approving such elections. Mr. Czabanski needs to be told. Can I continue? There you go, Mr. Chairman. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: As far as questions are concerned, of course, there were many questions about pluralism here. But, as I understand it, you have focused on pluralism in public media, in particular on public television, not on market pluralism, and this is a task or constitutional challenge for the National Radio and Television Council. Against the background of other countries in Poland, this market looks very good. Let me remind you that we have three large TV groups. This market is divided into roughly three parts. Other independent broadcasters gain a certain position, so the pluralism of the sources of information is indeed present, as you can see how we will see the structure of the audience and the coverage of the news stations, as we compare TVN24, TVP Info and Polsat News, on average TVP Info watched, and during the campaign, 1300 thousand. people, like TVN, much less Polsat News. I have the impression that you are in this group because you are only talking about public service broadcasting programmes, also in the context of the distribution of compensation. With all this budget - 2 billion - public television - the TV budget of the Information Agency, i.e. all information programmes and most of them - is 130 million. That's the scale we're talking about. This is by way of questioning the purpose of allocating funds to public media for compensation. But I would like to remind you that last year, public television received 1,200 million in compensation, and mostly it went to other tasks, also to provide a license for the Euro and the Olympics. I'm answering that question here, by the way. As far as I know, yes, they're guaranteed. On the other hand, the answer to this question is not part of the tasks of the National Radio Council, so I may be imprecise here. As far as the issue of the PiK radio, the Pomerania and Kujaw radio is concerned, I will check, but it would be good if there was such a notification, because before I checked with the National Council, such a notification of lack of coverage was not affected. We can fill in, light up these areas if we have information about the lack of reception. As far as the Polish Telemetry Programme is concerned, I would also disagree with the fact that existing research is sufficient. It is at the request of the market, mainly the parties to advertisers, media houses, that new research on new technologies and new media consumption is carried out and is necessary simply. The national council does so in full consensus (the bell) with the market. At least we're trying to make a deal like this... Is this my time, Marshal? Yes, of course. Yeah, there's a new rule book now. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Good. Top four and top eight is the methodology recommended by the European Commission. It's nothing new, nothing made up by us. As far as anti-Semitism and OSCE are concerned, this is an issue that I explained with the OSCE mission in Poland. I asked you what materials it was about. This is about the material we're investigating due to Marshal Borusewicz's complaint concerning the reprivatization and return of property free of charge, i.e. Act 447. The President of Warsaw has spoken on several occasions on this issue, and this also involved a question about reprivatization issues. So this is a sensitive subject. We are investigating this, but this does not directly concern discrimination on grounds of race or nationality. Of course, we'll investigate. This is a complaint by Marshal Borusewicz and this is what the report or position of the OSCE committee refers to, specifically, the situation. As for the falling profitability of Polish Radio - it does not fall. Polish Radio generated profits last year. As far as monitoring discrimination is concerned, this is Article. 18 Radio and TV Act. This is broadly described in the section on complaints. As for Minister Sasin's request to suspend his subscription. We made a statement. We take this as a request to abstain from the execution of debts resulting from the failure to pay the subscription at the time of the pandemic. There is no and we do not treat it... we reminded you that there is a licence law that imposes such an obligation on everyone, and if this obligation is not fulfilled, then then there may be problems related to debt and the execution carried out by the tax offices, which we did not begin to implement. As regards the Bialystok radio and the Belarusian minority, I am very pleased that you have intervened in this matter, but it is not entirely that the national council has done nothing here. Firstly, we have intervened, and secondly, we are fully funding this programme. As for the request or the hope of Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, it is up to three times the charm. Unfortunately, I will not meet these hopes, because this does not entirely apply to the tasks of the national council, who is meeting with whom and besides it was in 2020 and not in 2019. I mean, really... So for two reasons, I won't answer that question and I won't even try. As far as education television is concerned, education television actually started with some difficulty. These are mostly centers, field units were involved in the production of these first formats. It was the first TV to react so quickly. Today this educational library is rich and developed on a completely different level, these programs are being implemented. I think it'll be used. Available in the library online right now this educational offer. When it comes to nationwide television programs that record inheritances. All national programs record declines, television, and radio. When it comes to Polish Television, it's en block, in total it's an increase in position, an increase in ratings. This applies to the whole range of programs, and to those nationwide, and those dedicated, specialized - almost 30% of the market, the largest sender. As regards the financial responsibility for the tasks carried out - Mr Grupiński, the question - of course, Mr Grupiński, we all bear this responsibility, of course, also for the performance of our responsibilities, especially for professional Members, but also for the presidents of cities. Everyone's aware of that. Our report, I hope, shows how much effort has been made mainly by the staff of the National Radio and Television Council. That's 60,000. resolutions, decisions, etc. justify the existence of that institution. When it comes to dioceses, dioceses, concessions for Radio Maryja, how this happened, it is a matter of the past, the 1990s. I think you might be able to tell us about this yourself, Marshal Czarzasty. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u470	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll say goodbye to you because you're taking over Marshal Terlecki. I was curious to listen to this discussion and I absolutely did not respond to it, but I will allow myself to reflect personally, one sentence. Because you started it, Mr. Chairman. I was, as you know, one of the most outstanding secretaries of the National Radio and Television Council. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And I thought, I believed my exploits could never be trumped. I was a man of little faith. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Thank you very much for meeting me and I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee of Jack the World. Mr. Marshal! I'm giving you your chair back. I'll bring him in to make you comfortable. Will that be the second reading?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u471	Gentlemen of the Marshals! High Izbo! In the form of a plea, it has come to my attention that I have presented the committee's report very briefly. It is not my role, of course, to refer to the whole discussion, but I think I have the right to speak about one point that I lacked in this debate, and during the deliberations of the Committee on Culture, and here in the Chamber. Namely, I have been repeating for many years the thought which Mr Kołodziejski repeated this time. Namely: the media market is a whole: the electronic market, the paper market, the Internet market. And until recently we lived in a situation of extreme pathology, i.e. The overwhelming majority of the media represented one ideological-political line. Half of Poles were practically voiceless. Today, whatever we say about public media, they have one fundamental advantage: they provide a minimum of pluralism, the foundation of democracy. I don't believe what I'm hearing. What kind of pluralism? It's all lies, really. So you're not listening to what I'm saying. But I'm listening. I'm talking about the media market as a whole. I mention this because this thread has not been taken up, I have never heard an answer or a reference to this fundamental thought. And that, unfortunately, happened this time. That's too bad. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u472	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolutions. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. But this... I take it they're gonna go to committee? No. For second reading. Objection! There's an objection. Yes. We will therefore proceed to the vote in the voting block. Does that mean we're voting on this tomorrow? There's an objection. Mr. Marshal's announcement was that there would be a second reading. Yes, sir. And you're against it. You don't have to justify it. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications (prints Nos 514 and 517). I ask Mr Kazimierz Khoma to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 22 July 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The proposed amendment aims, in particular, at ensuring the legal basis for the implementation of measures under the RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020: Exceptional temporary support for farmers, micro and small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly those affected by the crisis related to COVID-19 referred to in Article. 39b Regulation No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 of the European Union By launching this action, farmers engaged in agricultural activities for economic purposes, whose holdings were most affected as a result of this crisis, will be able to receive financial support. It is worth noting that the law simplifies the way to obtain financial support by reducing procedures as much as possible. If, thanks to the kindness of the High House, the bill is approved, the funds can be paid to farmers in November and December 2020. This aid is very expected by farmers. Thank you very much to the Government of the Republic of Poland, in particular Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski, for preparing a project so much expected by the agricultural environment of the law. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 23 July 2020, does not make any amendments to Draft Printing Act No 514. During the committee's work, an editorial comment was made which does not affect the content of the resolution. The Commission, with one abstention, adopted the draft law with no votes against. Therefore, I ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u474	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. We're gonna make a little adjustment here. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u475	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We welcomed the proposal to amend the law on support for rural development and the European Commission's agreement to transfer nearly PLN 1200 million to help Polish farmers who operate in the field of cattle, goats, sheep or plant production. This is important aid during the COVID-19 pandemic. We will support this bill, hoping that it will enter into force quickly. According to the Minister's declaration, it is still to be implemented this year, including the payment of the necessary funds, a significant aid of up to 7 000. Euros maximum. It's an aid that often compensates for the damage caused during the COVID-19 pandemic. We will fully support this law if there are also some constructive proposals. Once again, we thank the European Commission for the opportunity to transfer funds under the agricultural fund to direct support for Polish farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u476	Thank you very much. Now we're back to normal order, settled order. Mr Maciej Górski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u477	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the amendment of the Law of 20 February 2015 on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the years 2014 to 2020. This amendment aims to introduce an additional action. This is exceptional temporary support for farmers, micro and small and medium-sized enterprises particularly affected by the COVID-19 crisis. This support is subject to both a short deadline for the issue, cultivation and issue of these funds by the end of this year, as well as a necessity, as the agricultural sector has suffered a great deal. Whoever's involved in agriculture knows what the prices are. Breaking supply chains caused a big problem in the Polish village. Some people have a liquidity problem. The support we are talking about, as a result of various analyses in the Ministry, is aimed at specific industries. The draft regulation clarifies quite precisely which industries will receive them. It concerns livestock farmers, mainly cattle, pigs, poultry, and ornamental plant breeders. The draft also shortens the administrative path, shortens the administrative time limits for appeal against the decision, review of the appeal, request for service of the decision, as decisions which satisfy the request of the party will not be served, as in the case of direct payments. With regard to the position presented by the Ministry at the committee's meeting, it is clear that much emphasis is placed on the form of submission of applications and the possibility of using the data collected in the restructuring agency. It is about the data that the agency is friendly to farmers and will pay these measures to meet the challenges. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this law. Every money spent on the Polish countryside is necessary for Polish farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u478	Thank you very much. Now Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left Club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u479	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hello, sir. Greetings, sir. Member remotely. You're welcome. I'm glad you made it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club always supports additional measures that flow to the countryside, and so is the draft law. This project, although it was submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm yesterday and today a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place, was adopted without objection. Why does the Democratic Left Alliance support the submission on this matter? For we are always in favour of measures that flow and which can relieve Polish agriculture in its difficult situation, also during the COVID... That's the Left's approach. And the same applies to the Act in print 514. High Izbo! It's a question, we're talking about measures... It is an amount of about a billion, which is expected to receive ad hoc support from agriculture. It is only a pity that this applies to this limited amount of 7 000. The euro, because these are the maximum measures, because they are agricultural producers, particularly those involved in the production of pigs and poultry, whose losses resulting from COVID cannot be compensated in any way. But it's always a good thing that these measures, though small, will come in. My concern and concern is that they will only reach farmers in November or December, and the economic situation of the liquidity of farmers is very, very difficult. Perhaps as a result of KOWR's organizational approach, it will be possible to speed up payments so that they reach the Polish farmer as soon as possible. And what else, as a result of the agricultural commission... What can I thank the government for? For this aid concerns all operators working in agriculture, including cooperatives, and in particular I asked about agricultural cooperatives, which have been effectively omitted in many shields. Cooperative farmers, practically for the first time, can count on help from this law. High Izbo! I am convinced that after the reorganisations that are being carried out in state agencies, these measures will be more quickly - as the Minister announced at the meeting of the agricultural committee - to farmers, as a result of which the economic situation of the Polish agriculture affected by the COVID will improve, as we see on a daily basis. The Left Alliance Club will support the bill and we are not making any amendments today. If there are some that will improve this bill and speed up the disbursement of funds, we will certainly support these amendments as well. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u480	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, a club of the Polish People's Party, now has the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL - Kukiz15 to present a position on the Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 The proposed amendment concerns the Act of 15 February 2015 and aims, in particular, to provide the legal basis for implementation under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020... It also aims to include temporary support for farmers, micro-enterprises and certain medium-sized enterprises particularly affected by the COVID-19 crisis referred to in Article. 39b, as the President said, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 17 December 2013. Ladies and gentlemen! By launching this action, farmers whose farms are most affected by the crisis will be able to receive financial support, as stated here, up to 7 000. Euros. At present, the effects of the COVID are increasingly and more pronounced, and exceptional support measures need to be applied. The agricultural and food sectors reported many difficulties at the time of the sharpening, among others. in the movement of animals in the countries of the European Union, as well as difficulties resulting from the closure of shops, markets, restaurants and other catering establishments. All these economic distortions in the agricultural and food sectors have led to problems with the financial liquidity of farmers. This problem can seriously jeopardise the functioning of agricultural activities now and, I think, in the near future. The proposed forms of support are a one-off flat-rate payment for farmers meeting the access criteria set out in the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. It is very important in this action that the funds are transferred efficiently so that the situation of farmers affected by the 2019 drought is not repeated which did not receive support at the time they were expecting. Therefore, in this case money must be transferred quickly and the procedure must be simplified and clear. All this, of course, is so that it is real support, not just for the chosen ones. As far as November and December are concerned, the deadline must indeed be respected because many farmers have financial obligations, loans and this, in turn, hinders their liquidity, disrupts their activities and may lead to difficulties in further agricultural activities. Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 fully supports every project that brings real financial support to the village, but of course we will look closely at the situation and distribution of this money. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On July 9, this year, I filed an interrogation on this matter. She's bearing number 8737. In this interpellation I was very pleased with this action and with this direction of support, but as it has already sounded, I am concerned that in such a late period this form of support will be passed on to farmers. All the more so is the responsibility of all of us to carry out this obligation and to really help farmers. As is also mentioned here, support will be given to farmers in the agricultural sector who grow meat cattle, especially beef production, dairy cows, pigs, piglets, dungeons, sheep, goats, slaughter poultry, laying poultry. I am also concerned that other agricultural sectors have been omitted: gardening, fruit growers, soft fruit producers, milk producers and eggs producers. And in my interpellation, I asked many questions to the Minister. I hope that I will get an honest answer to these questions in due time, because they stem from deep social concern and, I think, from local patriotism. And I hope that here actually rural matters, farmers' affairs and the future of agriculture will be important for all of us and will unite us in a joint and efficient action for agriculture and rural areas. And I hope that we all, as we are here, appreciate the importance and importance of agriculture in the national economy. And I hope that this will also be a form for us, I would say, a test for understanding the importance of the matter and for local patriotism. Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, as I said, enjoys every zloty transferred to the village because it is really real support, real help and real action for rural development, agricultural activity itself and, I think, our national economy. Thank you kindly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u482	Thank you, Member. Mr Mikhal Urbaniak, near the Confederation, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u483	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The situation in agriculture is difficult for many reasons. It is not only COVID-19 that is the main cause of problems in the countryside. Today's project will in no way solve all the problems that are overlapping in agriculture, and for it to enter into force, the European Commission must also accept the form of aid. In addition, the farmer must submit an application, the recruitment will probably be in September, the payments in November, and the maximum amount - 30 000. It is not entirely clear how it will be settled. Unfortunately, it is an ad hoc aid, and real system solutions for Polish agriculture are still missing. Let us remind you that ASF problems have been increasing for several years. More fires keep popping up. Drought has not disappeared and we still do not have a national strategy for water management. There are still problems with uncontrolled imports of food and agri-food products from Ukraine. The sphere at the foot of Polish agriculture is also EU policy, including climate security presented by the European Commission, i.e. the European Green Order, which will literally destroy Polish agriculture. The requirements imposed in the strategy from the field to the table and in the biodiversity strategy, which contain provisions such as mandatory 10% exclusion of agricultural land from production, the mandatory use of at least 25% of agricultural land for organic production and a significant reduction in the use of fertilisers and plant protection products, are the assumptions of a new agricultural policy in the European Union. Farmers were burdened with the costs of further environmental and climate protection. This will lead to the relocation of more production outside the European Union, to third countries and to the abandonment of land by our farmers. High Izbo! Indeed, the world's largest producers, these world's food, probably have their fingers crossed for the European Union's new agricultural policy, because Europe will simply become a great market. The European Commission has not indicated how it will compensate farmers for the losses caused by crop reduction or reduction of the use of plant protection products, so I also call on the government to prepare a systemic, comprehensive solution. Still, this project with a heavy heart, but we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u484	Thank you very much. One Member has asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The farmers who spoke with me kindly asked that, firstly, they commend the initiative to amend the Rural Development Support Act with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 But they kindly asked me to pass on four proposals: firstly, to ensure that the payment is organised as efficiently as possible, secondly, so that the application procedure can be defined as widely as possible, and that it should be simplified as possible, the third case, to cover as wide a group of agricultural producers and farms as possible, and the fourth case, that is the question whether it is possible to accelerate (the bell) the receipt of these payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u486	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Jan Białkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the government, but above all on behalf of farmers, I would like to thank you for a constructive approach to the problem. Well, COVID touched us all very hard. We'd like to give you more. We have asked the European Commission to allocate EUR 1 billion to help. We got a little bit more than PLN 1 billion, but this is also the big money farmers are waiting for, which is why here is the procession that you have adopted, this accelerated mode, is really very much needed and for what I have said, on behalf of the government, and above all on behalf of the farmers I am also with, thank you very much. We will try to carry out the whole process very efficiently, so that I would like to reassure the Member here. I hope that this will really be carried out very smoothly and that this will only be possible as soon as possible. November is such a practical term, but perhaps we can speed things up a little bit. This also depends on how the legislative process will take place in the Senate. I hope that the Senate will approach the problem as constructively as your Members. 7,000. - these restrictions result unfortunately from EU legislation. It's not our decision, it's just that it comes from EU rules. You don't have an MP from PSL, but her interpellation... The answer is practically prepared for this, very comprehensive. So that we are constantly analysing these issues and trying to support farmers in this difficult situation as quickly as possible. The experience gained from the transfer of drought measures, which have recently entered the Polish countryside in large quantities, allows us to promise that we will be able to carry out this procedure as quickly as possible and that the measures resulting from the present law will be distributed equally quickly. I hope this happens at the end of October if everything goes well. So that at the very moment when these measures are very much needed, they should go to farmers. Thank you very much for your constructive approach. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-23-sejm-15-2.u488	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 23 July. The meeting shall be adjourned until 24 July 2020 at the latest. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 32]]
