ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish the list of senators taking part in the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Yes, the light must be on. Please report the results. 75 senators voted. [[Voting No 37]] And so many senators are currently attending, but as you can see, this number is slowly increasing. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of December '70. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 245, and the committee's report In print No 245 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There are events and anniversaries that can't be passed indifferently. Undoubtedly, such events and anniversaries include the events of December '70. The protest of workers on the coast and other areas of Poland is an expression of disapproval for the communist system at the time, which absolutely failed, while the actions of the authorities of that time are a crime against the nation. It should be noted that, unfortunately, it is not the first and not the last. We need to mention the previous events of June '56 or later June '76, August '80 and the period of martial law. The protests in December 1970 were an expression of disapproval for unjustified increases in prices, especially food. At that time, the economy was backwards and agriculture was failing. The authorities treated society in question, they did not want to count on society. The most important thing was ideology. The most tragic events took place on 17 December in Gdynia, where the army without warning opened fire to workers going to work. The first victims in Szczecin were killed that day. According to official data, 45 people died during the protests in December 1970. The youngest victim was 16 years old, the oldest was 59 years old. One thousand and 165 people were injured, and about 3,000 people were brutally beaten and arrested. These events were permanently inscribed in the history of Poland. It can be said that if it weren't for December '70, it wouldn't be August '80, there wouldn't be free Poland. But we had to wait for a generation to be free. Unfortunately, the guilty and responsible for the December '70 victims were not judged. At its meeting on 24 November 2020, ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Commission adopted unanimously, with 22 votes in favour, an agreed draft resolution. On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I request that it be adopted without amendments at second reading. I would just like to mention a little bit more, because at the beginning I said that next to this anniversary it was impossible to pass indifferently, that a year ago, on 17 December in this hall, in this Senate term, there was also a resolution. In its title there were words on the anniversary of bloody protests of workers on the Coast. This resolution already applies more widely to the territory of the whole country, because the events of December '70 were not only on the Coast, but also in the rest of the country. They were also in Szczecin, as mentioned here. It should be noted that in the case of 16 victims of Szczecin for 14 of them the average age is 21 years and for 2 people over 40 years. This also shows tragedy and drama in the case of those who have sacrificed themselves. Of these 16 victims, 3 victims are buried outside Szczecin, among others. one of these victims is buried in a cemetery in Zambrowa from where I am a senator. So that's also the sound of December '70 having a wider response and a wider impact. You could probably talk a lot about this anniversary. It's been in the news and movies a lot since Sunday. I think December 17th is generally the anniversary of December '70. And I ask once again on behalf of the Legislative Commission for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Marek Komorowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Bogdan Borusewicz was the first to vote. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u4	It's been half a century since that power dealt with the protesters. The period of the Polish People's Republic had different views of the Stalinist period, when people were murdered with judicial judgments and without judgments, then thaw Gomulak and the decision to shoot, which occurred on Tuesday the 15th at 9 a.m.... It was taken by the First Secretary Of course, surrounded by those who supported this decision, or at least did not protest. For many it is a historic anniversary to be commemorated, but for some of those who remember, and lived on the Coast, they lived in Gdansk, in Szczecin, Gdynia and Elbląg, it is a piece of their life, these are memories that have stuck in their memory. And some of these people are still traumatized. Those who saw the shooting, their friends were killed. Remembering this anniversary, one must also remember the tragedy of families, loved ones, mothers, fathers, wives. You have to remember the atmosphere of fear and terror. After all, most of these people did not remember Stalin's period. They didn't know they were gonna shoot them when they went out on the street with a protest. It was a situation where mothers wouldn't let their sons out of the house. Then, after the first day, they said, "Where are you going?" I absolutely won't let go. And it was understandable that they were afraid. I arrived after curfew, in the evening I got off the train in Sopot and a woman came to me. Yeah, she almost ran. She looked and said with regret, "I thought he was my son." I came to meet him. That's when I realized I was in the same place I lived, but under completely different circumstances. A mother comes to meet her son to see if he's okay, and she expresses her regret. This tragedy is, above all, the tragedy of many families. I say many families, because the use of weapons was basically common. I think especially of Gdynia, a middle-sized city, where 18 people were shot in the course of a few hours on 17 December, about 6.00 to 14.00. But there were also Szczecin 16 people. In one place, under the command of the voivodship, 12 people were shot. We're saying 45 people died. Yeah, he died, but there were more than just victims among them. They were also the perpetrators. As far as the victims are concerned, they were 42 people. Those were the ones who were demonstrating who were being shot at. There were also random victims, like that 16-year-old girl who was sitting in her apartment getting shot through the window, quite accidentally. But it must also be said that two militiamen died in Gdansk. One was undoubtedly the perpetrator. He shot a man, shot him in the neck, and this man was killed. The other died of respiratory failure. There was a lot of gas, and a man died. There was one more soldier in the service, but here he's not quite sure if he killed himself or shot himself. I'm talking about pointing out that this tragedy was about everyone. But there were also those who were the perpetrators who decided to use the weapon and unfortunately they suffered tragic consequences, because this militiaman in Gdańsk was lynched on December 15th, the crowd got to him and he didn't fire again. So in Gdynia 18 people were killed, in Szczecin 16, in Gdańsk 8 people, in Elbląg 1 person. Of course, this support, these demonstrations were also born in other places, but only in these cities were weapons used and thus suppressed. Who was demonstrating? Well, as always, as always, young people. Only eight of the people who were killed were over 30 years old. Mostly workers died, but the second group were students, very young people. Two 15-year-olds died in Gdynia, Zygmunt Gliniecki and Jerzy Skoniczka, primary school students. It was a tragedy because young people who lived before had to die. Did that make sense? When they died, and after December, when did such darkness reign over Poland? Everyone was asking themselves if it changed anything. In the short term, nothing, not much. But of this December '70 was born August '80. Without December, there wouldn't be August. It wasn't by chance August '80 that he was born in these cities where... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...the power has acted with the people. Everyone knew and saw that that power was based on violence and a lie. It was such an accelerated folk university for the inhabitants of Tricity, Szczecin. It was a folk university, which 10 years later caused Poland to change. Ladies and gentlemen, not force and violence, but dialogue and compromise should serve to resolve conflicts between society and power. I will make such an amendment, because this is a fundamental message. The way we exercise power... not only ideology, but the way we exercise power can be the way that leads to tragedy. I hope there are no more such tragedies in our history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Sławomir Rybicki will speak remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! 50 years ago, on the Coast there were dramatic events, one of the most bloody events in the latest history of Poland, a labor revolution, later named by publicists and historians of December events. Yesterday we laid flowers at the Monument of the Fallen Shipyards in Gdansk. This morning at 6:00 a.m., exactly 50 years after the so-called. Black Thursday, near Gdynia Shipyard stop, at the Memorial of the Victims of December 70 in Gdynia, I had the honour to make a wreath on behalf of the Senate of the Republic, paying tribute to all of us who died in the Gdynia massacre. We honored the memory of the murdered. Shipowners, porters, students, students, as well as all those who were injured, beaten, fired from work, persecuted, who had the courage to stand up for dignity and freedom, to oppose communist power here in Gdynia and all over the Coast: in Gdansk, Szczecin, Elbląg and many other Polish cities. High Senate, on December 17, 1970, in the winter morning, the girls went to work, to universities, to schools. For many of them, it was a tragic day. Many of them have not reached their workplaces and their teachings. 18 of them were killed on the streets of Gdynia by military and militia series of rifle bullets given from tanks and helicopters. As Bogdan Borusewicz said earlier, young people died. Only three out of 18 were over thirty years old. Several hundred were wounded, hundreds arrested and beaten in police cazamata. The symbol of this tragedy, but I think that the symbol of the whole December events, was the walk of Świętojańska Street in Gdynia with the body of Janek Wiśniewski, in fact Zbyszek Godlewski, described in the ballad about the December events. Let me quote a passage: On the door he was carried by a saintly Across from the cops, across from the tanks. For bread and freedom, for a new Poland... Janek Wiśniewski's down! These words reflect the essence of the December protest, the struggle for a decent life and freedom. The High Izbo, the memory and tradition of December 70 became an important element of identity for the inhabitants of the Tricity, but it was also the foundation of the anti-communist movement on the Coast, established by the Student Solidarity Committee, at a later time of the Human and Civil Rights Movement, close to me the Youth Movement of Poland or finally the Free Trade Unions of the Coast. Our environment was organized, among others. common celebrations of the next anniversaries of December 70 under gate No. 2 of Gdańsk Shipyard, then im. Lenin, 1977, 1978, 1979. Every year, there were more and more of us, despite the repression, arrests, preventative arrests, searches in our homes. I must stress here a particular role in the organisation of these events of my previous speaker, Bogdan Borusewicz. Finally, the idea of the Monument of the Fallen Shipyards was realized in December 1980. But it was also very important to remember the living memory of December 70. One of the basic demands of the strikers in August 1980 was that of building monuments to the victims of the December tragedy. High Senate, the history of December 70 is a warning against despotic, authoritarian governments, which in defence of insane ideology, in defence of their privileges, are ready to use violence and terror. It is a history of folk power, which used troops and militia against defenseless people, against protesters in the streets of Polish cities. This crime isn't left. Unfortunately, never judged, and here in Gdynia, we remember it well. But December events are also a dramatic lesson that has not gone to waste. It was an important stop on the Polish road to full independence. It wouldn't be August '80, it wouldn't have been August if it hadn't been for the science and conclusions that the strikers had learned from the December drama 10 years later. It can be said metaphorically that August '80 was born in December 1970. There would be no free, sovereign Poland without the sacrifice made by the participants of the events of December '70. Hello their memory! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u8	I am applying for the appointment of a committee meeting and the vote of this resolution at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u9	Thank you very much. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. The committee will be held today and today in the evening there will be a vote on this resolution. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The text of the Act is contained in print No 268 and the report of the Commission In print No 268 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is not easy to talk about the implementation of European law immediately after celebrating this extremely important and painful anniversary. By the way, I would like to thank Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz for this speech, for reminding not only the atmosphere, the circumstances, the context, but also those heroes, often nameless. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, December '70 in some sense marked, as we have heard, these next dates, 1980, 1989, but also our present activity. I am pleased to represent the committee on a matter of extreme importance, because once again we are adopting a legislative act which is related to our membership of the European family. This time it is about professions, various professions, qualifications, certificates, evidence of certain competences. It is not that today, when we give our consent in the Seym and the Senate, we begin the implementation process. We're actually finishing it. I will remind you that the beginnings of this legislation date back to 2005, and in the European Parliament itself it was final in 2018. However, this does not mean that nothing happened between the first date and the second date. We have dealt with numerous processes of regulating professions, confirming specific competences, building standards for individual qualifications, often requiring complex technical, but also legal tools. What are the main advantages of this important undertaking, as I said, a very complicated, demanding work and stretched out over time? Firstly, the elimination of various discrimination in the European labour market. Secondly, regulation of cross-border services. Thirdly, bringing about the recognition of various diplomas, certificates, certificates of competence. However, it is also important to set out in this final normative act, in which we have to consult normative acts or set a time limit for achieving specific objectives. Let me remind you that in this implementation, which has been implemented for many, many years, there are elements that have also forced us to deregulate many professions. Despite this, Poland is still a country in the forefront of regulated professions in various ways. What is important in these possible limitations as regards national rules? Of course, language requirements, language skills, additional qualifications requirements, fees for obtaining certain certificates of qualification etc. Any country may also introduce reserved activities. We did it, too. Looking at this last time, I have to say that what's most important is what's been going on over the last decade... And that's what I want to draw attention to. Because the work that was done was huge. It is about professional certificates, about obtaining the right criteria for the powers of various professions, such as surveyors, cartographers, but also pilots, along with confirmation of certain standards of fitness, physical, and mental. We have also dealt with issues relating to official fees for confirming certain qualifications. We've already done a whole set of tools in 2010 or 2011, and we've built these tools for the qualification of various driving licences, and there's a lot of them. Also issues concerning exams and examiners... It was very important. The Commission pointed out that perhaps this time which is included in the Act, 14 days, is insufficient. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to write down 28 days. And the Legislative Office also stressed doubts about the narrow or slightly extended interpretation of certain provisions of this law. But in general, I would like to say that this work, which ended with more than 60 different consultations, including at least half of it was extremely active, ended, in short, by confirming the properties of the implementation of these provisions. And that's where I'd like to end it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u11	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask a question? No questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki like to speak on this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u12	I would just like to thank, in fact, all those who participated in the work on this amendment. This is an act of law that is very important from the point of view of the changes that are currently taking place in Europe as well. This aspect was not raised at the committee meeting, but this is also important. This applies to all those who live in the UK. Thus, in fact, this amendment affects this matter as it were. But I would just like to say one more thing, because it did not sound like it at the committee meeting, and it is worth saying this: this amendment is also done first and foremost in order to introduce a clear rule and principle of proportionality, according to which these restrictions on whether it is an activity or a regulated profession... These restrictions or the functioning of these professions must come directly from very clear grounds, above all, of national interest, but also of what is related to security issues. Once again, I would like to thank all those who participated in the work on amending the law, and I would like to ask that it be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u13	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're asking Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question one. You have practically mentioned this, Senator rapporteur, Senator Zdrojewski. What is the reason for this existing vacathio legis in terms of planned changes? Do you foresee, if any, an amendment extending this deadline? Another question. Are there any consequences for those entrepreneurs who will not be able to implement these guidelines within the deadline? Well, maybe not the consequences for entrepreneurs, I'm sorry, but for those who won't be able to implement this law within the deadline set.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u15	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u16	On the first point, I would like to say that Senator Zdrojewski was not talking about vacathio legis here, but about doubts about those authorities which are obliged, as the amendment says, to report all issues concerning regulated professions within 14 days. This also applies to, among other things. The Senate's office or the Sejm's office. So 14 days after the entry into force of this law, these bodies, like the Sejm and Senate Chancellery, will have to identify those acts or projects that affect precisely this matter concerning activity or regulated professions. And this doubt refers not to vacathio legis, but to this 14-day term. As far as the second question is concerned, here we are talking about a certain obligation of the authorities, the institutions of the state to control and look from the perspective of this act of law, i.e. the law, on issues of whether it is activity or regulated professions. The warden is here with us, who acts as this statutory monitoring coordinator, as if all of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u17	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u18	Minister, the Sejm introduced an amendment to this law, which allows doctors, nurses or rescuers to be recruited to work in hospitals by a temporary agency. I would like to ask you whether you have analysed as a resort whether such a solution does not pose any risks in the context of the lack of influence on the selection of staff and uncertainty as to the proper verification of the competence of specialists acquired by the temporary agency. This solution is normally used to employ very short-term employees and rather low-skilled workers. Hence my question: did you, as a government, support this amendment? And if so, how do you estimate the potential benefits and risks of this solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rather, this question refers to a completely different legal matter. Today we are discussing and debating the amendment of a law which, through its support on the principle of proportionality, is intended to guarantee what is most important, because it is precisely this principle of proportionality that speaks about... Provisions in this area, i.e.. health services and medical care, allow the setting of very strict conditions for the exercise of this regulated profession. So that it is required not only, I would say, appropriate documentation in the form of a diploma, but also everything that results directly from the practice of our health care. This amendment allows a rigorous approach to this matter and keeps it in line. Therefore, it is not by chance that the reasons for this amendment include a comment relating directly to health care.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u21	Thank you. More questions... Oh, there's a question. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is perhaps not closely related to the content of this law, but it is definitely related to such legal acts. In addition to the requirement for recognition of professional qualifications, it may still be imposed on persons seeking to pursue a profession in Poland or, let us assume, some function additional requirements, restrictions. In the case of e.g. judges or police officers are required to have only Polish citizenship if a person wants to do such a job. This is a kind of limitation, even within the European Union. I have a question as to whether such restrictions are in other countries. That answer doesn't have to be right away. I'm sure you're not able to answer right away, so I'd like a written reply. Is the requirement to have citizenship only of a given State laid down in laws, in the law of other countries of the European Union, and if so, for what professions, what functions, what, let's call it generally, profession, positions? And second question. How do these countries examine how the possible fulfilment of this requirement is examined there? I don't know, on the basis of a statement, a certificate, some kind of query... These could be different methods. If you could just... What it looks like in Poland, we know. What does it look like in other countries of the European Union? I would ask for such a written statement for which professions this additional condition of nationality is imposed only by the country concerned. So Poles, people with Polish citizenship, if they do not renounce this citizenship, cannot perform such functions or professions in these countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u23	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. If you can answer that question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u24	Mr. Senator, I will respond to your intention, I mean. We'll prepare a comprehensive reply in writing at the Ministry and hand it over to you. By adopting a message in good faith in this regard, we should assume that these successive directives, which the rapporteur spoke about, i.e. the 2005 and 2018 directive, within the meaning of the rules and principles of the so-called. The rule of law should be implemented in all EU countries. Each Member State of the European Union should therefore appoint a coordinator office with the appropriate minister, as has been done in Poland. But, of course, we'll prepare a full written reply for the senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u25	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. If your senator isn't here right now, I'm gonna ask Senator Danuta Jazłowick to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 2018. Those provisions oblige the Union States to assess proportionality and the legitimate and non-discriminatory nature of the requirements which restrict access to regulated professions. States must monitor the preparation of the rules, define criteria to be taken into account when assessing the rules in place, and introduce an obligation to carry out assessments of compliance of draft regulatory rules or requirements for the provision of cross-border services with the principles of proportionality. They also require the obligation to consult draft legal acts, including normative acts, containing requirements or regulatory provisions for the provision of cross-border services. Regulated professions are professions that cannot be pursued without the specific conditions laid down in the country concerned. Conditions which require the acquisition of special professional qualifications. Hence the need to introduce rules to ensure that every citizen is able to benefit from them in advance and on an equal basis. In Poland we have 360 regulated professions The most important in the European Union. Access to a regulated profession is possible for a candidate who meets one or more requirements or all requirements For example, the completion of an appropriate course of study, the opinion of special examinations, e.g. State examinations, whether to register with the relevant professional organisation. Having the right to pursue a regulated profession in Poland, there is no automatic right to pursue that profession throughout the European Union. It can only be done if it is a regulated profession in Poland and it is not in a given country. If this is a regulated profession in both countries, it is necessary to apply for official recognition of professional qualifications abroad. The preparation of rules on the recognition of regulated professions requires great care. Is this the case with the government's proposal? Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the Act designates the Minister in charge of the government administration responsible for the recognition of professional qualifications, which has among others. monitor compliance with the principles of proportionality, legitimate and non-discriminatory nature. The designated information shall be communicated by the Minister to the coordinator. At this point, the question is: who will be the coordinator? What's his role? What kind of tasks? Where's he gonna be located? There's no mention of it. There is also no mention of whether additional human and financial resources will be needed to enable the new tasks to be carried out effectively. Is the implementation of the law planned for the 2021 budget? No answer to these questions. This is disturbing. The deadline for the Minister drawing up the draft legislative act to fulfil the information obligation is, as usual, too short. I will remind you that the law will also change the resolutions and regulations of the Senate, the Sejm and the Council of Ministers, but not only these institutions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 the Directive clearly states that It is crucial for the proper functioning of the internal market to ensure that Member States inform citizens, representative associations and other relevant stakeholders, including the social partners, before introducing or amending existing requirements restricting access to or pursuit of regulated professions. Member States should involve all interested parties and allow them to comment. Where appropriate and where appropriate, Member States should conduct public consultations in accordance with their national procedures. What does this process look like? I believe that there is a need to clarify the rules for identifying the stakeholders with whom the projects are to be consulted. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the deadline for implementing the Act has already expired on 30 July 2020, almost 5 months ago, and there are still issues that need clarification or clarification. What, then, is the issue of careful preparation of regulations? The need to allow institutions serving citizens, such as the Sejm, the Senate or the Council of Ministers, to function fairly has been ignored by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u27	Thank you very much. And I would like the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u28	Thank you very much. I'll start with a formal issue. I have already tabled a proposal at the committee meeting to extend this deadline, really very short, to 28 days. He is not among the minority proposals, and I repeat this proposal. I've already put it in the office. I would like to make this amendment a reality which, from my point of view, is de facto impossible today. The holiday season begins, and we don't know when you're gonna sign it. Therefore, In general, I am talking about this out of caution, but also because of the cycle of certain changes, including the rules of procedure, it would be good if the deadline was 28 days rather than 14 days. That's the first line. The second point is a certain discrepancy, which has also arisen in these speeches, in this information. I would like to stress that I have dealt with a bit of regulated professions in the European Parliament and during my duties as Minister. I must say that, in general, everyone is behind deregulation except for those concerned. Therefore, the defence mechanism for regulating certain professions has extended to all possible resorts, and this has led to the situation that, instead of deregulation, we have only dealt with the process of reducing the various restrictions on access to certain professions in a very mild way. Today we are indeed some kind of record holder in Europe. We are at the forefront of those countries that regulate the competition. Some, e.g. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, they say this competition is 360. According to European standards, there are nearly 300 of them. If we look at what professions de facto involve a separate process of obtaining qualifications, we will see that there are nearly half a thousand of them. There is nothing wrong with the fact that there are requirements, but it is wrong if these requirements actually cause serious restrictions. Senator Czerwiński has tried to find out to what extent citizenship may restrict access to a particular profession. These limitations are not so much, but an important limitation, and it is acceptable, to know the language of the country, the country in which the profession is performed. Of course, in many cases this is a legitimate, well-founded, non-disputed reservation, although there are also, unfortunately, professions where these regulations are still excessive, unjustified. This raises serious doubts. The last point concerns these consultations. The Ministry did indeed do some work by asking more than 60 different institutions to respond to this implementation process as well as to the provisions set out here. Unfortunately, less than half responded. The quickest response were those institutions, which are uniformed, i.e. military, police and guards, but also health centers, naval offices, etc. Many organisations, many institutions, unfortunately, have not answered this important question, with serious consequences. In this regard, I conclude my statement, which justified the thesis that these 14 days were too short a period. That should be at least 28 days. And that's what I'm applying for. But I will also add that we know and we are aware that this process has continued and that no one should be surprised here. However, as we know life, we also know how procedures work. It's the surprises. Unfortunately, it will be a bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u29	Thank you, Senator. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Does a government representative want to respond... The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Włodzimierz Bernacki: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u30	First, I will refer to Senator Jazłowiecka's statement. [[There you go.]] There's been a misunderstanding. The coordinator was appointed by the 2015 Act and this coordinating office operates. There's a warden here with us who does this job. Well, it's not like this amendment is making it all up. A new being. No. In this part... Well, the coordinator, as I say, was called much, much earlier, because five years ago. I will move on to the comment on the amendment that has been tabled. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to remind you once again that right now, actually... 14 days is a vacathio legis, so this is the time that is actually given to adapt to the new legal reality. And from that point on, after 14 days, it runs another 14 days. So, as far as the obligation of bodies and institutions to report to the coordinator on all these issues in the matter of professions or regulated activities is concerned, this amendment now, de facto, provides for 28 days. Of course, the Senate will decide and the senators will decide according to their conscience, whether it is a sufficient term or not. I would also like to say that these 60 entities to which an amendment has been sent... This was the spring of 2020, so the problem was not the time, but rather other considerations, namely the lack of real interest by the authorities or bodies who received the documents for consultation. Therefore, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Ministry, broad consultation is simply a fact. Finally, I would like to say that both the Senate Office and the Sejm Office at the end of October were informed of the forthcoming amendment of the law, with such a simple message that they would already pay attention to all these amendments, to all the projects that are in the area of the Sejm and Senate Office, so that they could look at this from the very side of the amendment being prepared. Well, in my opinion, I'm telling you again. In the opinion of the Ministry there is no need to extend this period from 14 to 28 days, because this already planned time is sometimes sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u31	Thank you, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the law on amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw. The text of the Act is contained in print 277, and the report of the Commission In print No 277 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Joanna Sekula, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today I will present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which took place on 15 December, concerning the Act amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw. The committee was attended by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Education, Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki, and his magnificence Archbishop Prof. Jerzy Pańkowski, Rector of the Christian Theological Academy. The essence of the law is that the status of universities is changing. From a state university to a public university The funding rules for universities shall be specified as the primary source of funding, in accordance with the Higher Education and Science Act. The amount of this subsidy has been determined in a way that assumes that this funding will not be lower than the previous year and will be determined on the basis of the allocation algorithm referred to in the law on higher education. It was stressed that, due to the nature of this university as a university with a small number of students and with a specific function, it was assumed that this funding would take the form of such that it could indeed be higher but would not be lower. It is characteristic of such universities that educate as niche universities. The second source of funding for this academy is the subjective grant provided by the Minister responsible for religious denominations and national minorities, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. This grant shall be granted to the Faculty of Theology, to cover the salaries of academic teachers and their income from these salaries. During the discussion, Minister Bernacki reminded us of some historical conditions connected with the creation of religious and Christian universities, as the Christian Theological Academy is an ecumenical university, and Mr Jarosław Oliwa, director of the Department of Budget and Finance at the Ministry, explained to us the essence of the principles of their financing. During the discussion, the senators asked questions about the nature of the university, and asked about the number of students and the structure of the university. We have been informed that at the moment there are about 400 students at the university. As for the structure, the university consists of 2 departments, i.e. From the Faculty of Theology and from the Faculty of Social Sciences. At the moment, the Faculty of Social Sciences is the dominant department at this university, and at the Faculty of Theology we now have 3 courses covering 3 religious groups. During the vote, the senators by 6 votes to none, 1 vote against They decided to adopt a law in the form proposed by the Sejm. So much for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Bernacki like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Włodzimierz Bernacki: Yes.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u34	Mr Marshal, thank you, Senator rapporteur, for presenting the committee's meeting very accurately. I would like to thank all the members of the committee for the discussion and for the debate. At the same time it seems quite clear and clear that what will happen today, i.e. the adoption of a resolution on the Law on the Financing of the Christian Theological Academy, will be the satisfaction and fulfilment of a certain duty of the state towards these churches and religious unions, which may not be dominant in the Republic, but play a very important and important role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u35	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jolanta Sekula. [[Voice from the room: Joanna.]] Joanna Sekula. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u36	I'm the one who might be on the spot, Mr. Marshal. I have this reflection that comes from an analysis of the academic market. The Christian Theological Academy is one of the academy that currently operates in public circulation. It was created at the same time with the Catholic Theology Academy, at the same time from the University of Warsaw and the Jagiellonian University were separate departments and academies were created, one academy was ecumenical, the other academy Catholic. Since the Catholic Academy was developing very strongly, it was transformed into the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, where of course the Faculty of Theology still operates at the university. Both universities are now becoming public universities financed by the state budget. However, I think that the nature of these universities has long been completely lost, because both of them become universities whose main profile is secular education in the field of humanities, and at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński also in the field of medical sciences. When you analyze the number of students, the structure, the amount of funding, the expenditure on buildings In the case of the Christian Theological Academy, it was an amount of over 30 million, it comes to mind such reflection that it would be good to think of all those universities that educate theologians who undoubtedly perform an extremely important function especially where there is no developed network of churches, congregations or all these religious places... Well, this whole field of humanities or medical education should be separated from theological education so that there is no doubt about the purity of the structures. For if universities in thought were supposed to be theological universities, then they should remain so. At the moment, we finance theological universities, which are de facto open universities. Especially those universities where there are few students in theology, where the dominant number of students is in humanities, not theological faculties, perhaps in the future, if such a discussion is ever opened... Maybe they could actually function within the theological universities. I think that then the situation of such universities and their relations with the general academic community would be much more unambiguous. That's it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very good that we are discussing this law on amending the Law on the Christian Theological Academy. This is a demonstration that Poland is not only Catholics, but also others who have their own university, i.e. Orthodox, Protestant, Old Catholic churches. This is the diversity of Poland, which in a small part is preserved, and therefore we should also take care of those other religions which are in minorities, because this is also an indication concerning the culture and openness of the state. A dozen thousand... Sorry, a few years ago, at the request of Henryk Uncle, a law on funding by the State of the Catholic University of Lublin was passed. Until then, it was financed by contributions from the faithful, but of course the situation changed after 1990. This democratic state also has a responsibility to finance such universities of a religious nature, which are open to others. That's why I'm going to support this bill. Once again, I stress that this is a step in the right direction. The state should take care of everyone, not only the majority, but also those who are in a minority in Poland, because elsewhere the situation is different, in other countries the situation is different. And then we can expect and demand that religious minorities be treated equally in other countries. This is a measure of whether the state is democratic or not. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This is a special moment for me for many reasons. I am very pleased that today, as I see it, we can vote in such a rather rare consensus in this House, I believe, in a moment's time on this bill. This bill is certainly needed The Christian Theological Academy. It is a university which has an extremely important function not only in Polish academic life, I do not dare to speak about it, but certainly plays a very important role in the life of the Republic of Poland, in this dimension, which is a dimension so often forgotten today, but at the same time deeply embedded in our national tradition, in the tradition of multi-ethnic, multi-religious Republic. It is wonderful that today the Christian Theological Academy not only gives the opportunity to educate theologians of various Christian denominations, but also, and I know about it from experience, is a university in which we understand modernly, we very much need Polish patriotism. Thanks to such institutions, rare in our public life, such as the university we are talking about today, people living in our society, and belonging to national or ethnic minorities, can feel full citizens of the Republic, Polish patriots, shaping our reality. This is extremely important, I stress, this is extremely important. I perfectly remember how on this aspect of the common life of people of different cultures filled with the love of the same homeland attention was paid to the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, when he repeated e.g. in Katyn, on the way to which he found a tragic death, that there, in Katyn, were shot in the graves Polish officers of various religions, Orthodox officers, Polish Jews, Protestants who died in Katyn only because they were faithful to the Republic of Poland, regardless of what temple they prayed to God in. This is an extremely important element and I am very glad that it does not cause controversy in the Polish Senate today. This is the element that we are proud to highlight. The Republic was the largest then and we are most proud of this period of Polish history, of the time when it was a common home of different nations, different religions connected under two scepters The great Lithuanian prince and the king of Poland. And then our compatriots of various religions and different nationalities built a unique state on the scale of Europe and on the scale of the world, a state that was only struck by the blows of those who hated the freedom of the invaders. And we refer to this most beautiful Polish tradition wherever we talk about national minorities and religious minorities in Poland. Thank you very much to the High Senate for this unique, friendly atmosphere of today's discussion. Of course, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion... Who else? [[Senator Maciej Łuczak.]] ...and Senator Maciej Łuczak made their speeches in the debate on the protocol. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from that territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 292 and the report of the Commission In print No 292 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I'd like to say one thing. This report, this opinion to the bill, was to be presented by Senator Mammoths, unfortunately, as far as I know, is unhealthy. I'd like to wish him well if he can hear us, all the best and much health. High Izbo, we consider the law on amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from this territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and some other laws. This amendment introduces amendments aimed at adapting the Polish legal order to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union as regards the adaptation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. The amendment aims to bring the Polish law more fully into line with the regulation of the directive on restricting the right to the freedom of movement of persons due to security threats and abuse of the law. It also aims to bring Polish law into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on improving the security of personal evidence of Union citizens and residence permits issued to Union citizens and their family members exercising their right to freedom of movement This will continue to be called Council of the European Union Regulation 2019/1157, which introduces a uniform format of documents issued to citizens of the European Union and to members of their families who enjoy freedom of movement. The names of documents issued to family members of European Union citizens who are not European Union citizens are changed from the residence card of a family member of the European Union citizen to the residence card and from the residence card of a family member of the European Union citizen to the permanent residence card. There is also the introduction of legal solutions allowing for the placement of a fingerprint image on the residence card and permanent residence card. There's still a dozen more targets, and I'm not going to replace them all. In addition, the Act provides for the repeal of the Law of 15 March 2019 on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of an agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. It is a law which, among others, was to regulate the residence rights of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and members of their families in the Republic of Poland during a transitional period, i.e. until 31 December 2020, in the event that the United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union without the conclusion of an agreement governing the conditions for that withdrawal. In view of the fact that the United Kingdom has resigned from the Union on the basis of an exit agreement, it is appropriate to repeal that law. The draft law was introduced as a matter of urgency. The Council of Ministers considered this project urgent in view of the need to regulate the rules for the departure and residence of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and their family members after a transitional period resulting from the exit agreement of that State from the European Union, which ends on 31 December 2020. In the Seym, 382 Members voted in favour of the bill. They were members of the Law and Justice and the Civil Coalition. On the other hand, the Left and the PSL abstained and 70 Members abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have the head of the Foreign Office with us, Minister Jarosław Szajner. Would you like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: If I may, I would love to.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I asked for the opportunity to speak because of the comments made at the committee meeting. However, I would like to ask for this law to be adopted without amendments, and therefore I will now clarify another matter which may not have been fully explained at the committee meeting. I'm talking about Marshal Borusewicz's questions. Gentlemen of the Senators, I address the marshal in particular. I will refer to the expulsions we discussed at the committee meeting. Well, this competence in relation to expulsions would go from voivodeship to Border Guard. I'd like to quote numbers that show what it's been like in recent years. With regard to the expulsion of Unites, i.e. citizens of the European Union, one expulsion of a Romanian citizen was carried out in 2020, and in 2019 there were 3 expulsions of nationals of the Netherlands, Romania and Bulgaria, and in 2018 there were 5 expulsions to Germany, Switzerland, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. Well, in the case of Germany, it was two people. In 2017, the expulsions were 15, but this meant that family members were also expelled: the Netherlands 4 persons, Romania 3 persons, Bulgaria 2 persons, and family members, i.e. 1 person from Ghana, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Turkey, Ukraine. I would like to point out here that this is only the radius of the expulsions made by the Border Guard. Currently, since the Act of 2014, since the amendment of the Foreigners Act, the Border Guard is expelling third-country nationals. There are several thousand of these expulsions, up to 20,000 a year. So, in my opinion, and according to the voivods and the people working on these matters, it is absolutely justified. It should be noted that if we notice 1 intra-EU expulsion per year, this case can go to the voivode every few years. After all, he must have people prepared to carry out such tasks. Border Guard is as prepared as possible to perform such tasks. I consider this to be a continuation of this change, which took place in 2014. I would therefore like to request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u46	Minister, I understand that this change in expulsions is a transfer of powers from the voivodeship to the Border Guard, only concerns citizens of the European Union... [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Only.]] ...because the rest of the authority is already in the Border Guard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u47	Yes, sir. [[Thank you. I think this is a bad solution, but thank you for the explanation. Thank you for explaining this to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u48	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u49	I have the following question: how many expulsions by the Border Guard within a year of this... As I understand it, this solution was introduced in 2014. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Yes.]] How many expulsions of non-EU citizens per year are made by the Border Guard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u50	Mr. Senator, it's about a dozen thousand a year. I can answer in writing in detail, if you wish. [[No. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u51	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you very much, Mr... [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Oh, I didn't see it. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question related to one of the objectives of this law, namely the possibility or actually the obligation to introduce legal solutions allowing for the placement of a fingerprint image. Well, the foreigners will have it, and as far as I'm concerned, it's not in the I.D. yet. Do we have it yet? Well, what are the plans for that? What's it gonna be? What about the Poles who are going outside? Are they gonna have some kind of... Well, is there going to be symmetry? Will they have to have a fingerprint image, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u53	As the senator noted very well, the fingerprint solution refers to foreigners, third-country nationals. We in Poland, as citizens of Poland, do not have this yet. Thus, this solution on fingerprint lines will apply to third-country nationals, after a transitional period of the United Kingdom nationals, as well as family members of European Union citizens, not European Union citizens, but possibly members of their families who would be third-country nationals. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u54	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u55	If there's any question... Minister, will this also apply the other way? Will our countrymen have to change their documents from Britain because of the fingerprint image? 'Cause I understand it's usually symmetrical...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u56	No. Sorry to interrupt, but no, no, Mr. Senator. These arrangements relating to the introduction of regulations resulting from the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement from the European Union shall be adapted by each country to its legal order. So it's not done symmetrically. In accordance with its legal order, the United Kingdom is making a system for giving specific powers to citizens of the European Union. We, as Poland, take action according to our legal order. So it's not symmetrical.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u57	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u58	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from that territory of nationals of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families is intended to bring Polish law into line with the rules in force in the European Union as regards the right of citizens of the European Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, with particular regard to issues relating to the limitation of the right to freedom of movement for persons due to a security risk and abuse of the law. The Act introduces provisions concerning in particular to ensure that Poland applies the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. This law amends the rules of entry, stay and exit of British nationals, members of their families and other persons prohibited from applying this agreement after a transitional period which ends on 31 December 2020. The revision of the law brings with it a number of changes and legal effects not only for the citizens of the United Kingdom but also for citizens of the European Union in the area of e.g. changes in the names of documents issued to family members of European Union citizens who are not European Union citizens. And so on. The name of the permanent residence card of a member of the family of a citizen of the European Union for the permanent residence card shall be changed. The Act harmonises the format of documents issued to citizens of the Union and to members of their families who enjoy freedom of movement. Until now, certificates of registration of a European Union citizen's stay have been issued in paper form, without security and without photo. The new rules allow for a fingerprint image to be displayed on a residence card and on a permanent residence card, as well as on documents to be issued to citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. New conditions for refusal of a visa for a family member of a European Union citizen who is not a citizen of the European Union are introduced, inter alia. for false testimony, for the presentation of forged documents or where the purpose of applying for a visa is to circumvent the law. It also makes it possible to issue a certificate confirming that there is a presumption against a citizen of the European Union or a member of his family that they are victims of trafficking in human beings within the meaning of the Penal Code. This will allow such a person to exercise his right, among others. to social assistance in the form of crisis intervention, shelter, meal, necessary clothing and special allowance. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the law also introduces new solutions for the Border Guard's powers. The Border Guard will have the right to conduct an environmental interview and to verify the whereabouts of a European Union citizen in case of suspicion of a fictitious marriage. These are sensitive actions that alter or substantially extend the role of the Border Guard. Will the legislation prepared so late ensure that border staff are properly prepared to carry out this task? The authority competent to issue a decision on expulsion of a European Union citizen and a non-EU family member has also been amended. So far it's been a voivode. According to this law, it will be the commandant of the Border Guard or the commandant of the Border Guard. We hope that, in this case, border staff are prepared for this. Dear Mr Marshal, High Izbo, to conclude, I would like to say this: I believe that this law should be supported, especially since the transitional period after the brexite is in force until the end of December and it is therefore important that the new rules be properly implemented since the New Year. But as usual, the government postponed the presentation of a project of solutions to come into force in a few weeks. Once again, the question is: are the Border Guard and other institutions prepared for these changes? I'm afraid they're not. How typical it has been for five years: everything is on its head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senators Alexander Sweed, Benjamin Godyla and Mariusz Gromko have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the act on combating doping in sport. The text of the Act is contained in print No 280 and the report of the Commission In print No 280 A. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the honourable Senator Robert Dowhan, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The amendment of the Act of 21 April 2017 on combating doping in sport adopted by the Sejm introduces amendments adapting the provisions of the Act to the revised version of the World Anti-Doping Code and international standards which were adopted at the World Anti-Doping Conference last year in Katowice. In order to achieve these objectives, the opinion of the Act modifies the definition of the period during competitions and doping. With regard to the first term, the law amends the way in which the period begins during the competition, introducing a rigid deadline: 23.59 p.m. on the day preceding the competition, while the understanding of the professions has not changed. So far, this provision refers to a 12-hour time before the competition. The existing definition of doping in sport has been supplemented by a new premise. An action to discourage or threaten a person who is in breach of anti-doping rules by a player or another person who is associated with a player or his team or even an outsider will be considered as a doping in sport. At the same time, the condition of Article was modified. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 3 so that the behaviour of avoiding a physiological sample, not allowing a physiological sample to be taken or not to be taken without valid justification after prior notification to the player of the selection of a physiological sample by the person authorised to do so will be considered as doping in the sport. Sports are considered to cooperate with a person helping to prepare for competition, who has been punished with a disciplinary disqualification penalty for doping in sport or has been convicted or proven to be involved in a behaviour considered as doping in criminal proceedings. The Act aims to ensure the institutional and operational independence of the Disciplinar Panel by removing from the tasks of the Council of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency the right to evaluate candidates for members of the Disciplinar Panel. The Act also modifies the regulations governing the activities of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, introducing the obligation to apply technical documents defined by the World Anti-Doping Agency during anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players and during activities related to ensuring correct analytical results. The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2021, except for the amendment contained in Article. Point 1 (7) of the amendment shall enter into force on 2 January 2021. The Sejm adopted a law at its first 20th meeting on 27 November 2020. The comments of the legislators, which were tabled and discussed at the committee meeting, were that this is being done. What did Senator Jazłowiecka report to you in the case of a previous act? At the last moment, because anti-doping regulations are due to enter from 1 January. So if the legislative process, which is very narrow at the moment, had been properly preserved, these rules would not have been right, because there is time for legislation in the Senate, then it is time for the President to sign it. So just for the last minute... And this is one of the issues that violates, as it were, the constitutionality of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u61	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Anna Krupka like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u62	Dear Marshal, High Senate! At the World Anti-Doping Conference in Katowice, in November 2019 an amendment to the World Anti-Doping Code and its associated international standards for combating doping in sport was adopted. This amendment provides for, inter alia, for the implementation of this amendment. changes to the definition of doping indicated in the Code and changes to certain definitions of concepts used in the Code. The amendment of the Code will enter into force on 1 January 2021. Until then, individual countries should adapt their rules to combat doping in sport to the new code. The amended act on the amendment of the act on combating doping in sport is precisely aimed at adapting the Polish law to the provisions of the revised code and was agreed with WADA. The small scope of the amendments introduced by the Act discussed today is due to the fact that many of the issues envisaged by the revision of the World Anti-Doping Code are already present in Polish law. This is proof of how modern the Polish anti-doping regulations are and how good work was done by the Ministry under the direction of Minister Witold Banka and the Polish Parliament, preparing and adopting a law on combating doping in sport. I would like to stress that the fight against doping in sport is a priority of the Polish government, as well as of all parliamentarians and the whole sports community in Poland. Therefore, I kindly ask the High House to vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u63	Thank you. Minister, just a moment, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of questioning related to this item on the agenda. I have a question for you. Minister, it's December 17th. We have a bill, an important bill, because she's not just making changes... she's introducing an extension of the concept of doping... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport Anna Krupka: Yes.]] ...to those who have so far been difficult to pursue, punish, i.e. those who assist in this doping, but also those who do not submit to research, hide somewhere in far Asia or in the vastness of Russia. That's what happened. The Sejm passed the bill on November 27th, and it came to us... We're gonna make it up to her... we're gonna make it up to her, basically. Today or tomorrow, or December 17th or December 18th, and it is to enter into force from January 1st. My question to you is simple: is it a delay, because it is a clear delay The issue is clear as regards the extension of this concept, about this anti-doping law It is related to the reorganisation of the government and to some mess that this reorganisation has caused, among others. As far as the Ministry of Sport is concerned, which led this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport Anna Krupka: No.]] Please. Well, what are the reasons? Is it a delay? If not of those, why? Is it a delay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u64	Mr. Marshal, on the contrary. This delay is due to the pandemic, from all the losses that also affected the Ministry of Sport and which the former Minister of Sport had to face. First we had the freezing of Polish sport, then we unfreeze Polish sport basically in a month. It was also a difficult year for Polish sports and from the point of view of people managing Polish sport. Absolutely not true what the marshal said. Since Prime Minister Piotr Gliński was appointed Minister of Sport and entrusted me with the procedure of this law, I have taken this law as a priority and things have gotten faster. So it can even be said that this reorganisation and this reconstruction has accelerated the process of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u65	Thank you, Minister. I asked the question and answered that it wasn't true what I was asking... Well, that's your answer. That's not exactly... that's inappropriate. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senators Mariusz Gromko and Aleksander Szwed, as well as Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Maciej Łuczak spoke in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 288 and the report of the Commission In print No 288 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport concerning the Law on the revision of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration, contained in print No 288. High Senate, the purpose of this law is primarily to optimise the charging system for advertising of alcoholic beverages and to create such conditions as to enable effective recovery of charges by tax offices. These standards will also contribute to the efficient handling of entities that make advertising fees for alcoholic beverages, as well as to the faster impact of funds on the separate bank account of the Sports Activities Fund for Students. The Act introduces a regulation whereby fees for advertising of alcoholic beverages will be paid to the tax office by which the tax head responsible for these charges is, of course, carrying out his duties. They shall be brought into the account of the tax office to which the declarations on those charges are made. Until now, the fee declarations have been made to the tax office and the fee itself has been applied to an isolated account which was created for this purpose by the Minister responsible for physical culture. So there's a change here. Then the heads of the tax office will transfer the fees paid for advertising alcoholic beverages to the Sports Activities Fund for Students and will do so within 14 days. In addition, this novel amends the entity which will be authorised to specify the model for the monthly summary declaration on the advertising fee for alcoholic beverages. At present, such power shall be exercised by the Minister responsible for physical culture in agreement with the Minister responsible for public finances and, following the adoption of that law, shall be laid down in the Regulation of the Minister responsible for public finances, which shall consult on this matter, shall communicate with the Minister responsible for physical culture. The Act will enter into force on 1 April 2021. No amendments were tabled during the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Sport, and no doubts were raised about the project, and the committee therefore recommends it and asks that the High Senate adopt this law without amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, in many schools, physical education and sport are still treated as a stepmother, hence the extracurricular activities are extremely important for young people, because through these classes young people are also pro-social, pro-sportatively and pro-healthly. Tell me if the Ministry accounts for the use of the Student Sports Activities Fund. Are there any criteria? Are there any rules? What is the distribution of these funds? Is that what the Ministry is clearing up for the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. It's a very important voice about what might be an imperfect state in terms of physical fitness, how children and young people work in schools, expressing regret that this activity is not what it should look like. But it's also a good question. And I'll ask the Minister that question, too. The point is, unfortunately, it's as if the rule has become that the funds that are being distributed And these are either government funds or, as here, funds that are subject to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. sport Unfortunately, for a few years they have had very little transparency, so to speak. Actually, there's an application. And then information on the principles under which these proposals will be assessed and what criteria are applied by the various ministries when assessing such proposals is, as if, secret knowledge. Unfortunately, it is equally difficult to find out what choice has been made. Either they are transparently transmitted, or they simply do not exist. And that's why it's hard for me to answer that question. It wasn't at the committee meeting either. I ask that you also address this question to the Minister If you don't mind me asking for one of these... But indeed the transparency of the various funds... Besides, we have information about the government's local investment fund, about the second hand. We know how this funding took place for various municipalities, our local governments. And it is worth asking such questions, but already individual ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. As I can see, there are no more senators willing to ask questions. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u72	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The draft law amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration aims to optimise the system of collection of fees and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism, and to create the conditions for effective recovery. It has been proposed to collect declarations and contributions within a single body, while keeping up to date the deadlines for the submission of declarations and making the payments due. Currently another entity receives a fee, i.e. Minister and other declaration related thereto, i.e. I'm the head of the IRS. The connection of payments with the declaration will improve the transfer of funds from the fee to the Sports Activities Fund for Students and the recovery of charges by tax offices. The fee for advertising of alcoholic beverages will be paid to the separate account of the competent tax office following the transfer of the declaration related to it and the proceeds of that fee will be transferred by the heads of tax offices to the Sports Activities Fund for Students. This will also be beneficial for entrepreneurs, who will follow the declaration to the same addressee in keeping with their previous deadlines. Then I kindly ask the High House to accept the bill. In response to the question asked about the Student Sports Fund, I would like to say that we spend over 20 million PLN on this fund this year. Within the framework of this fund, we run actions such as the Universal Swimming Science Programme, I can swim or activities promoting and disseminating winter sports, corrective gymnastics, compensatory sports. Open call for proposals... The funding is organised and awarded according to the criteria set out in the programmes. The Ministry of Sport is based on programs, programs are the basis of our actions, within the framework of programmes we allocate funds, as in the case of a program that distributes funds from the Sports Activities Fund for Students. The programmes are based on transparent criteria, which can be read, for example, on the website of the Ministry of Sport or in the Public Information Bulletin, which I encourage. Of course, each programme is later included in our budget report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u74	Thank you... [[Turn on the mike, please.]] It's on now. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Questions to the Minister, I have a few short questions. First: what will be the estimated annual income from the Sports Activities Fund for Students after taking into account the proposed changes in the Act? That's the first question. Second question: what is the distribution of funds from the Sports Activities Fund for Students? Who receives these funds? Are these youth sports clubs? I'm asking because according to my knowledge in clubs like this, unfortunately, there's not enough money. Next: are there up-to-date data indicating how much money is currently spent on sports clubs by the Ministry? And last question: does the Ministry plan to reduce grants from the Sports Activities Fund to students from about 28 million to 21 million PLN, due to the fact that the percentage of children and young people aged 11 to 17 who are engaged in physical activity in accordance with World Health Organisation guidelines has decreased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport Anna Krupka: Excuse me, can I answer...]] Excuse me... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport Anna Krupka: Can I take the floor?]] Yes. You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Nearly PLN 18 million is the amount of revenue in 2021 for the Sports Activities Fund for Students. For sports classes for students will be allocated 16 million PLN, and for public health tasks 5 million PLN. The senator asked about sports clubs. The funds we spend on sports clubs are not from the Sports Activities Fund for Students, but from the Physical Culture Development Fund. But thank you very much for this question, because in 2020, this year, we have allocated to small and medium-sized sports clubs from the Government Program of the Club, which has been prepared and which has been operating since 2016, a record amount of PLN 55 million. All clubs which formally submitted applications to the programme were supported. These clubs were exactly 4,000 902. So that there was record support under the club program. Support for sports clubs comes from the Physical Culture Development Fund and there was a record number of clubs that were supported by it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, among the biggest advertisers among beer producers are such as the Piwowarska Company, which increased its advertising expenditure from January to June this year compared to the same period last year by more than 8%. Among them are Grupa Żywiec, Carlsberg and Brewery Namyślów. And among the biggest issuers of these advertisements are television, radio, magazines and billboards. Statistics show that the number and duration of advertising spots on television has increased by four times in the last four years. Please tell me, therefore, what was the income of the Polish Television due to the issue of these advertisements. Because such information is published, that in 2017 Polish Television earned about 70 million PLN on alcohol advertising. And how Poland's Television fulfilled this tax obligation from e.g. 2017, i.e. in the years 2017, 2018, 2019? If there is data for 2020, I will also ask for it. You mentioned that the tax revenue for the children's sports fund in 2020 is expected to be PLN 20 million. However, if all expenses for the first half of 2020 of those entities I was talking about, i.e. television, radio, newspapers, magazines or billboard advertising were taken into account, it would be expected that these would be revenues to the fund at the level of PLN 35 million. So this noble purpose, which is laid down in this law, and which, of course, is worthy of the highest praise... Well, there will be quite a slow impact on the increase of these funds for sport of children and young people. But I ask the Minister to answer only questions related to the implementation of the tax obligation in this area by the Polish Television and to ask whether this increase in funds allocated to the sports fund will be allowed to do so. Because so far, since the year 2016, they have remained at more than 19 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u80	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Senator, As far as the first question is concerned, I don't have that kind of information. We do not have such information as an organ that operates the Sports Activities Fund for Students. As far as information on the amounts in the fund is concerned, at the moment These are the planning numbers. We can only plan what will happen in 2021, and of course we will see what the situation will look like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor and ask the question of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I was already talking during the report about the fact that we are getting a lot of signals that the Ministry unfortunately does not publish data on the distribution of these funds. Access to this information is very difficult, everything is not transparent. We get information that applications have been submitted that have not been accepted and then no information has been provided as to why individual clubs have not received this funding. That's why I'm asking. I'm not asking you to give me that information right now. I'd like that information in writing. I ask for this information, because unfortunately, from 2016 to 2020, it is generally about how many applications have been submitted and how many have resulted in funding. But I would also like to ask that in the case of Dolnośląskie voivodship this be divided into information about what applications have been submitted, which projects have received funding and what criteria have decided to allocate these funds. So I ask for general data from all over Poland during this period, but also for details of the Lower Silesian voivodeship from 2016 to 2020. I ask for full information about the projects that received the funding and the criteria that decided to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: This will be a written reply.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u84	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Senator, All our programmes are based on transparent criteria that we present, for example, in the Public Information Bulletin or on our websites. It is the same with the decisions of any programs. We will, of course, address this question in writing, but we can also now, at this point, simply show your senator the place on our website where such decisions regarding programmes based on the Sports Activities Fund for Students are published. There is published information about recruitments, criteria, any decisions. It's all very transparent, everything is available on our website, in the Public Information Bulletin. There are specific criteria and decisions that result from these criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u85	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u86	Minister, thank you for this information. Of course, I still expect what I asked for. I want to tell you that I've been asked by clubs that, unfortunately, couldn't reach this information. It's not my idea. It's what I was asked to do. From the information I received, it appears that the projects that should receive this funding have not been qualified. And there's no information on why that happened. And I'll remind you just one example. Well, at the beginning of this year, the Minister came to my hometown and met I'm sorry, but I have to say this. With the policies of law and justice. At this meeting, certain clubs received funding, of course, on the cartons that you have been driving all over Poland for a very long time. We do not know on what basis these clubs were eligible for funding. We asked the Minister, but the Minister couldn't answer. We know how it happened because we know the specifics of the place. We know that these were purely political criteria. The checks that the Minister brought in were only meant for those sports clubs that supported President Andrzej Duda in the election. That's why there was no answer later, no information. I expect that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u87	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: It was another Minister. Well, I'm explaining that the Minister should know...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u88	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The senator was talking about the last Minister of Sport, and I know it. Besides, I wasn't in your hometown. Well, I've got a ruling in front of me that's on the Ministry of Sport's website. Here are the decisions on the selection of proposals for the implementation of sports activities for pupils in 2020, e.g. those aimed at promoting winter sports. Well, that's the kind of data I have in front of me. Everything is available on the website. And there's a very important thing that needs to be emphasized. The criteria on which the programmes of the Ministry of Sport, including this programme, are based are derived from the Act on Public Use. Thank you very much. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: I just showed you an example, so tangible that unfortunately it is not. Thank you for that information. This may have been working for some time, but this example at the beginning of this year shows that this was not the case. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! In December of this year the deadline expires, the implementation of the National Health Programme ends. From next year... I hope there's a new multi-annual programme prepared. My first question is: does the Minister even participate in the design of this national health programme? One of the first overarching objectives of this programme was to combat the obesity of children and young people. The programmes implementing this strategic programme paid particular attention to physical activity. Unfortunately, after these 5 years it turns out that the National Health Programme did not meet its expectations, there was no evaluation of it, and the individual programmes were apparently programmed badly, because not only do we not have inhibition in the area of obesity of children and young people, which was even worse in indicators. It is estimated that about 70% children and adolescents are overweight or obese. Physical activity is one of the most important elements and in this National Health Programme we have put a great deal of emphasis on achieving this goal. My question is: is the Minister involved in the drafting of a new national health programme and what new solutions for physical activity have you proposed? If the Minister is unable to answer that question right now I understand that it goes a little beyond today's topic, but it does involve spending money on health programs, but I ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, the government is committed to a written reply on this matter. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u92	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said, "I suspect you've just slipped your tongue." That you spend 20 million on this fund for this year. As I understand it, you're expecting the next year's $20 million. At the same time, you said that PLN 55 million was used this year as regards the sports fund. I'd like to ask you why it's so different. Well, over 60%. You're less planning on raising money and spending it on all kinds of activities. You also said that the funds were given to clubs that made formal applications. I would like you to tell me what mistakes clubs make, whose formal conclusions do not meet the conditions. I would also like to ask if these clubs have the opportunity to correct, supplement these proposals. As I understand it, it is only about formal issues, however, in order to receive funds. How much time do they have to complete these proposals? I would like to extend the request of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, who asked for a list of clubs from the Lower Silesian Voivodeship which received funds. I would like to extend it to the whole of Poland. I would like this list to include clubs that have not received these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u93	Thank you, ma'am. I ask the Minister to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u94	Senator, let's get the facts straight. The club program I was talking about in response to a question asked by one of the senators, this is a program... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Minister. I would very much ask the senators not to speak during their speeches, because we still have a small parliamentary room and discussions during the debate make it very difficult for others...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[...to participate in this debate. You're welcome, Minister.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, as far as this amount is concerned, about PLN 21 million, this is, of course, the amount for next year's planning. And that's the amount from the Student Sports Day Fund. I, speaking of the club program, answered the question of one of the senators. The club programme is based on a completely different fund. These are funds from the Physical Culture Development Fund. It's a completely different fund. We have allocated a record amount of PLN 55 million this year for the club program. It is a government program supporting small and medium-sized sports clubs. Within this amount, we have supported 4,000 902 small and medium-sized sports clubs, those who have made good formal applications. What were the formal errors? As with most programmes, e.g. on the absence of a set of documents or on one issue arising from the criteria of this programme. I mean. There were clubs that weren't able to, for example. indicate the amount of public support received in the preceding year. These are, among other things. formal errors, but of course also other ones, already related to legal categories, to persons who should sign documents and who did not do so, i.e. problems concerning representation. These are 2 completely different programs. The Sports Activities Fund for Students... And what Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska asked... The senator talked about a list of all the applications that were positively considered under these programmes based on the Student Sports Activities Fund, rather than talking about the program "Club," which is financed by the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. [[May I fill in, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u96	Mr. Marshal, I would therefore like to clarify my request for information. Well, I would ask the Minister to extend the information on the funding from the Sports Activities Fund for Students to the whole of Poland, not just the Lower Silesia region. But I would also ask the Minister to give us the information which clubs have received from the club programme and which clubs have not received the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u97	Thank you very much. Will the Minister reply in writing or now? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport Anna Krupka: Written.]] It's written.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u98	Of course, I'll answer in writing, if that's the will, then of course we'll answer in writing, why not. Nevertheless, all this information has been available on our websites for some time, which I stress once again. But of course, we can also answer in writing. There is a list of clubs that have received funds, i.e. those 4 000 902 clubs that have met the formal criteria, which have fulfilled the requests well formally. There is also a list of those clubs that have failed to formally comply with their applications. So it's all there. But of course, if that is the will, we will also make it available to you again, to ladies in response to these questions. These are competitions that are based on transparent criteria about which information from the beginning of the announcement, through decisions, criteria, data on which entities have received funds and which have not received funds... It's all on our websites. I also encourage you to visit these pages because there is still further information about the new programmes that we are announcing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let me go back to the money that's being placed on television for beer commercials. These measures, which are placed on television for beer advertising, are significant and all this indicates that in 2020 it will be almost PLN 700 million. And this is one of the main sources that are the proceeds to the student sports development fund. Therefore, it is important to know how this tax obligation is fulfilled by our public television. The Minister said you were not in possession of this information. I therefore ask that the Ministry, however, take possession of this information. I realize that this is not possible today. I therefore ask you to give me a written reply: how much has public television earned since 2017, and how has this tax obligation for children's sport been fulfilled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u102	Dear Marshal, Senator! I will, of course, also answer this question in writing if you ask me to. Entities providing advertising services pay 10% off For the Student Sports Day Fund, but it doesn't have much to do with what you're talking about all the time. We're not the right person to deal with this kind of thing, what you were talking about in the context of television. So, of course, we can answer questions about the measures that affect us, which is 10%. from advertising from those entities that do this, and of course we do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to providing a written reply... [[Senator Hare's voice:]] Excuse me. Senator Józef Zając wanted to ask you a question. Excuse me, senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u104	Hello, can you hear me? [[Yes, sir, you're welcome, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would just like to remind the Minister of the case that I reported a year ago at the science committee meeting. The Minister promised me an answer. I haven't received an answer so far. The case concerned the financing of academic sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the Minister like to comment on this statement by the senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Academic sport is financed by the Physical Culture Development Fund. Today we're talking about the Student Sports Day Fund. So that academic sport is financed by the Physical Culture Development Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u107	Thank you very much. There are no more senators, I understand, wanting to ask the Minister's question. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Beata Małecka-Libera, Danuta Jazłowiecka and Ewa Matecka. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! This may not apply to this point, but I would like to say that once again we have appealed... We also called for this during the process of coviding laws. We keep asking the Ministry to bend over to this bill that we're considering today... Of course, it covers a very wide range, this sobriety education bill, but it was created a long time ago when there was no internet. And there are industries, such as Polish winemaking, which currently do not have the ability to sell, which have very small and limited sales opportunities, because sales are limited only to vineyards or specific shops. Now, during COVID-19, when shops... restaurants or bars are eliminated when it comes to sales, this sale is really very small. This applies to alcohol up to 18%. The point is that the ministry should once again bend over to us several times, we have tabled amendments on the issue of online sales. The fact that the bill was made when there was no Internet can't rule anything out today. This environment, especially the environment of Polish winemakers, is in a really short-lived situation. We know these ads show up, but it's done on the border of the law. That, of course, threatens to take away the license, but people are in such a situation today that they just have to sell their goods somehow. Today in Europe... And yet we are part of Europe and, as I understand it, we want to be. Well, at least that's what I want, like most of my environment. In Europe, this sales are also made via the Internet. It's absurd to say that people under the age of 18 have access to it. I mean, you have to use the card, you have to pick up the package from the courier, and so on. No one will bother to wait a week for a bottle of expensive wine. So this is totally absurd. Of course, various web-site security features can be introduced. But I'd like to ask you here again... Yeah, people are watching us on the Internet. We're looking at a change in the sobriety education bill, which, of course, has nothing to do with sports. Well, it's hard to imagine that sports would be funded by alcohol, although that's the truth. So there is such denial: on the one hand, a healthy way of life, and on the other hand alcohol. As a man of sport, I look at it with surprise, just as I was surprised to see that a healthy lifestyle... Well, since monkeys are very harmful, and Poles buy monkeys instead of bigger bottles, a tax has been imposed called a monkey charge. We already know that from 1 January there will be no bottles of up to 300 ml, because producers will start betting on 310 ml, thus avoiding this tax. Well, I'm not surprised. Everyone's trying to find their way into this tough market. No wonder people are trying to find new solutions here. Of course, this is good for the consumer, because the consumer will buy a bigger monkey at a lower price. But aside from that, once again, I appeal... Perhaps you'll lean on it or hand it over to the appropriate office or department. The idea is to lean on online sales of alcohol up to 18%, which is already possible worldwide today. I mean, we buy all the goods online anyway. You could easily rule out a person under the age of 18 who shouldn't buy alcohol. I think we can work on that. Since the beginning of the COVID epidemic, various people in the Seym and the Senate have tabled such amendments. No, among others. PSL is fighting hard for this, so I'd ask you to... maybe after New Year's, we can change this bill in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of the announcement of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. The text of the Act is contained in print No 279 and the report of the Commission In print No 279 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Health Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 27 November 2020 amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. The Senate Marshal sent the Act to the Health Commission on 1 December 2020. It was examined at its meeting on 8 December. The Commission calls on the High House to reject the law in its entirety. During the committee meeting, of course, there was a discussion on this law. I would like to present to the High House 3 important arguments, 3 reasons which have decided that the Senate committee has made such a decision. Well, first of all, these are essentials. The Act liberalizes the principles of recognition of qualifications in medical professions and the admission of persons from outside the European Union to work on our Polish market. I would like to remind the High House that similar changes, also liberalising the rules for the recognition of qualifications in these professions, in particular concerning the profession of doctor, have already been adopted in the last law, 28 October. This law is, therefore, a kind of deepening of this first law and extending its solutions to other medical professions, because it does not only apply to doctors, but also to nurses, paramedics and medical diagnostics. The purpose of this law is to allow people to work here, in Poland, who can be admitted to work on the basis of certificates. But the requirements here are ambiguously defined, and the lack of confirmation of Polish language knowledge, means the possibility of contact, as if it justifies the whole and is an argument indicating that those who will come to us do not meet the quality criteria and requirements that we expect from our medical professionals at the moment. For many years, medical authorities have been very keen on the quality of their medical services. One of the factors determining a well-managed medical service is also the qualification of skills, skills of medical staff. We have respected these requirements and standards very strongly, also meeting a number of EU requirements and standards. Therefore, there must be no agreement of the medical community that people who come to work in our country, such requirements and such standards should not meet, including what I stress, in terms of Polish language skills. Another thing that really bothered us, and it appeared in this project, is so-called. supervision of people who will do work here in our country. Because supervision must be regulated by law, it must be clear who and how such supervision is exercised. Please remember that we act in a specific time, we act during an epidemic, when of course we have a problem of lack of staff, but also all decisions made by the medical community, by employees are quick decisions, because it is a state of emergency response to life and health threats, so none of the doctors currently working, diagnostics, rescuers have time to control, supervise, follow steps by step their actions, and yet have language problems. Therefore, there can absolutely not be such a situation that someone would undertake supervision of another person, especially because there are no detailed rules, regulations. Currently, there is the possibility of supervision in law, e.g. over an intern, but there is a list, there are clearly lists of activities that an intern doctor can perform. And in this case, because of the urgency of the actions, because of the excessive number of different activities that are done, saving lives and health, it will be difficult to assign such a list to each employee. Thus, in this respect, the medical and nursing authorities absolutely and very strongly oppose the quality of the profession, the quality of the service offered. This is the first and very important, most important argument that was raised during the committee's work and is an argument that speaks absolutely against this law. And the second point, which is no longer connected to the process of law enforcement at all. Well, High Izbo, this is a parliamentary project, and yet another parliamentary project. We are very surprised that such important solutions, really very important from the point of view of health safety, are being tested in this mode. That is the responsibility that the Ministry of Health must assume. This country is creating health policy, and even if it is necessary to act quickly, it is not so that all very difficult decisions are taken without consultation, through the parliamental environment. Who will be responsible for the mistakes made by these people? When we proceed in such a mode, I will call it, in parliamentary mode, then ultimately the Ministry of Health is not responsible for the records that appear, because it can say that this is a law that has been prepared by Parliament. This is not the way to proceed, and yet on such important issues. In my personal assessment of these kinds of projects... Besides, this isn't the first project to come up on medical staff and health safety. It's just a big, big improvisation. There's no strategy here, there's a little bit of a connection between one and the other law that's supposed to improve this system. Why don't we just agree that... this parliamentary project is really about a very important issue. We are aware that there is a problem with medical personnel. We are also aware that this is a long process, that we need to come to this step by step, build the necessary staff elements and resources. But the situation is extraordinary. So why aren't we taking advantage of the opportunities we have now, our staff, who meet all the requirements? I'm talking about nurses here. In Poland there are about 3 000 nurses who are educated, but did not undertake to pursue their profession, for example because of lack of motivation or lack of funding. There is also a group of young doctors who failed the final exam, but these are already educated people who can be adapted in some way. I know, the Minister nods his head that here... there are certain things that appear there, there are possibilities. Yes, Minister, if this law were to consist of records which are logical and which we can accept together as a medical environment, we would vote for it. But precisely because it is a parliamentary project, you have placed such records in it and such arguments, with which the medical community absolutely cannot agree, and it is on the medical shoulders that the fight against the epidemic and against the threat of life and health of Poles is still on the shoulders of the medics. The summit is that, on the basis of this project, agency agencies are already officially appearing, which will mediate the recruitment of employees of individual medical professions. And we probably wouldn't have anything to do with these agencies, because these agencies, of course, operate on the market, we know that such agencies are, only that the responsibility for the employees who will be brought to Poland is not on the agency, but on the directors of the entities in which these employees will be employed. The summit was already to submit proposals for amendments to the committee, which allowed one or the other agency to send. The Minister at the meeting of the Health Committee said it was only a loosening of the rules. No, High Izbo, this is not a loosening of regulations, this is an agreement to reduce the quality of service, and these are two completely different things. And the third element, the third aspect For this reason, we can also absolutely not agree to this. These are constitutional charges raised by our Legal Office by our lawyers. From the very beginning, the Health Committee believes that 2 conditions should be respected. One: we consider all projects in terms of the patient's safety, health and life. The patient is most important to us. And the second element, which we have been very defending from the very beginning, is the compatibility of the act with the law and with the constitution. Unfortunately, this project, Minister, in many respects violates the principles of the Constitution. I am already overlooking the fact that the whole process of making this law, as I said, did not retain the required mode. Amendments were tabled at second reading, were not discussed at committee meeting, went beyond the subject matter of submission, etc., etc. Plus, there are other broken articles, e.g. Article 2 87 constitutions in which it is written... It is a matter of failing to allow for the regulation of matter of a general nature in a document which is not of such a nature. It's also an art. 17 of the Constitution, which refers to the role of professional self-governments of persons engaged in public trust professions, which is the exercise of care over the proper performance of these professions. Here, in this project, this standard is unfortunately disturbed. Here's another point. Of course, there is a short vacathio legis, but it is also about equalizing the position of a doctor and dentist. This absolutely violates the laws and therefore cannot be our consent. The assessment of local governments was devastating. It is simply stated in the opinion of medical authorities that such legislation poses a direct threat to the life and health of patients. All these arguments which I have put forward came to a committee meeting and the committee has made it clear that it is in favour of rejecting this law. I hope, Minister, that you share the views of the senators and also believe that this project is not a good project. I am aware that there are 2 articles there, which are very important e.g. For the medical community, but this is not the way to create the law. 3/4 of the law must not be drafted in such a way that it is absolutely a violation of the laws, regulations of the constitution and regulations of medical authorities, in such a way that the law is inconsistent with our professional policy, and in one provision add something good and say: yes, and the Senate did not want to vote it out. No, we vote on the entire bill, we examine the entire bill, and we refuse to reduce the quality of medical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Paweł Rychlik was authorized to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Mr. Messenger. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The amendments proposed in the draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure that, during the period of notification, the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel is in particular aimed at adapting only health legislation to the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. The provisions concerning medical staff, doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, paramedics are intended to enable medical personnel from so-called medical staff in the Republic of Poland to work on simplified working rules. third countries, i.e. outside the territory of the European Union. In addition, those provisions introduce rules simplifying the rules for the return to the medical profession for persons who have a break in the pursuit of a medical profession longer than 5 years by replacing the obligation to engage in professional training under the supervision of another person performing a medical profession. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the Senators, this record is above all an opening to doctors from across the eastern border, from Belarus, Ukraine. Already in Poland, more than 500 doctors are waiting for their diploma to be nostriched. They could be working in the system today, fighting the coronavirus, unfortunately, through procedures they can't do it, they're just doing other professions, often unrelated to medicine at all. After the proceedings both in the Sejm, in the Parliament's committee and in the Senate's committee for Members in various electoral districts... I have some examples, too, that nurses who for economic reasons have abandoned the profession of nurse... The frequency of this was very high during the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, when nurses from hospitals came to work, for example. in shopping malls. Today these ladies, thanks to these simplified procedures, want to return to their profession, because today the salary of nurses, although of course still unsatisfied, is much higher than that of governments. The Act of 27 August 2014 on the provision of public-funded healthcare is also amended. In addition, the implementation of courses for medical dispatchers and voivodship medical rescue coordinators is planned to be postponed to 1 January 2024. Further amendments to the Act on State Medical Rescue are intended to harmonise the requirements for the head of the primary medical rescue team. This law is a number of provisions that will allow easier coordination of the fight against the coronavirus, but above all will allow these necessary health care systems to work quickly. Therefore, despite these opinions, the concerns of the honourable representatives of the Senate Health Commission, I ask the High Senate to take a positive view of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u113	At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of applicants related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u114	I'd like to ask the senator the applicant... [[Messengers.]] Excuse me, Member of the applicant. ...the problem that Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera has already pointed out, but I would like to ask about it from a legal point of view, not a medical point of view. Mr President, in the Sejm, you introduced the possibility for temporary employment agencies to work in hospitals of nurses, doctors or paramedics. That's the question. Because in my opinion, And tell me how you've done this analysis. There is a danger that there may be a situation in which the hospital will have no influence on who will be sent to work by the temporary employment agency. The mechanism, in a very simple way, is as follows: the employer declares the demand for a given number of employees, specifying the position and qualification requirements, but does not have the slightest influence on the selection of a particular employee, as in this respect the agency decides. Although temporary employment agencies should, of course, verify professionally and meticulously issues related to competence and experience in the recruitment process. However, given the uniqueness of these professions and the fact that it is a question of the life and health of citizens, I ask you to give me a detailed response to the mechanisms for verifying these qualifications. Was this the subject of your interest at the time when you accepted such a regulation? And, of course, also the question: whether, in view of the fact that the work of such employees in the event of a medical error, the doctor who provides benefits to patients on the basis of a contract of employment concluded with the hospital, only the hospital, you provide financial support, e.g. Some kind of government fund? This is about the case of medical errors and support for institutions which will employ medical staff in this way, due to the dramatic situation, of course, related to the reduction of human resources. Is the government in this area, because I understand that the parliamentary project has the support of the government... Do you, as the representative of the applicants, know... [[The question lasts a minute, Mr. Senator.]] I'm sorry. Do you know the arrangements for the possible support of institutions in terms of legal liability for the work of these people?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to answer me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u116	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in replying to these objections from the senator, I would like to emphasise... These objections were also made in the Sejm. Unfortunately, one of the Members said that shamans would be imported to Poland. That's what he called doctors, among other things. from Belarus, Ukraine, from other countries, that's what he called the medics. It will be the hospital director who will decide to hire a given physician, a given doctor, and there will be none here, so to speak, regulation or division or any sending of a given employee without the consent of the director of the medical entity. The agencies that will carry out the recruitment of these employees will do so primarily to ensure that the director of a given district hospital, smaller or larger, does not have to look at the international exchange for names and specific specializations, specialist doctors. The point is to get these agencies to do it here. And that's procedure. This is a phenomenon that is normal all over the world, not only in the medical industry, but also in other industries. As far as the competences of these workers are concerned, I repeat that it is not that if a doctor comes here, suppose, from Belarus, and submit documents, they will not be verified. In the Ministry of Health there is an appropriate department, the appropriate department, which will verify this. In this draft law, which you are familiar with, it is precisely defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you ask Senator Kwiatkowski an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u118	I would like to ask the applicant. I appreciate your sense of humor, but I didn't ask about the shamans. I am asking about a very serious issue related to life and health of Poles and Poles. Temporary employment agencies. I've just got a list of who they're hiring in practice. Mostly construction workers, cleaning companies. I can show you this list, and it includes the number of people employed in these departments. You introduce into the system a highly specialized area of knowledge needed to perform medical professions, temporary employment agencies. Therefore, my question is: does the Polish State assume any responsibility for verifying how these people are employed by temporary employment agencies? Unless your answer is no, we take no responsibility for it, that's what the agency of temporary employment is for, and at the verification stage at the time of employment she is responsible, and in the supervision of the duties of the hospital. And that's an answer too. Just give it to us honestly and don't tell us about the shaman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u119	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm really... This is not an expression of my sense of humor, but these are the words that the Member of the opposition spoke about doctors. They are often Poles who study in non-stationary studies, which are simply paying to study medicine in Lviv, Vitebsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, other places, other universities. And they often have a problem with simply starting medical practice in Poland and often need to use various tricks to work in Poland as doctors. It's just about that word I said. It is not my word, it is simply a quote from one of the Members of the opposition. But I repeat: the law contains clear, transparent, transparent rules for admission to the labour market of doctors from third countries outside the European Union. We have representatives of the Ministry of Health with us. There's the director who's in charge of the medical staff. I don't think anybody's gonna put this situation and the rules any better...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u121	Excuse me, Mr President, I would like to make you aware that you are the rapporteur for the parliamentary project. The government in this case is the third participant in our conversation. He can, and that will do with the Minister's mouth, assess your project. I'm guessing, like everyone in this room, that he's gonna judge him positively. But you, as I understand it, are not suggesting that this is a government project. Because let me remind you that if it were a government project and it was presented in the Senate by a government representative, this project would be subject to a different parliamentary procedure. [[Okay, well, Mr. Marshal. I'm in your room for the first time, and since I'm supposed to answer on my own, there's no problem.]] Mr. Ambassador, this is not on my side... [[But...]] Let me explain. This is not on my part any harassment towards you, but respect for your role as rapporteur, as I understand it, of the rapporteur of the Sovereign MPs of the Republic of Poland who have submitted a bill, which was subsequently adopted by the Sejm. Well, it's not a government project. So please, sir. In this debate, he gave an answer on the extent of your responsibility by respect for you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u122	I understand, Mr. Marshal, thank you for this attention, for some faux pas I apologize. And I'm getting back to the subject. It is not so, Mr. Senator, I will try again, once again to dispel your concerns that the qualifications of those workers who will come to Poland to work in the health care system will not be verified by the appropriate... I'll find it in the bill in a minute. It'll just be verified. In addition, the medical authorities, because it was also raised at committee and senate meetings, and the Sejm That will be the consent... that they will be registered in the register of the right to pursue their profession. So it's not like the local government is kind of outside of any... doesn't affect who's going to work, practice, suppose, medical admission. So there are many, say, fuses that will ensure that the admission of these workers will not adversely affect the level of medical services provided in the Polish health system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Let me ask you a question as a senator at this point. Well, there are two issues: the legal issue and the medical issue. I, on the basis of your speech, Mr President, will ask a logical question. Namely, you have been gracious in your speech devoted, I would remind you, to the bill to submit a specific assessment to which you have the right, of course, of previous governments, the governments of the PO-PSL coalition. Abstracting from the fact that the pandemic that we have in Poland and which is the direct cause of our conversation today, the previous coalition has nothing to do with it. If it has something to do with something that is an aspect of this debate, then with our membership in the European Union. And certainly the previous government and opposition confess. And you were gracious to say that there is now a joyful return to the work of Polish nurses, who were forced by the previous government to resign from their work, that they are now returning to it. On a logical level, I'm asking you the question: why, then? Since governments are so great that within 4 years, Polish citizens are eager to work in the Polish health service To open up this labour market, very sensitive, to the citizens of foreign countries? Why, if, thanks to the great rule of law and justice, nurses are willing to go back to work themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u124	Mr. Marshal, this bill, as you said the senator, your colleague, Senator Kwiatkowski, is a very serious matter. And I don't think irony or any ridicule is appropriate. And the facts are this, Mr. Marshal, the facts are this, not different, they just show it as indicators, parameters, they show how much the nurses made a few years ago, and how much they make today. Unfortunately, it has to be noted, that the staff collapse in the health care system in Poland is a pedestal of negligence, one can say, many, many, many years, both predecessors, mentioned coalition and previous negligence, and it cannot be reversed within a month. I will just point out that since 2015, when the government of Beata Szydło, then Mateusz Morawiecki, was founded, to this day there has been an increase in the number of medical students, as I remember correctly, from 6.5 thousand students to more than 9 thousand. This is an increase of 30% of the number of students of medical faculties at various universities in Poland. This also involved the creation of new departments, e.g. in Opole. That's the first line. Second point And that is the fact that hospital directors are talking about this, both connected with the current authority and those who have different political preferences, is that simply nurses who used to leave Polish hospitals, because their wages were very low, today they are returning to the profession. And when it comes to those nurses who haven't worked in the profession for more than five years, these are the solutions that allow them to be easier. I'm talking about nurses first of all. Back to Polish hospitals. I think it's logical. And openly, you can say, the medical labour market is connected with the fact that the staff collapse is huge, and especially in the epidemic, especially in the covid era, we should take this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask Senator Wojciech Necessary to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, I have a question for you. Who's gonna pay the temporary employment agencies to hire these doctors? I'll tell you right away that I'm the director of the hospital, and this agency came to me, and I know, but I want to see if you know. Second question. What are the trade unions' opinions on hiring doctors, nurses, rescuers through temporary agencies? Can you tell us what their opinions are? Third question. How long do you and the applicants think we're gonna hire doctors, nurses, midwives, paramedics from abroad? I mean, you just have to say it, 'cause if you make a bill like that, you probably have some assumptions, and I'd like to be able to check it out in a little while. What are your predictions? How many of these people, let's assume, in the first quarter of next year, will we hire under this bill? How many doctors, how many nurses, midwives, how many paramedics? Thanks to this knowledge, I will be able to address the issue of the effectiveness of this law after some time, let's say, after 3 months. So I'd like to... Today I would like to know the assumptions behind this bill. I will answer if you allow Senator Kwiatkowski, because, I have the impression, he did not get an answer to his question. The civil liability for the employment of these temporary agency workers will be borne by the hospital, as stated in the Act. It is simply stated that this civil liability will be borne by the hospital. I think that's the answer enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u128	Thank you, Senator, Mr. Director, for reminding me. I didn't answer that question to Senator Kwiatkowski. Yeah, civilian responsibility is taking over the hospital. The costs of hiring a doctor will also be borne by the hospital, which means simply the agency will pay the hospital. As for the expected number... Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the possibility, by loosening this right, of coming to Poland as medical professionals from outside the European Union. We have no contingent of doctors standing in line waiting for this bill. It's a possibility. It's hard to tell if it's going to be tens or hundreds or if that number of doctors and nurses is going to exceed a thousand. It's hard to predict. We are talking about the possibility of these doctors coming to Poland, not about some, say, contracting work. It's hard to tell at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. [[Sorry, Mr. Marshal, I still had a question about the trade unions, whether it was consulted with them and what is the opinion of trade unions on the use of the services of these agencies.]] Thank you, Senator. As I understand it, Mr. Senator, that's why, among other things, I suppose, the procedure to proceed over this bill is this. In view of the parliamentary initiative, Because it does not, at least at this stage, necessarily involve public consultation. But you're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u130	The Health Committee has received opinions from different sides, opinions from local governments, trade unions, and they are divergent. The medical community, on the one hand, is positive about these proposals, on the other hand, very strongly... not so much emphasising, which even alarms about this staff collapse in the health system. The bill is a solution to these personal, staffing needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for the opportunity to present the position of the government. It was not possible to discuss the provisions of this law during the work of the Parliamentary Committee, as it was immediately requested that the draft be rejected at first reading. In fact, we have not been able to discuss the details, the substance and value of this bill, which has been submitted by your Members. As for this creature, I think we all agree that we cannot wait for the education of doctors, the people who will protect us, for 10 years. It cannot be that during these 10 years of training we will wait and do nothing to combat the pandemic. We're just gonna wait. Here we need completely different actions, fast, efficient. One of the elements has already been implemented, i.e. a law that allows the admission of doctors from outside the European Union. The bill in question extends this circle and makes it easier to accept doctors. But it's not just doctors, it's also nurses who haven't been in the laws so far. And, which is very important and rather undisputed by medical environments, it also allows for the return to the profession of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, medical rescuers and laboratory diagnostics after a period of more than 5 years without having to pass exams, only under the supervision of a person who will coordinate the work of such a person returning for a period of 3 months. As the Ministry of Health, we have a lot of information that such people would like to return to the labour market, they would like to help in Poland and work for our common good. So that these are some of the very important elements, which is the expansion of a group of people... As this is very important, it is necessary to quickly recruit medical staff. And that's what this bill makes possible. But at the same time I would like to point out that during... this law also provides for many other very important elements. What this law draws attention to, i.e. the extension of the funding period of specialists' doctors in the field of additional remuneration, financed separately from the National Health Fund, for specialists who work in one workplace, amounting to PLN 6 000 750... These are completely separate measures, targeted separately, exclusively at this professional group. In the event of the failure to adopt this law, well, simply medicinal entities will not have targeted measures. Therefore, they will perhaps reduce doctors' salaries back to those before the adoption of the law, i.e. by around 30%. So this is... At this time, it would be very bad for us to make such a move so that you would vote against the bill, in favour of reducing doctors' salaries. Because this is a very important time, now that such movements should not be made. The same applies to the proposal to extend the period of acceptance of the remuneration of all personnel, which is financed separately by the National Health Fund, namely doctors to whom this period is extended by law, as well as nurses who have under general contract conditions, in the regulation of the Minister of Health additionally financed salaries from the budget of the National Health Fund, and also medical rescuers. These salaries since July 1st... They can't be reduced. Well, by denying that right, we can expect different situations. I would not want the situation to actually deteriorate, the situation of medical personnel, all medical personnel, and you would like to say, you can vote, the Health Committee has put forward such a proposal. The same goes for... what the trilateral committee was very much asking for, the representatives of various medical professions... The aim is to ensure that the Act on Minimum Compensation in Health Care applies not only next year, but even in the following years, i.e. that further increases in wages are possible with an increase in the minimum wage in health care. And, of course, what's important for paramedics is to allow paramedics to normally work on medical shifts and normally get paid. Like any other medical staff, i.e. doctors, nurses with a higher education. And it is also important that these people have the same rights to function in this respect. What else is very important? Also in some districts, in some voivodships it was not possible to take over the medical dispatcher. There was a deadline until December 31st this year. So that some voivodships will remain without a medical rescue system. This is also a very important element in the health system and it would be worth maintaining the medical rescue system. That's why I think And the government, too. That we should vote in favour of these rules. There are also many other things in this bill that improve the situation of patients during this covid system. As you have seen, the government has very strongly focused its activities on the computerisation of the health system. This has helped many things to succeed, but not yet everything works the way it should. And among others. In addition to the prescription, in this case it is very often used, we still have, so to speak, such narrow throats. It goes on for example. orders for medical devices which are not fully computerized. We wanted to run it now urgently so that it could be realized as well. And this is also a very important period. And that is why I would like to say that this is very important. The main comments that were made at the Health Committee's meeting concerned only the provisions relating to medical personnel and even parts of those provisions. In fact, for 31 articles, the main allegations concerned the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, the Act on Medical Chambers and, respectively, the Act on Competitions of Nursing and Midwives and the Act on Nursing Chambers. So these 4 laws were such a major spiritus movens in terms of rejecting the proposal, rejecting those provisions and not being able to vote on those provisions, which are very important in order for the Sejm to decide for itself on the individual provisions that have been regulated in this law. So that's... The questions were detailed. Of course I listened to them. As far as job agencies are concerned, this is, of course, just an opportunity, another possibility. The first basic principle pursued by healthcare providers is to hire their employees for a contract of employment. This is our primary, recommended and, we believe, the main direction... But in addition, there are also employed persons engaged in economic activities. Many doctors are employed on a case-by-case basis, and in cases where they are not individual, we are faced with group practice or a medical entity employing individual staff. It's possible today. But there was a request. In particular from temporary hospitals, because they are unable or unwilling to engage in the recruitment of staff, to have a single institution to take over the organisational part of the recruitment of medical staff for them. And that's actually at their request. We've had a lot of reports, including a union of county hospitals or a joint government and local government committee. These institutions have asked us to make it possible. So that the first law, which was prosecuted in the Seym, met these expectations, and this law changing the situation of the directors of these hospitals is even better. It's an additional opportunity for hospital directors, there's no obligation to do that. If I may, I would ask the honorable senators, the honorable Senate, to support this law and allow the swift entry into force of these provisions, because they are expected. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u134	Minister, I would like you to have the absolute conviction that the questions I am asking are even related to the fact that I have not yet made a decision, contrary to the suggestion that has been made here, as I will vote on this bill. Before making this decision, I want to have absolute confidence in whether this law increases or reduces patient safety. Hence my questions, which concern e.g. verification of competences. Temporary employment agencies have been mainly employed by physical workers until today, and I'm not going to give a list of professions here. They do not have experience in verifying knowledge as specialised as medical knowledge unless they only verify the formal documents presented by the applicant. That's why I'm asking. Is the state as a government Of course, it is a formal parliamentary initiative, which provides for some forms of supervision, support, verification, so that I can say a reliable check on how their duties will be carried out by temporary agency in this regard? We're not talking about a hypothetical situation. Today a temporary hospital is being established in Opole, which already uses the services of temporary employment agencies to recruit medical personnel. Hence my question: do you, as a government, provide for any form of verification of the performance of your duties by temporary employment agencies that will employ medical staff? And one more little extra question. We have regulations that say that a temporary worker This is the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers, which can work for 1 employer for 18 months, for a period of 36 months. Today, in practice, this period is an average of 3 months, and I have verified data, information from placements. Are you predicting some kind of perturbation due to the fact that such a large rotation of medical personnel is detrimental from the point of view of e.g. care for patients with chronic diseases? Do you have any ideas on how not to cause any further problems from the point of view of patients? Whether you have any ideas in this area or, for example, Are you going to change the Act on Employment of Temporary Workers?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u135	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u136	Thank you, Senator. As regards the catalogue containing the data of persons from whom the temporary employment agency may use, these are persons who have made themselves known to the Ministry of Health with all documents confirming their entitlement to pursue the profession of doctor or nurse. And we verify that, our department is already cooperating in this area, we already have diplomas nostrils, and we know those documents that work on the market. And if necessary, we will always be able to verify the case through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and through our embassies, because the government has the opportunity to cooperate in this respect. Therefore, we first agree to exercise... the right to pursue our profession, that is to say, we pass this information to the medical center. And only among such persons can a temporary employment agency propose specific persons. In addition, the hospital director normally signs a contract with a temporary employment agency Although, as I said, we'd prefer it to be a direct employment... And here is the digression: on the basis of that law, which is already in force, we already have 30 requests from people outside the European Union to start work, which, at the request of hospital directors... i.e. The hospital director signed a prose with someone like that to hire her and that he wants her at his hospital, he wants to train her. Of course, if such a person, who is employed by a temporary employment agency or directly by a hospital, does not guarantee the quality of the health services provided, if we have such information, if we get information from the employer, then the Ministry will at any time be entitled to revoke the entitlement of that person. And this is the main, most important part of the withdrawal by the Minister of Health of a decision that was previously issued. That's the most important thing. Of course, the hospital director signs a contract with the temporary employment agency and he's the employer. And when it comes to this range of 18 and 36 months, we hope that this will not be a permanent solution, because we see that the best solution is when such a person works as a full-time worker, i.e. it has a large number of hours because it is very important to be educated in procedures, in IT systems. Therefore, we want this person to work as a one-time worker. But very often, medical personnel work over-staffed, including on medical duty. We know that people from Poland who worked abroad often wanted to Did everyone want to? To have a little more hours to work to make better money so as to make the best pay possible for the start. So that we hope that the people we are talking about will either work at least on a job or work more, and that it will work for more than 18 months. Of course, those people who will be employed are not specialists. That's even... If someone has a diploma and is a specialist in another country, in the meantime they must normally nostrifies this diploma, so that this person cannot be employed as a specialist under this law. He's a normal, normal doctor, also for this maximum period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u137	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the law that we are talking about today is undoubtedly needed. Such a law was needed a long time ago. Another, better and much earlier adopted. Medical and managerial environments in health care have often talked about this. But today we have to debate this bill that is sent to us. Unfortunately, the rapporteur does not know how many and when we will have health workers through the introduction of this law. If we introduce such a law, we should do so on some basis. We introduce a lot of variable elements here. Indeed, there are many votes against, whether in the medical chambers or in various organizations. So now that we're doing something like this, we're taking some risks, actually hiring medical workers from outside the borders and simplifying their employment, we should know what the effect is, although approximately. I'm afraid that no one knows, and therefore these data are not provided so that we may not be able to verify them sometime, verify whether this bill has given us something good. If we hire 100, we'll say that without this bill there wouldn't be 100, and if we hired 200, we'll say that without this bill there wouldn't be 200, so there'll always be success. But that's not how it's supposed to work. Success would be if we fulfilled some assumptions, but they're not here today, so this success isn't really going to happen either. Well, it's weird in this bill. The rapporteur also spoke about hospital directors in the context of nurses and their return to work, their satisfaction and the fact that it is different now that they do not go abroad so crowded. In fact, they don't leave so crowded. But I would like to tell you that in turn they are suing, they are filing documents, wanting to enter into a collective dispute with the hospitals' directors, it is a nationwide action, because they feel, however, not as good as it is officially said, because if they did, they would not have taken such action. During the epidemic, their responsibilities were doubled, both for nurses who work with covid patients, and I don't need to explain the stress and the circumstances of COVID as well as for those who took over the responsibilities of COVID, which is often double-workers... Well, their wages, their job satisfaction, their working conditions are not as good as the words of the Member could be said. This is why there is a protest, unfortunately, during the pandemic, but it is the fault of the rulers who have not published a bill giving the opportunity to raise salaries for all health professionals. Now we're gonna have this effect, and whispering reality, telling nurses they're working well and they're very happy, they're not gonna make things better. I would be in favour of dialogue, understanding, trying to improve what can be improved. In fact, there are positive things that can be seen. E.g. Simplifying procedures that allow you to return to work after a break or even return to work for people who have never taken up a job is good, it was also expected for a long time, so that we can commend you for it. However, it is very strange to level the responsibilities of doctors and dentists during the epidemic. Well, that record's curiosity. If we have another epidemic that's going to concern me, of course I'm joking a little bit, but just a little bit. Any medical conditions within the cavity, teeth, etc., is the ophthalmologist's or doctor's powers of internal illness equal to that of the dentist so that they can treat these diseases? Well, it's two different competitions and an attempt to equalize them and indicate that dentists can treat like surgeons. whether the S.O.R. doctors or others... Well, it's just a wishful thinking and something that's completely disconnected from reality. These are other studies, they're shorter, they don't cover a number of cases. So, unfortunately... The next thing everyone's talking about is a statement that there's language knowledge. Well, I'm gonna say as director, as an intern, as a doctor, as well as hiring people from across the eastern border... I'd prefer such a statement that he doesn't speak a language. Or that she knows, but in order for it to be possible: she knows or doesn't know, because if I know that she doesn't, I'll find her a job at the hospital, which is very likely, where you don't need to know the language and you can work as a doctor. Of course, to some extent, under control, of course, but it could really be done. And if someone signs a fictional statement that they know the language and then comes out that they don't know it, it's really gonna be a dangerous situation. You had to either leave the exam here or make a statement about the degree of language skills. Even if someone wrote that they didn't speak a language, it could be handled. And what you have done will result in the exercise of fiction, the more that temporary employment agencies will participate, and they will certainly take care of their profits and ensure that they do so in an appropriate manner. Well, we all know that. What are these agencies for? I don't get it at all. You say that these doctors from abroad are the same doctors as Polish doctors. In a lot of cases, I agree. But why do Polish doctors not have a temporary agency? Why doesn't a Polish doctor apply to a temporary agency after his studies and after his internship? Why isn't he looking for a job like this, just finding it normal? It's the 21st century, and any hospital can post an announcement on its website that it wants to hire doctors. Just write down what documents are needed. The state should take care of the verification of these people. Well, before anyone answers the hospital's offer, it should be verified. That would be enough. There are doctors and nurses, there are other organizations that can help, and you're charging the hospital with paying these agencies, like hospitals have money for it. These people could be won at no cost. If they had permission to work in Poland, given in one simple way or another, they could simply be hired, just as we hire doctors from Poles. But there will be temporary employment agencies who will make money on it. I can't understand it. It's the 21st century. In addition, it states that they are not subject to public procurement law. It's just in case there's no inconvenience. Well, civil liability will be borne by hospitals that hire such a man. So you've created the perfect conditions for institutions that aren't needed at all. You have created a country of greenhouse conditions for some temporary work agency, which in the case of doctors are absolutely unnecessary. It is very good that there is this recipe about PLN 6,000 750. Well, it's December, and we know there was a great deal of anxiety among doctors, among the medical staff. No one knew what was gonna happen to those accessories. But you forgot to raise them by 10%, 20%, 30%. There's an epidemic, there's a difficult situation, so it's worth appreciating the doctors and the other staff, the nurses or the paramedics. And you keep everything at the same level as it was introduced. It's been a long time. Well, that's too bad. I urge you to keep that in mind. When it comes to directing doctors to the S.R., I feel very good that such a recipe comes in, because at the moment some doctors end up specializing without working at the S.R., and in many cases this job is... This is just an emergency room where a doctor should learn his profession. He should be taking patients, he should be assessing their condition, not just getting them diagnosed. Without going to the S.R., without knowing the specifics of working in the S.R., the doctor will not know one of the main areas of medical work, i.e. He's not gonna learn how to diagnose patients. Very well, this should be included in the program of almost every specialty. A man who has no contact with a patient brought in an ambulance, and then wants to be a surgeon, an orthopedic surgeon, a neurologist, a cardiologist or anyone else, will never be a full doctor. So it's very good. Nevertheless, you forgot... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time is running out.]] I'm on my way to the end. You've forgotten... Well, you didn't forget, but you put in place a suspension of the labour code's provisions on overtime rates at the S.R. or elsewhere. And that's not understandable anymore. You let me work, but you don't want to pay. It has already become a tradition: to make work possible - Yeah, I'm gonna pay. No, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to assess this law positively, among others. because there were a lot of constitutional remarks during the proceedings of the Health Committee. Several points have been identified, which unfortunately do not deal with constitutional rules. Although some really needed legislation is included here, it would be very difficult to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I listened to the Minister's speech just terrified. We're in the middle of a pandemic. Poles are dying in Poland, 665 people died yesterday, today 431. Yesterday 12,000 454 people fell ill, today 11,000 953. These numbers are scary. And we're getting a parliamentary bill, which the Minister of Defense is like a redeemer. The question is, why? Because this bill is a bad bill. You should not defend such a law, Minister, in which the vast majority of records lead to a reduction in the quality of medical care. That's why I started with this pandemic, because in a pandemic, we should do everything we can to save every human life. It is not possible that staff qualified for work I'll talk about it later. In such a way as it is written in this law, it has played the role as necessary, and it will also be a burden for the already drinking Polish staff, who would bear the responsibility, educate, help these people. That the staff is tired... I'll read you a piece of the letter from the nurses. After 7 months of pandemic, it would seem that no one in Poland needs to be persuaded that nurses and midwives can be extended to all medical professions, to doctors, to all who work at COVID, are most at risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2 virus. The autumn increase announced by experts shows us how not prepared for this in the right way, and the government in haste and chaos is trying to make up for lost time. Which I'm sure this bill is an example of, because if you're defending it like that, then I think there's something going on. I read further: "In our eyes the medical staff, which also suffers from COVID-19 or is in quarantine, and due to staff shortages, the remaining persons are moved from the troops to the troops. Several of our friends died of an infection at work. It's really about all the medical personnel. And what does this bill offer us? A law that is undoubtedly suitable for throwing into the basket, because it is not an argument that there is one positive record about finance. There was a bill that you rejected, and there was a Senate amendment, which offered to increase the salary of all medical personnel working at COVID. Why did you reject this amendment? And now you're making a bill, five or nine, that's a pretty weird change. And now let's go through the particular errors that are here in all these records. The change concerns 18 laws, and I'm not going to replace them here. This is a dramatic reduction in the quality of the services provided, as according to current regulations every doctor from outside our country who is employed must pass the nostrilization of his diploma. From noster, i.e. ours, and faces, i.e. make. This procedure recognises the validity of degrees, professional titles and other titles held in other countries. Poles used to pass LEP until 2012, and now it's gone into LEK. And shortening, flattening this entire qualification will cause us to accept doctors, nurses, people in each of these professions who are probably unable to match the currently working team, still working at the rate at which we work in a pandemic. And it's really scary. Exactly the same thing. I don't agree with the previous speaker here. It concerns staff, e.g. doctors who have lost their right to work. Ladies and gentlemen, today, five years in medicine is a gap. These are other diagnostic methods, other medications. Well, to introduce someone who hasn't used headphones for five years and doesn't know how to do it, it's... I understand that somewhere in the brain there's definitely something there. It's like riding a bike. But this isn't the moment to teach these people. I would never have agreed to stand in front of my kids fighting for their lives after five years of break at work without any training, without... and who's gonna do that now, in a pandemic age? Or even more dangerous is the situation with Coronavirus when the patient is still at the limit of life and death. Exactly. Like I said, it's for dentists. Well, ladies and gentlemen... I'll read what our Polish law says. According to the regulations, the doctor is obliged to examine the state of health, identify diseases and prevent them, treat and rehabilitate patients, give medical advice... Tell me, is the dentist going to be all right with a patient from COVID-19? Well, I'm sorry, he can't handle it. Absolutely, there's no way that... it's hard for a general doctor to get into a particular specialty today, let alone a dentist who deals with the oral cavity, and now he's going to take care of the entire person. And that also required... Anything is possible and, of course, it could be done. Maybe it had to be done a long time ago when there was time for training, but now, in such a difficult situation, this possibility should not be. And wasn't it necessary, Minister, to do so, to give very high rates to all those who are employed in connection with COVID-19, and to tempt to come to Poland high-shelf medics, and to make them nostrils as they should be? That's what nostril procedures are for. They are sharp, therefore often fall out of employment in Poland... I can say that at the Medical University in Wroclaw, which I represent, 14 medical examiners from different countries often went through only 2 and the rest fell out, which means they had to learn. It's all necessary. You must not dramatically reduce the level of treatment of the sick in a day when they are fighting for their lives. This is every mistake... Maybe instead of these 600 and 400 patients, we'll have twice as many of them if, instead of an educated staff, they stand next to sick people who can't really take care of them. And it's not true that programming minima, similar trainings are all on paper. In neighbouring countries, this is the same as a well-employed doctor who knows the medical practice. As far as the patient is concerned, the devil is in the details. Any detail can affect life or death if this patient is suffering from a disease such as COVID-19 caused SARS-CoV-2. I think this bill is good for basketball. Everything Senator Malecka-Libera said It's probably gonna make it stronger in a little while. It is right, and this bill really needs to be thrown in the trash. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u142	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was not to speak in the debate because I am the rapporteur and I have tried to address all aspects of this project, but you have provoked me, Minister, with your speech. With all your sympathy for you, but, Minister, there's no agreement from me and no agreement from the Senate committee that you blamed the Senate and the senators for not getting a raise. Excuse me, but this is the job of the State, the Ministry of Health, not the Members. So, what, now the Members are passing laws that determine the amount of earnings? After all, you are creating health policy and everything that comes with it. So please don't blame us, pointing out that we here, on the Senate committee, as senators, do not want to support this bill. This is a law not about earnings, but about hiring medical personnel from outside the European Union. This is the clou of the whole project. And the fact that you've added two articles that we agree with... Because we agree, yes, we agree with the raises, and with the solution to the problem of dispatchers, the dispatcher in medical rescue. Well, it's your problem that you agreed to put two records in this mishap. That's your problem. And I'm not gonna let the Senate get the message that we in the Senate blocked the salary increases for medical personnel. There's no agreement, Minister. You're the wizard of health policy. You are responsible for the salaries of the staff, the Minister of Health, as the country's chief physician, should be responsible for the health safety of the society, but also for the care of the medical staff. And that is absolutely the task of the state. And you're using words like that that because we don't vote it out, we're gonna reduce doctors' salaries, we're gonna make medical workers worse. That's your problem, not ours. We are considering the law on the employment of foreigners, the employment of doctors, medical personnel from outside the European Union. And this is the clou of today's bill. So please do not make us guilty that you have not made sure of what you should do in due course, in appropriate amendments, in appropriate regulations, and what you have not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor remotely. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, actually, in this discussion, it's all been said. I'm appalled, devastated, disgusted. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm out of COVID disease, quite severe, and I'm infected with patients. Throughout the pandemic period, I've heard that I don't work with patients from COVID. But it doesn't matter anymore. The important thing is to get back to work and at the hospital and at the Senate. You do absolutely everything not to take care of Polish medical staff, Polish doctors, nurses, rescuers. You didn't do anything about it. Even your friend Viktor Orbán did it because he stopped the medical staff, evening his salary. I've said that many times in my speeches. You're talking about the rights of the doctors who are coming. Our colleagues from countries outside the Union... We respect them very much, but we need to level the curriculum in education. Because like Professor Chybick said, we're face-to-face with a patient who needs help, and there's no room for mistakes. None! Yes, the rights, but also the responsibilities of these doctors and someone from the practitioners working in the hospital must take responsibility for it. It was mentioned today, Minister, Senator Kwiatkowski spoke about this responsibility. Who's gonna take responsibility when the medical staff gets out because they're sick? You're saying that without this bill, you won't be able to open a dispatch office. This is bullshit! In my town, in Podbeskidzie, where there are many tourists, because there are Beskidy, the PiS government has destroyed the helicopter. These aren't arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief one, because many arguments have already been made. As an active doctor, I start to worry seriously about Polish health care. Ladies and gentlemen, there have already been Polish exams for people applying for a job with us and during the exam in the medical self-government the doctor could not distinguish between anaemia and ischaemia. These are real, practical problems. What is the point of this legislation? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, could you be closer to the microphone? 'Cause sometimes the voice disappears.]] Good. This law is only supposed to introduce further health protection rules to combat COVID. The main objective of the Act is to introduce simplified working rules in our country for medical personnel from third countries. In addition, the Act significantly simplifies the principles of the return to the medical profession of persons who have a break in their profession longer than 5 years. It's a chasm. Medicine is like pendolino. You have to jump in, learn, educate, and match up with others. This is where it is about replacing the obligation to be trained in the profession under the supervision of another person performing the medical profession. And this is where my fears are born. Can we be sure that such persons are qualified, trained, possess the full knowledge necessary to save human health and life? There's a pandemic. This isn't a joke. The lack of confirmation of competence in such medical personnel may result in further development of the epidemic. This means that there is no 100 percent safety for patients, and we also impose further obligations on the medical staff who will have to supervise the work of such a person. It's an extra burden, not real help. Moreover, it is once again a great testimony of how Polish doctors are treated, as I said, Polish nurses, Polish health professionals. Do you know where our Polish qualified nurses are? Why don't we bring them here, encourage them to work with us? Of course, abroad or working in another, profitable profession. Some time ago, the President signed the Act of 28 October 2020 amending certain laws in relation to the crisis prevention of the occurrence of COVID-19. In this law, there is a record that students of medical professions and nurses and midwives can be assigned to work in the fight against epidemics. This provision has not yet been implemented for real implementation and further possibilities have already been examined. I feel like the government isn't serious about human health and life. Another important question is: Who will be responsible for mistakes? Who will pay compensation if necessary? This bill is unacceptable, causing chaos, disorganization and many fears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Benjamin Godyla and Alexander Swed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Marek Martynowski has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u146	Yes. I would briefly like to refer to what you have said here, Senator Alicja Chybicka, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera and Mrs Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, have said all the time, and I would also like to stress that we believe that these regulations are important and improve the health situation in Poland. Specialization... the nostrilization of a doctor's diploma takes several years, and these people do not work at that time, they work in a completely different profession, unrelated to medicine, or sometimes in a hospital competition not directly connected... not in a nurse's, medical, but as paramedics where there are no such strict requirements. So an intensive care anesthesiologist has the right to be a paramedic, possibly a locker room or to do a different job, and with a much lower salary than a doctor... And yet, he could work at that time and do a degree nostrilization. Same goes for people who come back after a five-year period of unemployment... Today, on average, it takes about 11 months without job opportunities. It's hard for people who have a good job. They often work in the pharmaceutical industry, which we know would like to return to work, have constant contact with the health system, very often with the most modern pharmacotherapy, have full information about how the health system looks, travel abroad, see the systems for a year to give up work and prepare to obtain permission. So that I would like to say that this bill is indeed a vote. Like any law, it is created and approved by Parliament, by the Sejm and the Senate. Also, this bill that talks about keeping doctors' salaries... There's a proposal for the Senate to reduce salaries for medical personnel, and that's how it is... I'm just saying that we support the proposal not to do it, but you think it's better that way at this difficult moment. Director Necessary said what is no longer in the Seym's submission, because a doctor, a person who works at the S.R. and works on medical services, is paid normally, according to the labour code. In fact, we have seen the problem here when working in the Sejm and Members have tabled an amendment. All the Members voted in favour, gave a positive opinion, and this change has already been clarified. Of course, there were also proposals for other changes made by your director, Senator Necessary. The point was that the S.O.R., the E.R., is the heart of the hospital and that people who specialize also have specializations there. I think that in the work on the new programming base, which is now very advanced and which must be completed this year, we will also take this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u147	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Grant Act for certain entities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 283 and the report of the Commission In print No 283 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The Committee on National Economy and Innovation considered this law at its last meeting. This law generally provides for the extension of funding from the state budget of 4 entities until the end of 2027: Salt Mine, Salt Mine, Wieliczka Mine, Coal Mining Museum in Zabrze and Sulfur Machów Mine, formally in liquidation, in Tarnobrzeg. The law which provided for the financing of these entities was adopted on 30 August 2013, and the end of it, so to speak, is the end of this year. The government legislative initiative envisages extending or extending the funding period for these entities by the end of 2027. These are entities that carry out activities such as the Wieliczka mine known to us, such that you can visit this mine, but you have to be aware that this part to visit is about 2 the entire surface. The extraction of salt has been there for centuries, so there are powerful areas that simply need mining protection. And that's why it's the support of the state budget. This law did not cause any controversy. At the committee meeting, two senators took the floor. The Bureau formally did not make any comments or proposals for amendments. There was just a remark that, of course, there is a constitutional deadline for the President. The point is that we want this law to be passed this year and that this funding will continue and, therefore, if the President wishes to make use of his full constitutional time, he will certainly pass it on December, the last day of December of this year. In this regard, Mr Małecki spoke at the committee meeting, which was connected remotely from the Ministry. He claimed that the Ministry had already prepared this amendment in September, but because of the COVID, all the more urgent issues related to the autumn epidemic have been dealt with in this case. The Minister also expressed his conviction that the President would certainly show understanding on this matter and that, as soon as this bill hits his desk, as we expect, he would not want to use his 21-day period to check it, to analyze it. An application for adoption of the law without amendment was submitted, unanimously and unanimously, by the committee was supported. So the committee's recommendation is that the High Senate approve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u149	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Soboń is with us. You're welcome... Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u150	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the position of the government and the government's draft amendment to the grant law for certain entities. This is about securing all the work related to the decommissioning and security of mining sites, which today operate primarily in the tourist dimension, but in order to be able to carry out all these work, whether it is related to dehydration or with the protection of these areas, additional financial expenditure is needed, which from this tourism cannot be financed, because this obviously exceeds the capacity of these operators. That's why... This is the continuation of the project, which has been in operation since 2014, a project that provides funds for the operation of these entities so that they can carry out their tasks related to this security and decommissioning. These are the units mentioned by the Senator, the rapporteur, the salt mines Bochnia and Wieliczka, the Sulfur Machów Mine and the Guido Museum in Zabrze. Places that require additional resources to ensure safety there and to ensure that these tasks can be carried out. The Industrial Development Agency in Katowice will look after everything, for which we have also written down little resources to monitor, verify, control the scope of the tasks carried out so that public funds spent in this area are spent in a rational and correct manner. Thank you very much. And I'm asking you questions, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u151	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. Senator Wojciech Piecha It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have a question about these grants. Grants for the period 2021 to 2027 for the various operators covered by this programme are high. Will these grants be settled separately each year and will the unused money be paid to the budget in a given year, or will it be possible to use it in the longer term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u153	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u154	Thank you very much. The programme is intended to be multi-annual. He is financed in the form of subjective grants. They are defined, well, the substantive scope of the tasks that can be carried out is defined. These grants are, of course, higher than those which have so far been earmarked for this purpose, but probably still lower than the needs that these individuals have in this area. So I don't expect these limits to be consummated by these individuals. But that is why we have introduced a multi-annual programme to save these limits for the next 7 years, so as to give here the financial perspective of the ability of individuals to carry out these tasks in the following years. And these measures are limits written down for individual individuals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u155	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Artur Soboń: Thank you very much too.]] For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Mariusz Gromko and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy. The text of the Act is contained in print No 289 and the committee report In print No 289 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jack Bury, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act currently under investigation is a law which adapts certain references and terminology previously found in this Act to those which were adopted later. No amendments or comments were made at the committee meeting. The whole committee was very positive about this law, because it is, as I said, ordering, and it was adopted unanimously by the committee. And we recommend that we adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota was authorised to present the position of the project's applicant, the Parliamentary Committee on Petitions. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? There's no envoy. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the government on the Law on the amendment of the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on the Municipal Economy. As the rapporteur said, the bill submitted covers only changes of an ordering nature, they are not substantive in nature, they are merely adapting to the current legislation. They are an obvious consequence of changes that have taken place in Polish legislation over recent years. Well, as a result of this amendment, it will improve the coherence and transparency of the law. With this in mind, the Council of Ministers has a positive opinion on the bill presented. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a quick question. Well, if you're saying they're just changes in order, then I don't agree with you. However, reducing the Director's check-in from six months' salary to three months' salary is a substantive change. I don't ask where it came from anymore, but it's not just a matter of ordering the text. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Andrzej Śliwka: If I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u161	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, in the article. 12 acts on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities are indicated forks up to three times. We, through this amendment, adapt this provision relating to the State Enterprise Act to an act which is a more extensive act. There cannot be a situation in which a more detailed act provides for a rigid six times, because it conflicts with an overriding act which simply says that forks are valid from one to three times. This amendment is tidy, not substantive, because issues related to clearances... Such a briefing could not be given at the rate of six times the salary, because the act I mentioned, the act on remuneration, says simply: from one to three times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. You can see that this is actually an act of ordering. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of the senators have come forward for discussion. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm managing a five-minute technical break. We're going too fast, we have to wait for the next rapporteur. I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 27 to 14 minutes 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 246, and the committee's report In print No 246 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! High Izbo! The joint committees of 10 December of this year considered the draft law presented by the group of senators at first reading and requested the adoption of the attached draft law without amendments and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. In 2019 two parliamentary decisions were amended by the rules governing personal income tax. This was a damage to the income of local government, which has a 50% share of this tax. The estimated income losses amounted to more than PLN 6 billion. This was so painful that it took place during the financial year and the multiannual financial forecasts had to be revised. Let me remind you that they are mandatory for local government units and often relate to a far-reaching perspective, much longer than four years old. The initiative of the Senators Group aims to increase the share of local government units in income tax revenue from individuals. This new share was calculated in such a way as to compensate for these losses in each group of self-government units, which resulted in 2 statutory changes to this tax in 2019. So-called. PIT revenues are treated as own income of the local government, but the local government does not affect the amount of this tax. Once again, it was strongly exposed just last year. I will mention that this year there are again changes in the area of this tax and again a significant reduction in the income of local government units... The draft of this law does not cover the changes that took place this year. During the meeting of the joint committees there was a very broad discussion. This discussion, in my opinion, was of particular value because it was based on the statements of experts from NIK, regional accounting chambers The basis for this discussion was the report prepared by local finance experts, the secretary of the joint committee and at the same time the director of the Office of the Polish Cities Association, Mr Andrzej Porawski, and Mr Maciej Tchaikowski. In this report, which is at your disposal, I encourage you to study it, is shown a change of structure, among others. revenue of local government units in recent years, in fact in quite a long period, since the introduction of the Act on income of local government units in 2004. This is the time-cure we refer to, and there are no subtexts in that, because such a discussion also took place at the joint committee meeting. The share of grants has increased. This is one of those things that you can clearly see in the report. The reason is the obvious transfer of money from the state budget to the budgets of local government units under the 500+ programme. The scale of this transfer is huge for the budgets of self-government units, because it is over PLN 40 billion. This is almost as much as the investment expenditure of all local governments in the course of the year total. Well, these defects aren't just due to the reasons I've been talking about. There's more of them, and they're also described there. What is less said and should be very exposed in this introduction, and in the discussion, is an increase in expenditure. Those expenses are increasing. Well, maybe not only, but mostly there are painful ones in education, because they grow, among other things. the remuneration of teachers and educational staff. Well, that's a good thing, but that's not fully taken into account by education subsidies. So that more and more money spent on education comes from the income of local self-government units, and as these are limited, there is a collapse in many municipalities. This collapse is illustrated by the operating surplus, especially the net operating surplus, i.e. taking into account the liabilities of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. I can tell you that according to this report this year, this operating surplus... I'm sorry, in 2019, because he has full data. At that time, this operating surplus was negative for 357 units of local government. This is really a serious issue, because it means not only a slow development, no development prospects at all, because neither credit can be taken or invested, but problems with the day-to-day performance of tasks, own tasks for which the local government is responsible. The consequences of this collapse are precisely the cessation of development, on which Poland was largely based. It's also stopping the investment. This retention of investment will have further consequences: a reduction in the revenue of the state budget from the tax on goods and services, because the greater the local investment, the greater the revenue of the state budget. But there is another problem, perhaps even worse, namely the absorption of EU funds. And you can see that with your naked eye. Many units withdraw because local governments do not have their own contribution. If they don't have credit capacity, they can't even borrow money to finance investments that could be co-financed by EU money. I'm asking for this bill to be adopted. This will improve the situation of local government units. This is not the solution to the whole problem, but I think that this support is especially necessary now, because everything I have said does not yet take into account the current problems connected with the pandemic, for example. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Any of you senators want to ask Senator Frankiewicz a question? Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u166	Mr. Senator, I have a question. Does the senator have any knowledge of this? The question is, for example, how many local governments today may be at risk of bankruptcy, but how much will they not be able to generate own contribution funds for projects that would be implemented through EU funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u167	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u168	It's precisely calculated by self-government unions. The Rural Community of the Republic of Poland is very often using such information that already before the troubles arose, about 800 municipalities had a budget surplus of less than PLN 0.5 million, i.e. almost zero in practice. As a result of these losses, these municipalities are below the water level, they are drowning. Such municipalities will certainly have problems with the absorption of European funds. And this net operating surplus... I've given the number of 357 units that are now negative for this surplus. It grows from year to year, so that the trend is negative, this problem will grow. But, of course, it is not that the problem only concerns rural communities. Larger interest losses, especially after these PIT operations, are observed in cities, especially in large cities, because they live mainly from personal income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u169	Thank you. Senator Janusz Bleacher asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question; wouldn't it be good to add up everything that should be returned to the local authorities? Because we in this bill only refer to the losses caused by these actions which were undertaken in 2019. A in 2020 Today, we can already say about this, there have been further laws concerning, for example, flat-rate tax or Estonian tax, which cause further losses in the income of local governments. All these assignments have been commissioned... In fact, every local governmentman will say that he has a shortage and has to pay from his own budget to the tasks commissioned. It would also be good to count so as to show that this is not just about these amounts. Well, today it's about the amounts, but we could show you what the problem is for all local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u171	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u172	Let me remind you that this law, called the Flat-rate Tax Act in short, the High Chamber has been considering relatively recently. We have tabled an amendment to this law, which was about to compensate for the loss estimated in the assessment of the impact of the regulation on PLN 1.4 billion. We already increased the participation of local governments in PIT, regardless of what we are talking about now. And this amendment was accepted here in the Senate. It should also be noted that this bill was prepared before the CIT and PIT Act, on this flat-rate tax, was sent to Parliament, and it was therefore difficult for us to take these changes into account. Of course, such monitoring of public finances is carried out on the local government side. We have these data and, of course, we could summarize them, but here we wanted to be extremely precise. We wanted to refer to these defects, which are easy to calculate, and compensate them with a lot of accuracy. We resisted, among other things. on the data of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u173	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u174	One more word of rehearsal. I agree with the fact that this bill concerns only those losses from 2019, and I do not want to change anything here. However, in order to complete the picture, it would be good to do something like this. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u175	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u176	Thank you very much. This is probably worth doing, with the report I mentioned in a number of places taking into account some, well, projections for 2020 already. It is already possible to assess what some financial indicators will look like at the end of this year. Yeah, but that's still ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u177	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A key role in the explanatory memorandum is played by the graph on page 3, which allows us to understand what was really going on or could be happening. We will come to that conclusion, and that is why the word "may" in the future. Well, there are 2 characteristic points where the execution of PIT has given in, I would call it, the collapse and the curve is no longer smooth, it is continuous but not smooth. Only that in 2008 there was a real breakdown, that is, it actually happened, then the execution of PIT really decreased. The curve on the chart, in short, goes down. And when it comes to 2019, first of all, we don't know what really happened, because as for the possible breakdown that you suggest on this chart, it's just a forecast. We don't have the data. It's just a forecast. Secondly, even on the basis of this forecast, the curve on the chart is still going up, only the revenue progression is smaller. So there's no defect. Maybe I'll say it like that. It is less revenue, from PIT income, on a percentage scale. Now, here's the question. Why then, when it was worse, because there was definitely a loss on the absolute scale in 2008... Why then the country that you ruled And you were 7 years old until 2015. You didn't try so hard to help the local government units and you didn't propose a law to change the coefficients in your mother's law? What prevented us from improving the situation in local government units? And now you care so much... So in short, when you could give money, you didn't give it, and now that you're in opposition, you're giving it away in all possible ways. [[Voice from the room: Something similar...]] Well, the second question is related to that. Well, in order for data to be reliable, reliable, they have to be complete. Why in 2019... I'm talking about forecasts, because not actual data... Here in a moment the Minister will present them to us, at the committee meeting he said that there will be no loss, but on the contrary, there will be an increase. But no bigger than he was in previous years, and that's the difference. Therefore, the question is: why did you not give in this data, as one of the reasons for the lower increase in PIT on an absolute scale in addition to the changes in the system that Mr Senator was talking about here extensively, the covid issues? I think we all know there's a COVID. We have masks on our face. Did they affect the way PIT is implemented or not? Well, as far as I'm concerned, they didn't come in. Where is the information on this graph that there are two reasons for a possible... possibly because, as I say, the data for 2020 and the next are forecasts. Where's a reason like COVID shown here? First question: why didn't you help in 2008? Second question: why don't you take all the data and causes into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u179	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u180	Let me just clarify: if you don't take into account... Is this addressed to me? [[Well, there's someone here who represents the applicants. It's not me.]] [[Voice from the room: You.]] We're... [[Question for applicants.]] We were in charge... Well, we weren't in charge. And I will say that similar conclusions, equally precise and strong, have been made since at least 2008. So that we're consistent in this. So much for that, we're thinking about it. This graph must be read together with others; then it will be seen what the problem is. Namely on the next page, in the next chart there are current expenses j.s.t. without benefits 500+, made in the years 2004 and 2019. In order to have reliable data, it is necessary to rely on full years and budget implementation reports. We compared data for the first, second, third quarter and they were very unstable. The use of the 3rd quarter is exceptionally impossible in relation to the operating surplus, because investment expenditure accumulates in the 4th quarter. If this is to be reliable, more meaningful, then it has to be done just as it was done. These costs, please pay attention It's a page. 4, this is shown on the graph They grow dramatically, much faster than their income. And that's where the results come from. And this effect is described among others. in this report, and briefly in the explanatory memorandum. I will only give one sentence: in the group of municipalities and cities on the rights of the county total net operating surplus in 2019 decreased by PLN 1.27 billion for 2018 i.e. 11.5%. So the effects are already visible, and clearly so. And to be said, I will add: these increased expenditures are not the result of the free decision of the local government, only these are the results of decisions that are made here, and in parliament, and in government. I think the data is complete and reliable because they're based It is written here on the information of the CSO, the Ministry of Finance. Yes, we collect data directly from the municipalities, but this concerns such current analyses as what I said about I, II, the third quarter of this year, to know what the impact of COVID is and what might be waiting for us in a moment. However, in such a discussion it is necessary to use the data from the sources I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u181	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u182	Right. On the question of what I received from 2008, I received an answer, and we tried. Not a word about COVID. Why was it not included as one of the causes of a possible decrease in PIT? But because you hooked me up, I'd be like this. He called the data and their credibility... In the original text, i.e. in print No 246 and in print No 246 S, i.e. in the one we are currently dealing with, there is a mention of this, except that of course it was improved after what I presented to you in the committee. Well, in the justification of the bill, I remind you And it's not just a text that's out there, it's official, so you can reach for it. The applicant State is indicated on what basis you were based on. In 2019 the Sejm adopted 2 amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act, PIT, which according to the draft opinion annexed to the draft... [[Mr. Senator, question, please.]] Well, that's the question. [[You've got three minutes, you've already crossed...]] According to the accompanying OSR projects, the impact assessment of regulations... In the original text there was the term "depleted." To those who do not know and who listen to us, I remind you that the OSR is a forecast for the future, showing how the bill will work. In the revised printing it is already causing losses. So you were based on 2 numbers, which is 6 billion PLN, which is going to decrease the share... [[Mr. Senator! This is a performance. We're in the middle of some questions.]] This will be even more detailed in the discussion, Mr. Marshal. [[Okay, that's when I ask you to step forward. Ask me a question.]] Why, during the drafting of this law, were you based on the forecast from other laws, on the OSR from other laws, rather than on actual data?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u183	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u184	We're based on available data. But I am... Well, I have enough confidence in the Ministry of Finance to believe that this OSR isn't airborne. There's something you have to lean on. The data are, as is stated, published by the Ministry of Finance. In fact, I did not see the years 2008 and 2009. The changes, with effects for 2009, took place in 2007, at the turn of 2007 and 2008. And that's what the crisis really did. The result was an absolute change, a decrease in revenue from this in local government units. Now we have a slightly different situation. I think the effects of COVID are still not taken into account here. But every budget has to be guided by a multi-annual financial plan. For self-government units this is the mentioned WPF, a long-term financial forecast. And if you plan to move forward for many years On the basis of the data that are provided to these local government units and there will be a change in this, the whole plan is being destroyed. Therefore, the breakdown of this forecast line That's the drama. If there is an increase in costs, then the effect is as I stated. So the translation that it's not bad, because the revenue has definitely increased without even taking into account inflation It is, to put it mildly, unconvincing. Because the problem is that there is no operating surplus, and I tried to explain it, which is the difference between current income and current expenditure. If this surplus is going to zero, it's going to start a lot of trouble and you can forget about development. And that's what this report is about, and that's the justification. You can argue over a word. That it was written that it caused, and it was supposed to cause, etc. But that doesn't change the sound of the whole document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u185	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Sebastian Skuza. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuza: Dear Mr Marshal, High Senate, the opinion of the Minister of Finance has already been presented at the joint committee meeting and no amendments have been tabled, so thank you, I do not want to speak.]] Thank you. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of questioning to the government representative present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've already announced that question. I would like a government representative to tell us not about the forecasts, but about the facts, i.e. what happens to PIT revenues in 2020. Let him just give us the numbers. Is there really a breakdown? Are they smaller or larger? Simply what factual basis should this amendment possibly be based on? And to say at the very end, whether the government, or actually the Ministry of Finance, I understand, supports it or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u187	Minister, I would invite you here because the questions are quite extensive and you will probably answer extensively.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u188	Dear Marshal, High Senate! As I presented at the joint committee meeting, we have such hard data for 3 quarters of this year. And a little bit of that was criticized because it would actually be a year's worth of data in four quarters... However, we do not yet have such data. We only compare 3 quarters 2020 to 3 quarters 2019. And according to these reports, the budgets of local government units closed collectively with a surplus of 18 billion 722 million with a planned annual deficit. Here I stress, the year-round deficit, not after 3 quarters For the third quarter of 2020, local government units generated total revenue of PLN 226 billion 611 million, which was 75.3% The plan. As compared to the third quarter of 2019, the total revenue generated by local government units for 3 quarters was 10.5% higher. Here I come, I think, to such essence, i.e. to the income of the local self-government units. The total amount of these revenues realised after 3 quarters amounted to PLN 103 billion 721 million, at 74% The plan. Compared to the third quarter of 2019, the realised own income in the third quarter of this year was 5.4% higher. So after three quarters, that own income was higher. Here I also draw attention to the issue that has been raised, namely the issue of operating surplus. According to data for the 3rd quarter of 2020, current revenues were higher than current expenditure by almost PLN 25 billion, exactly by PLN 24 billion, 923 million. Also at a safe level was the debt of local government units, which amounted to 81 billion 910 million and accounted for 27.2% Total planned revenue. As for the answer to the question about the financial situation, I will say yes. With regard to the issues relating to this draft law, as I said, there is no government position. I presented and sent only the opinion of the Minister of Finance. As I said at the meeting of the Joint Committees, we believe that this project could lead to further expansion within local self-government units, in terms of more and less prosperous municipalities, and there would also be an issue of additional measures related to part of the subsidies outside of education subsidies. That's why the Minister of Finance's opinion was negative. Nevertheless, I stress that this is the opinion of the Minister of Finance, not the position of the government, because there is no government position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u189	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 167 provides that local government units are to be provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. Unfortunately, it's a recipe so dead, I suspect that many senators are surprised that I look like him here at all. It's obvious that local governments have to deal with this. The same is true of the fact that states will not force themselves to comply with the Constitution and certainly not with this provision. And in local governments, scissors open up, especially quickly in the years 2018 and-2020, it is about the differences between revenue and the costs of carrying out tasks. State policy, sometimes socially correct, as in the case of wage increases or tax cuts, is unfortunately very often carried out at the expense of local governments, by reducing the revenue of local governments. Even if the education subsidy, which was at least sufficient for wages years ago, already covered only 84% in 2019 personal expenditure, and local governments from their own resources already add about PLN 26 billion to education. In my constituency 32 local governments pay more than PLN 100 million a year to education. These are small, poor municipalities from Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Among them are those whose income is barely enough for current expenses. During the turmoil that our government set around the budget around the veto of the EU budget, I asked the municipalities, cities, districts of our district, which investments are planned with EU funds, and for the first time I received a reply from some of them that they did not plan any investments because they did not have money for their own contribution. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated case or a case of one region, because in 2019 357 local governments had a negative net operating surplus, which was also referred to by Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. As the senator added, 800 more have this surplus of PLN 0.5 million, which is for patching the proverbial curb and holes on the way, not for investments. 3 years ago almost the whole of Poland watched the first Polish municipality of Ostrowice in Zachodniopomorskie bankrupt. Today experts say that in the next two years about 20% of Polish municipalities are in danger of bankruptcy. And it's not because, like Ostrowice, they're in debt in parabanks, just because the State doesn't comply with the article. 167 constitutions, imposing tasks on local governments without securing financial resources. High Senate, the financial illness of the municipalities is not as spectacular as a carambola on the highway, where at one point some lives are lost. This can be compared more to chronic heart failure, which leads to long-term disability. And these mutilated municipalities will last for some time, will function overnight, but will not develop and will not invest, and so far more than half of the public investment in Poland has been implemented by local governments. Try, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, government representatives, citizens, listening, watching the Senate broadcast, close your eyes for a moment and imagine your city, your village, your community, without the investments that have been made in recent years with EU funds. You're gonna see if you're gonna recognize this community and this town, or you're gonna want to live in it. But get used to this view, because in the next financial perspective, it may turn out that your local governments will not invest, will not renovate or arm waterworks, warm buildings, build sports halls, because they will not have any money for it. Self-governments, not mayors, uncles, presidents, because self-governments are citizens. And allow me to transcribe the famous 1963 John Kennedy saying. Ich bin ein Berliner, I will say equally dramatically today: we are all self-government, and I will add that we should all defend our local governments, defend ourselves against the loss of influence caused by state policy. Therefore, increasing the share of local governments in personal income tax by 4.6% for municipalities, by 1,24% for powiats and 0,5% in the case of voivodship local governments, it should not be regarded as an additional income for local governments, but as compensation for lost influence and the fulfilment of constitutional obligations. Self-government, High Senate, that's just the right thing to do. And it's gonna pay off for us, all of us. We're all self-government. For this reason I appeal today, ladies and gentlemen, to your self-government being, to your self-government identity, and I appeal: adopt a draft of this law that will save local governments, and with this will give the opportunity to develop our small homelands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u191	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will begin by referring to the words of Senator Czerwinski. I will say: Mr. Senator, no one has ever divided the Polish society like you. Now that you're using that word... And listening to you, I had the impression that I was listening to Gomelka or Cyrankiewicz. 'Cause it's the... I do not know who you are directing this to, because both Senator Frankiewicz and I are partyless senators as well as most local government officials in Poland. Everybody's got... [[Voice from the room: But you...]] Everyone has political views. Everyone has political views. We are co-creators of this bill and we have been working on it. And please do not divide the Polish society and Polish self-government into The governments, whether for the previous power or for the previous power, were apolitical in the vast majority. They defend the interests of their inhabitants, and do not smack their shoes into a platform to divide Poles into Now the issue of the merits of the case and the bill in question. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what we all know: the local government is the biggest success of Poland after 1989. The success of Poland... Poland owes its success to the local government, because the local government is hosts in the field, regardless of political views. Because everyone has some ideas, but most of all, it's the interests of the people. If you would look at the basic definition of self-government, if you read it from Wikipedia, all the same first sentence, it would be a sentence which is: the primary task of self-government is to meet the basic needs of the inhabitants. I repeat: meeting the basic needs of the inhabitants. Just what basic needs? Because these needs are growing. We wouldn't want to limit ourselves to an absolute minimum. We'd like our little homelands to grow. And for that to happen, you need money. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. I'm not gonna lecture any more on where this money's coming from in local governments. But local governments that get money somewhere or make money... Because local governments also make money, they make money, for example. They trade real estate to earn money and to satisfy the basic needs of their residents. They're doing everything in their power to make our little homelands grow. But this money is... They come from different sources. But local governments carry out a lot of tasks commissioned. Ordered, not your own. An example? The USC cases, which we will be discussing in a moment, on the next item on the agenda. USC cases are a task commissioned, but the money that comes from the voivodeship to accomplish this task is insufficient. So it's self-government, i.e. The governor, the mayor, the president, must take the money from the people who are waiting for the money. 'Cause they're waiting, for example. for the construction of a road or a pavement In order to cover the costs associated with the operation of tasks, but not the tasks of the municipality, but those tasks commissioned, for example by the voivode. Education. There's been so much talk of enlightenment here that I won't repeat myself again. But here's what I'm gonna say: since we're already split into "my" and "my" and "my"s, take it away from us. We, or self-governments, education. Just take this education from us. Don't raise that part of PIT any more, Minister. Don't raise your PIT, just take your education. After all, once, when this education went to local governments, the general idea behind this action was that money would follow this task, that is, taking over education. Well, I'm not saying... Don't take over all the education, we can handle the maintenance of the educational infrastructure, and you just pay the teachers. Self-government wants you to just pay the teachers. The government often raises, for example. It's for teachers. He says we've raised the teachers' wages. Cool! Only usually the money that hits with these raises is not enough. And the government... Well, the government raised the wages, but the government has to add money, which means it has to take somebody away. And now like this: very often we hear words They were raining in this room today, too. That local governments are growing revenue. Well, they are growing, but it is difficult to compare 2008 to which you referred, 2012 or 2014 to 2020, as it will be difficult to compare 2032 to 2020. There's a growing income, all right, but you're not talking about costs. They're growing income? Okay. But the cost is rising. Investment costs money, but to make it happen... Yeah, people make more money... I'm not gonna explain it, because these are the basics of economics, that's what primary school is supposed to learn, and I'm not gonna develop it. Yes, our revenues are growing, but we are increasing expenditures: investments, services, wages for employees associated with local government institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, as local governments, we can't keep chasing the bunny. We're still chasing the bunny, we're still chasing the train that's leaving us. And what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what We, residents of small cities and municipalities, large cities, self-government and residents And build zones, build roads, armor, infrastructure, attract investors... We're gonna get more revenue, but this train is gonna go away again, because costs often go up faster than that. The government often gives, yes, but often does not give its own. Propaganda is like getting something. Minister, you are lowering taxes, for which you are praised, because we would all like to pay taxes as low as possible, but you must remember the constitution that my previous speaker spoke of. You're lowering taxes? Then compensate the local government for the loss. You as a government are able to compensate some of these losses: raise the excise duty, introduce an additional tax. From what I've read, you guys are making big changes on taxes. You will compensate for these losses, and the local government has no way of compensating for their losses. The funds that are being transferred... I repeat as many times as a mantra that if funds are transferred to local governments Let's say that under the Self-Government Road Fund, it's... I repeat this question, and I will repeat it all the time: you transfer net money Or gross? If you're giving us $4 billion, please note that the 500+ program is $40 billion. Yes? I don't want to get into the subject anymore, whether it's consumption or investment. There are 40 billion on 500+ and 4 billion on local government investments. And out of these 4 billion, 2 billion will return in the form of VAT, indirect taxes, etc. It is calculated that up to 54% That amount is coming back. 40 billion goes to social programmes They're needed, I don't question it. 4 billion for investments, half of which come back in various taxes. Economic development, the development of local governments is evident here, because this money... praise and to this government, and to the previous governments, that they pass on such money. But you always have to remember. That at least half of that money is coming back. The operating surplus that was mentioned here, my previous speakers were talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the operating surplus cannot be analysed in a given year. I'll repeat what Zygmunt Frankiewicz said again. Please read to yourself what the multi-annual investment plan and the multi-annual financial plan, the WPF and the PPI are. Well, you can't... We are often in debt in local governments, and then we pay off these debts. We draw air and release it. This is a multi-annual plan and it can't be estimated on the basis of one year that there's a surplus, which means it's very good. No, it's more complicated and more complex, but I'm not gonna talk about it. As it has been said here, this drop in income is not only related to COVID or just... Many elements overlap, this year is extremely difficult and specific. It's not just a drop in income... Maybe it's different. Increase in costs faster than increase in revenue Maybe that's how we'd interpret it. And there's COVID. The situation will therefore be very difficult. We are entering a new perspective and there will be EU money, only that local governments will not have money for their own contribution. Finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that local governments are the salt of this land. I don't want to split us up, Mr. Senator. Unfortunately, this has happened in the distribution of money, for example recently, which I will talk about at a different point when you divided local governments into ours and yours. You can't do that. Local governments are ours, all Poles, and do not divide local governments for better and worse. Let the local governments live because the local government is the salt of this land. These are our little homelands, these are small communities, villages, big cities. And don't treat local governments as enemies or opponents. We are one, we live in one country and we fight for our common prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u193	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To the arguments ad personam, which were used by the predecessor, I will not refer to. It's a waste of time. I'll start with what we should be doing. Namely, if we are to take seriously the financial situation of local governments, then the analysis must begin not with those graphs which I am about to reach, but rather with the graph that I have here. It shows how the income structure of local government units has changed. Own revenue decreased This has taken place over the years 2004 and 2019 and grants have been increased, mainly grants, practically double, as well as subsidies. And that's the basic issue. And of course we need to talk. not clipping about one income, which is, let's assume, just about PIT, but if anything, about the sum of revenue, as well as about expenditure. But this print bill 246 S doesn't talk about it. There's no big deal about this case. Just increased percentage shares in the local government PIT of individual levels It's different, because it's over 4% for municipalities, and 0.2% for municipalities. , when it comes to voivodship But where do these increases come from, as they've been calculated, because that's what counts, and it doesn't come from the ceiling, because we don't know, because that's not in the justification. And what's in the explanatory statement? What are the designers doing to convince us to vote in favour of this bill? There's the first one, the basic graph. I'm showing it on purpose, because not everyone is going to reach out to the sources, to the prints. He shows the shares of j.s.t., i.e. local government units, in the influences of PIT. And what do we see? This graph is of course smooth, but there are 2 breakdown points. The first is 2008. In 2008 there is a real decrease in PIT shares and this reduction is done for 2 years. It's just that then, in 2008, just to be clear, I was a self-government officer then, well, I don't brag about it every day. There was no such lamentation, such a wall of crying. ♪ Then somehow the country ♪ I'm addressing the authors, the applicants of this project. You didn't act so dramatic. Maybe you should have protested that the constitution was being violated by now, Mr. Senator Strictly. There were no protests. [[Voice from the room: How do you know?]] Out of the dig. Ladies and gentlemen, this can be checked. Just go online, we have a tool like that. Or at least they were inefficient, because as you can see on this chart, there has been a flattening again. Well, maybe not a flattening, but a lysis, which means that this graph has become, practically speaking, linear, only at a different angle of slope. Well, it happened after a few years. And there's the second point that's supposed to be a breakdown. Except there's no data here. Here it is clearly indicated that this chart has been well prepared. That such a breakdown may, but it does not have to happen. The data after 2019 is still incomplete, we do not have complete data on execution. This is based on forecasts, and even these forecasts assume that there will be growth, only smaller. This is going to be an increase in PIT revenues, not, as was the case in 2008, an absolute decline. This increase will be smaller, but from the data quoted by the Minister, it appears that there will be no inheritance. I don't know what could happen in the fourth quarter, but, basically, all the numbers that have been given here are not going to be quoted again. They're positive. Assumed losses, those estimated at 26 billion, the losses in 4 quarters, have become At least according to data for 3 quarters, because that's the only data we have. A 18-billion-dollar surplus. The same is true in percentage terms. So all this printing and all our work is based on an assumption that in practice does not work, i.e. the false assumption that the revenue of local governments in terms of PIT 'Cause we're not talking about other income, that's clear. They're gonna decrease. Life says no, it increases. And you say, no, they're definitely going to decrease. In the last 2 weeks of the year, everything will suddenly collapse and these 3 quarters and 2 months with pennies will not affect the final result. Well, we'll see, we'll see. In six months, we will discuss this once we have the budget implementation data in 2020. And to make it even more clear... This isn't even about dishonesty, because I don't assume it, but it's about a certain inability to pay attention. The interpretation of this graph. Well, here it has to be clearly separated, show where the data are, and where the forecast is, where the facts are, and where the delusions are. This is not just about changes that occurred in the system in 2019. The main factor shaping not only economic development, but also the overall economic situation in us and in the world is pandemic. Well, it's been mentioned there, but of course, all possible negative effects have been dropped on systemic changes. It's a double... maybe not even a lie, but some kind of sloppy interpretation of data. Again, we're just talking about PIT. 'Cause this bill only applies to PIT And, of course, about income. What about expenses? Perhaps we should think about it. Of course, but here we need a discussion about the whole thing. Perhaps it's time for a new law on the income of local government units. Who should hold such a discussion? There's a body in Poland. The Senate shouldn't start it. After all, there is a Joint Committee on Government and Local Government. The government knows what it has, what the actual trends are and how much it will affect the cash register, and the local government knows what the needs are and what the local governments are. That's where this discussion should take place. If we're going to talk, let's do it in a reliable way, based on numbers and clearly dividing the facts, which is what was, what is verifiable, calculated, and forecasts, because these are completely different categories that are not allowed to... Well, you can, of course, anything you can, but you can't compare them fairly. I'm almost done. I urge such discussions about, I don't know, maybe a new model of financing j.s.t. But it's not here, not with this bill. Because, like I said, this bill has no basis. I don't know why we're going to increase by 0.19%. income from PIT in voivodship. And why not 0,25%? ? Of course, on such tasks as they are at the moment. To sum up, I will vote against this project for a simple reason: it will not change anything. Like I said, just like some other setup here, I explained it... Local governmentmen who usually take their seats there will be happy: oh, finally something will happen. The bill will not be considered at all where it should be considered. You'll pin a medal on yourselves that you're looking for self-government. Because when you could have done something, you didn't pin that medal on yourself. And the situation will remain unchanged, because in fact this bill will not change anything, even if it comes into force. But of course it won't come into force. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u195	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, please. Five minutes. [[Voice from the room: No, for the first time...]] Oh, no, this is the first time Senator Frankiewicz was the rapporteur, yes. That's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to take up relatively little time, because this is not some discussion that is going to convince anyone, it is repeated the same, often completely dishonest thesis, arguments, pseudoarguments. I'll try to stick to the point. The structure of revenue in the local government is very important. The more your own income, and really your own... PIT income isn't entirely your own, because the government doesn't have an impact on the amount of your income. Own revenue shall constitute the autonomy of the local government and its security. And that income actually fell. The subsidies have increased, but please be aware that these grant revenues have increased mainly as a result of the 500+ programme, and in the case of this programme the local government is a cashier. And it's just clouding the picture. As these shares were calculated to the second decimal place, I said and I'll say it again. Namely this loss, converted into individual, let's call it, the levels of local government, has been converted into shares. And that's what's left of it. added to existing shares. Simple and repeated... Well, I don't know how you can't understand it. I hate the word "lament," it's pejorative, and I don't agree with the fact that someone here is wailing. We take responsible care of the state. And part of this country is a local government, a very important part, here very often depreciated. In 2008 I was president of the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, the largest and probably strongest regional union in Poland. I was the chairman there for almost 20 years. Look on the Internet and see how this relationship reacted to similar situations at the time. Except for fairness, it must be added that those changes in personal income tax were made by the same political group as at present. So then the Law and Justice were reduced to be quite clear, reducing the income of local government units. And they weren't compensated, overtaken after 2 or 3 years. Those differences If you had looked at these curves more closely, you would have seen They continue until now, it is a permanent defect. It's still gonna be with that cavity. The job hasn't changed. The principle of adequacy bows down. What's changed? It's changed that I'm not the president of the city now, I'm the senator. I'm here to talk about it all out loud, to fight for it, and that's what I'm doing. And no one's gonna like me. I would like the committee of government and government to work well and to have a real dialogue there. But recent cases show that there is no chance for this dialogue. At the moment, these revenues of local government units are being reduced, which, however, Fortress It's in a very difficult situation. Moreover, as in the case of PITs and lump sums, local authorities lose on the one hand and on the other hand the state budget gains And yet it's called solidarity. I don't agree with that. This is not solidarity, because the government also takes the cost of saving the economy on its own. There's no more solidarity there. It's just a problem of self-government. This bill will not cause self-government to dissipate. This is completely wrong thinking because proportions are maintained. The loss was in PIT, the compensation is in PIT And it's proportional, precisely calculated, as I said, to the second decimal place. From objective data, which are based on hard information from the CSO and the Ministry of Finance, it appears that the biggest drop in revenue occurred in the largest cities. Well, that's the nature of the tax. And there should also be the strongest compensation. So that it's all proportional. I am very pleased that this data from the Ministry of Finance is optimistic. I wish I could keep it that way. I'd like to say that we're right that we've come out of this with a defensive hand. I'd like to see that next year, when we discuss it, it turns out there wasn't such a big collapse. But the loss remains because the loss of income will always be after such operations that have taken place. It's just that the source of income is less efficient. Now I'm going to refer to a very precise, detailed thing: that's, personal income is growing. Indeed, but I do not know whether the State has pointed out such a nuance in the last 2 statutory regulations, which referred to the revenue of local government units, that these revenues have been changed to tax revenue. I don't know if you've noticed. Why did this happen? Because now, in some sources of income, these influences grow quite quickly and partly complement the shortcomings that arise from PIT. What's the income? I'll give you one example. This is revenue taken from garbage charges. Waste collection costs increase avalanchely, rapidly and this increases the self-government's own income. And since spending is often increasing even faster and this principle of balance sheet maintenance is not preserved, no one is looking at it anymore. But the revenue has definitely increased. And in the case of junk, it significantly affects the level of income and their growth. So that from the position of the Ministry of Finance it may seem that everything is in complete order, because these revenues are growing. And yet someone had a reflection on this, because in those laws that we have recently adopted, it was limited to tax revenues, so as not to rule out a large proportion of local governments because they did not lose that income as it might seem. This is very precise, specialized matter, and you should really talk about it calmly in a group of professionals, not stick around here. or a bat, because this conversation doesn't make any sense. This is signaling the problem, this is not the solution to the problem. Of course, the adoption of this law will change a lot in local governments, and they all count on it, but it will not solve the general problem of local finances. A new law on the income of local government units is needed. I would very much like to do this kind of work. I say it more as the president of the Polish City Association than the senator. The whole self-government side is very eager to do that. And I must also inform you that it is with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance that we are talking about the local government side of the development subsidy. This is an idea that, I think, initially... well, maybe he didn't accept... He was interested in Minister Kościński and Minister Skuz was appointed to contact the local government to try to convert it to legal solutions. This is because the VAT that the local government pays is only at the expense of it, and it is not entirely justified. And it would be good for him to go back to self-government. Not that he would return exactly to the one who generated it, but to strengthen the investment opportunities of local governments, to support weaker local governments, and at the same time to motivate those who pay the most of this tax. So that we are pre-arranged for such a conversation, and I value it, because the conversation here is often political and superficial, and that does not develop us. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, as I understand it, in the five-minute speech... [[Three minutes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u198	Not even a three-minute one, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I will refer to the previous statements and say this: indeed, if we could sit down together and reject all the political burdens involved, it would be great. Then suggest a meeting like this. In the Joint Government and Local Government Commission meetings are held almost every month, but so far there is little evidence of them. So try as a ruling option to make this conversation really constructive enough to bring some concrete results. Now here's what I'm going to say: going back to 2008, or going back to previous years... You know, I don't know if that makes sense today because... there's not even time to prove it. I'll tell you from my experience. You've been trying to offend me by saying you're a self-government officer, but... congratulations. I'm a self-government officer, I'll die a self-government officer, I'm a proud self-government officer, and I'll always emphasize that, so excuse me. To my experience, to my knowledge, which I have gained in the local government, I will often return and recall it. I'm a proud self-governmentman. Sir, we've been seeing each other under different circumstances all these years. I didn't want to get into this, but I'll tell you, we've met for President Komorowski at the Presidential Palace. I don't remember how many times. Everything was not achieved, but attempts to regulate local affairs were very far-reaching. Then Komorowski lost the election. But those meetings were. There have been discussions, debates and search for solutions. So it's not like we didn't do anything. And immediately noted that I always performed as a self-government person without a party and independent. And no matter what the government says, I think that every local governmentman or majority of local government officials is confirm No matter what government was in power, we have always defended the interests of the local government. For those governments, too. Of course, it may not be possible to regulate this now with one move, especially since after the statements of the right party in the Senate it seems unlikely that you would later support this law in the Seym. To the point, I hope that thanks to you, we'll be back. I'll tell you why. Because it's not a question of the graph you showed. We will not argue whether this is one percentage point more or one percentage point less. So far, in all years when I had a relationship with the local government, and I have had it since 2002, no matter who ruled, it has been added to the local authorities and it has been compensated to be in line with the constitution that was mentioned here, e.g. an increase of 0,1%. So we've been bumped into jobs, the costs in local governments have increased, and to pretend to be the previous governments have been doing that, I clearly state that. This is in line with the Constitution, and measures have been raised from e.g. 39.1% to 39.2%. It was a game of appearances. But you are righteous and righteous. Okay, let's stop playing this game of appearances, and let's sit down at the tables and stop cheating on each other. Is there an increase in spending? Make up for the tasks you're giving us. My predecessor, Mr. Senator, was talking about VAT. Let's talk about VAT. After all, we in local governments work this VAT to a very large extent. Because I'm gonna say it again, and I'm gonna defend it like independence, that local governments are building roads, arming land, pulling down factories, and this tax increase is largely the share of local governments. And very quickly... I'll rephrase what Senator Frankiewicz said. The fact that we have increased funding is mainly influenced by 500+. It's 500+ incredibly disruptive. So please subtract 500+ and then see what happens to our grants and the revenue of the municipalities. And at the end of the classics. We were talking about garbage here, and somewhere in between the words, there was a slogan that we wouldn't let the prices for trash go up, and somewhere it was said that it might be that the government would impose prices for trash, and the government that would bear the costs would have to finance the difference with its own money. God's protection against such a solution, before interfering in the powers of the local government, regulating the price and ensuring that the local government covers the costs if they are to be higher. Just to the end. In the previous debate, the slogan was that rural communities are against this law. Something like that happened. That's not true. I spoke to the representatives of the Rural Union who denied it. On the contrary, they support this project. One could be so impressed that in rural communities this income from PIT is not actually generated, it is generated in urban centres, where there is industry, where there are factories, and basically rural communities do not care about it. That's not true. The rural community also cares about this bill, and they want it to be pushed through. In the end, remember that a new financial perspective is approaching when it comes to EU funds. Self-governments must have money to make their own contributions. And thwarted success, no longer knowing how it happened that this money would flow to Poland... It must be taken into account that local governments, in order to implement these great EU projects, which I hope will be ours, must have money for their own contribution. It has to be taken into account. It has to be remembered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened carefully to this debate. Apart from the political threads, there is also a very serious substantive aspect. What I am about to say, I am going to say as a parliamentarian, who was a Member and is a senator, but also as a self-government officer, former President of the Warsaw Capital City Council, Warsaw Councilman, and now a Senator of the Ciechanov Region, so areas of municipalities rather small, weak, rural, which face various difficulties. I would like to say, first of all, that the situation of large, wealthy local governments, which have companies, have special income from their assets, much greater opportunities for action, have many citizens who earn well, so this PIT tax algorithm is high, and they have a number of other possibilities of action, and above all they are so large that, even if obtaining credit is much easier for them, they also have bigger tasks, and another is the situation of the average rural community, which has a budget of 6 million, sometimes 10 million, 15 million PLN per year. There's really a lot of municipalities like this. In such a municipality, every task imposed on it, starting with solving the problem of homelessness of dogs After all, not every municipality has its own hostel, so it has to pay an appropriate day's pay for a dog to the neighbouring municipality, a stronger one that has a hostel. The waste management, which we discussed a lot today, and not every municipality is able to organise the whole waste collection and disposal process on its own, was also a broad discussion, and other tasks... I remember that during our debate on this project, during the meeting of the Legislative Commission with the local government committee, there was also talk about educational tasks which lie with local government units. We know that primary schools are run by local government, above-basic district, but there is also education, which is the responsibility of the regional government, not much, but such education is also. And what I'm talking about with the mayors, the mayors, the presidents, is the topic of the largest number of remarks related to the commune's finances, it's a question of education subsidies. And here there are constant disputes, whether this algorithm, on the basis of which it is calculated and paid, is right or wrong. And these are usually disputes. No matter who's in charge. between government administration and local authorities, which believe that this subsidy does not cover costs. Especially in small municipalities in the rural environment, where a large network of schools is maintained, and the student, so brutally speaking, in the rural community costs the municipality much more than in the big city, where classes count 30 students. There are 12 pupils in the village, and the teacher must be maintained, paid and provided with education. Therefore, the issue of financing local governments, so that they can carry out the tasks imposed, is a key issue for the quality of life of all Poles, because everyone in a community lives. It's not like we're talking about some structure that's abstract. She's very specific. It is often said in the local elections that it is the power that is closest to the people, knows their needs and tries to meet the expectations and aspirations of these people. High Izbo, it seems to me, in the case of this project this discussion has shown well, putting aside political issues, that we still hear that there is a discussion in the forum between government and local government, how to solve these issues, and we are looking for optimal solutions. And here the opposition will claim that there is no will or... Here, in turn, other arguments will fall, but ultimately the situation is what it is. Therefore, it seems to me that it would be advisable to provide a structural solution to finance education and education in Poland. What do I mean? Perhaps there was a lot of talk about this during the various elections. The return to the model in which salaries for teachers, i.e. what is the highest cost as part of the educational task or one... It depends on the situation of the municipality, because maybe not in every municipality it is. The point is that it's on the government's pot so that it's financed by the state budget. And then, if the teachers think they're not making enough money, there's some collective, non-group disputes, then please, let them talk to the government. And a self-government unit as a leading authority would be responsible for infrastructure: building, equipment and that sort of thing. Local authorities have aspirations to make these schools the best possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in many rural communities, where schools were wonderfully decorated, thanks to the support of parents, thanks to various funds received by the wojites. These schools were in much better shape than in big cities. I am talking about the state of such, I would say, the infrastructure, the quality of the infrastructure and renovations that were carried out, as well as the housing opportunities that were in these schools. It also depends on the invention of the governor, on the aspirations of the inhabitants, on the activities of the residents who support the local authorities in various forms. But a lot of good things are happening in Poland, really, believe me. When you drive around these smaller towns, you can see it perfectly. But he still doesn't want it to end. Perhaps on the occasion of this discussion, which is currently taking place here in the Senate, it is worth over the divisions... Because as for the fact that this is the right direction for change, a significant part of the PiS parliamentarians agree, because I talked to them. I rode myself during the election campaign and talked to ministers about it, with people from my constituency who supported this idea. I think that the opposition would also be in line with this. Perhaps it would be useful to develop such a formula and think about the future of education and education in Poland in such a way as to teach these flows of money from public funds that are directed towards educational activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A few sentences of personal reflection, by the way, about self-government. I think I might consider myself a self-government officer because, as I said before, for more than 21 years I was a doorman and an old man, 21 years and 2 months in total, less than a month. I've been elected a governor three times, four times, twice as a councilman, and four times as a district councilman. So many of these choices. I survived. I was wondering. Sometimes we hear one or the other saying that he was a local governmentman. Or one that was a city councilman or a county councilman for a year, that's a self-government officer. In my personal classification the self-government is the one who was the head of the commune, the district, answered, decided, and sometimes did not sleep at night, because it was not paid, it was not done, and it has to be done somehow, for this money you have to look for, here you have to go, for this you have to fight for. One who lives it always thinks about it. The councilman will vote for it and go home, sometimes he doesn't even know what he's voting for, but his CV says he's a big local governmentman. Well, there's a very, very big difference. It's kind of like home to first to first... How much a man as a father, having eight children, had to go on the lookout, building a house, how to pay, where to get that money, where to borrow, when to pay back... Same with the head of the commune, district or voivodship. Once again, the councilman voted once a month and went home, but on his résumé... If I'm hearing this, I'm hearing it in my ears. And he says what kind of self-government he is, how wonderfully he understands it all. Ladies and gentlemen, I have survived all parties in the local government. I had a problem... No, the problem, no problem, cooperation, non-cooperation, and with PSL, and with PO, and with SLD, with the League of Polish Families, and with PiS. I've done everything. And maybe so. Let me summarize this: the nature of the party and government administration is the nature of the crocodile. And that's something you have to deal with. He wants to own it, reduce it, give it to him, and not give it to him... It's natural. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, sir, and cross-party. More and more tasks, and less money; how to pluck them, it is the local government. How many decisions did I have to give money like this and that, and it came to 10%? or 15% less. Only then did I know how much I actually got. When it comes to self-government, I bow to my forehead... I know what kind of communes were set up in 1990. There was no district, I created district from scratch. That's all I know. I've been through all this. And as I listen to one or the other sometimes, as he explains to me, what is self-government, what it is, I just look at it and answer: I don't have that kind of experience, I don't know about it, but I respect it, thank you for your comments. Each self-government officer, every governor, the governor would like it to be stable, predictable. Of course, a lot of things can suddenly pop up... It's like home, and it's gonna break down the washing machine, and it's a fridge, and you have to spend the money. It's the same in the commune. The point is to make it reasonably predictable, stable, so that you can predict what will happen for at least a few years ahead. This is certainly what every self-governmentman dreams about, the head of the commune, district or voivodship. I will mention once again the nature of the crocodile of those who are above us. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember how we assumed the county from scratch. We met as councillors, 25 of us were then, and discussed who would be an old woman. They picked me. I later made sure that the board member was from this area, and from this area, and from this area... We agreed on that. There was no phone call from the party, there was nothing, it was unthinkable. And today I'm going to say something that might sound brutal: is the regional government still a local government? Isn't this a party-state agenda? Well, it's a matter of thought. And finally, in a spirit of solidarity Not even considering this draft law, this proposal, which is presented here As a self-government officer, as I say, in the spirit of local solidarity, I will say: I will vote in favour of this project, no matter what happens next with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszard Śvilski, Senator Alexander Szwed and Senator Janusz Błucherz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Is the representative... Oh, no, there's no conclusion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 227, and the committee's report In print No 227 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u204	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! This project, which I will be talking about in a moment, is the result of a petition which was submitted to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and was submitted by the Supreme Bar Council. The proposed regulation provides that, if the temporary arrester has a lawyer established, the authority at whose disposal he is temporarily arrested shall, as soon as he has been informed of the establishment of the defender, send immediately, from his office, an order to the director of the detention of the temporary arrester, to the Director of the detention facility where he is temporarily arrested, to the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union for approval of the repeated sighting of that defender with the temporary arrest. Upon notification to that authority at whose disposal it is temporarily arrested, the latter shall, also of its own motion, issue an order to revoke the order for approval of the repeated sighting of that defender with the temporary arrest and shall forward it immediately to the director of the detention facility in which he is temporarily arrested. The difference between the current legal situation and the proposed one is that this newly designed legal state, firstly, will fully allow the constitutional and conventional right of the person temporarily arrested to contact the defender; secondly, it will simplify the technical and organisational activities of the procedural body and here we are talking about the prosecutor's office, relieving this judicial authority from carrying out additional organisational activities; thirdly, it will improve the implementation of the contact temporarily arrested with its defender. What are the anticipated effects of the project? The proposed change has a positive social and legal impact because it will remove the existing restrictions on the right temporarily arrested to contact the defender in the absence of other persons, while ensuring that the right of defence is fully exercised in this respect. It represents the exercise of the right of a person temporarily arrested to be treated in a humanitarian manner. It does not have economic consequences and contributes to the financial savings of the State Treasury, as it removes the need to take only technical actions that absorb the time of the procedural authorities and their employees, and also generate of course costs in the form of office supplies and the cost of delivery of official correspondence. The draft law does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units. The draft law does not require the adoption of implementing acts and is not covered by European Union law. As regards our obligations arising from foreign agreements or our participation, Poland's participation in international organisations, the rights and freedoms of the person temporarily arrested are protected under international law, in particular the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, art. 48, paragraph. 2) the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article. 6, paragraph 6. 3 lit. b and c; International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article. 14th paragraph. 3 lit. b and d , and UN National Assembly Resolution 43/173 of 9 December 1998, i.e. the eighteenth rule of a set of rules aimed at protecting all persons subject to any form of arrest or imprisonment. We have received numerous opinions for this project. I will start with the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which is negative, where we can read: "The need to issue a multiple order for consent to a vision temporarily arrested with a defender by an authority at whose disposal he is temporarily arrested cannot be seen as an excessive restriction of the right of temporary arrest for defence. The issue of the consent order does not interfere with the essence of this right and in fact constitutes an expression of the balance between the right to defend temporarily arrested and the legitimate interests or the good of the judiciary, with the aim of ensuring a smooth, efficient and undistorted conduct of the proceedings. Only the authority at whose disposal he is temporarily arrested shall have full knowledge of the established or designated defender... Ladies and gentlemen, this opinion of the Minister of Justice is in absolute contradiction with the other opinions that I will quote in a moment, but also contradicts the view that the legitimate interest, the good of the justice system, is aimed at ensuring a smooth, efficient and undistorted... There is no doubt that if the prosecutor, being obliged to grant permission to see, instead of giving them once, must spend them 3, 4 or 5 times, well, the logic of such a situation is in absolute contradiction with this view, which is found in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. However, in fact, the second raised circumstance inspired me to make an amendment. In the opinion of the Ministry And thank you for your constructive criticism. - by making detailed comments on the wording of Article. 215 §3 of the draft law. The implementing penal code should be pointed out that this provision did not provide for an obligation for the authority to issue an order for authorisation of the protection of the defence against the temporary arrest at whose disposal it is temporarily arrested. The draft does not refer to the obligation to send such an order to the Director of Investigation, nor does the proposed provision take into account the situation where the temporary arrester has an appointed defender of his own motion. This is true, but fortunately this can be improved in one sentence, which we will do in a moment. We also have here the opinion of the Polish Judges' Association, which contains a positive assessment of this change. As I read, the very request for an amendment in the opinion should be assessed positively, as the present state may in practice violate the principle of the right of defence, expressed above all in the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution, in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 lit. b and c of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 lit. b and d The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as the 18th rule of the resolution of the General Assembly. And further: even if you ignore all these comments, it must be stated that the solution considered will certainly limit unnecessary formalism, which in practice, as the arguments put forward above, has been the subject of many years of legitimate criticism, in particular given that the prosecutor cannot refuse to allow a visit with the temporary arrested and gives that consent every time. To conclude, the proposed solution should be assessed positively. Interestingly, the Chairman of the National Judicial Council did not have any comments on this project. Now the Attorneys' Association of Lex Super Omnia, i.e. people who in practice use this article and which today's regulation imposes meaningless work on them. It states: with reference to the letter of 13 October 2020. The Association of Attorneys Lex Super Omnia, with interest, took the initiative of the Senate of the Republic relating to the revision of the Penal Code of Enforcement, aimed at simplifying the implementation of technical activities related to enabling the defendant or the suspect to communicate with his defender on a temporary basis. And then, it doesn't raise any doubts, and it sounded unambiguously in the justification of the proposed change, that this right belongs to one of the basic guarantees. It is written by prosecutors, the rights of defence or the principles of humanitarianism. It is therefore necessary to take all possible initiatives, including legislative ones, in order to ensure these guarantees. And we read further that we can refer to a practice that has a very diverse dimension. And this is how prosecutors give these permissions every time: starting with attitudes that exemplify the proper understanding of the substance of the right of defence to conduct that hinders or even torpedoes, we are talking about prosecutors again. The defendant's right of proper contact with his defender. As a representative of the prosecutors' community, the Association of Attorneys Lex Super Omnia, which has a huge impact on ensuring proper contacts between the defender and the suspect at the stage of the investigation, notes the emerging irregularities related to the technical aspect of the issuing of orders, i.e. Permission to see. For this reason, he takes the initiative of the Senate of the Republic of Poland with interest and kindness, but with some comments. I'm in those comments. They're pretty complicated. I won't come in. I would just like to point out that there are some comments here on our project. After talking to the Legislative Bureau, we concluded that the Ministry could handle this on the basis of appropriate regulations or regulations. Well, it's about some technical aspects of granting such a single consent. The Ombudsman welcomes this initiative: "It is important to agree that the current scope of the proposed revision of the regulation concerning the procedure for the granting of visits temporarily arrested with a defender should be changed in the direction indicated in the proposal. The proposed solution is in accordance with Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 the Constitution, which states that everyone against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted has the right to defend in all stages of the proceedings. He may, in particular, choose a defender or, under the rules laid down in the Act, use a defender of his own motion. Similarly, the Ombudsman draws attention to the principles arising from our international agreements and participation in various international organisations, which are being violated by the existing regulations today. That's why we want to change it. The High Izbo, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee at their joint meeting on 24 November 2020 considered the draft presented by us at first reading and tabled an amendment that was accepted. The opinion of the committee on the project is positive. And that's actually all I could say in my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report up to a maximum of one minute. I'm very keen on this. Questions to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Alexander Pociej to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a minute-long question to the Senator of the rapporteur? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u206	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Maybe I'd like an explanation, because not everyone knows the intricacies of the criminal code... [[... executive.]] ...executive. It is about what will change in the light of this proposed law in terms of the rights of defence, to the defender, e.g. in the case of a detained person who is temporarily isolated. What's the situation just gonna look like? Well, there are different opinions about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u208	I'll answer the simplest language, Senator. Today's the day. As far as the temporary arrest is concerned, of course he must give power of attorney, most often... Very often it's a family member. With this power of attorney from this arrest, the family goes to the lawyer, gives him a document, gives him a power of attorney, e.g. At the D.A.'s office, and he's applying for a visit. Sometimes it is a prosecutor, as the prosecutors themselves wrote, who is not burdened with too many responsibilities, also does not behave indecently, so he gives this permission to see. This agreement can be nuanced, i.e. A lawyer can get permission to see him alone or, in special cases, when there's a great deal of concern about being a mattress, the prosecutor can determine... He himself can participate in the sighting, passively, simply looking for any communication that could harm the whole case, or it may be, and most often so, a police officer who is taking part in such a conversation. And this principle is not restricted in any way here, because absolutely, even in the case of multiple consents, as such consents are, it can be reserved, according to our proposal, the prosecutor may reserve that there should be such an officer during his visit to the lawyer. Nothing changes around here. The only thing that changes is that, in response to this first request, the prosecutor sends such general consent, and then the lawyer only deals with the prison authorities. He says, "I'm gonna be that day, etc., and they're technically doing it," they say when they have a saloon that you can come about, etc., etc., etc. Meanwhile, today... And it's designed. And today every time... And it's very often that you have to see a man like that. Four times a month. And now imagine that if the prosecutor who runs the 60s, 100 cases, a large part of which are arrest cases, he must answer three times in a month to every lawyer who is arrested, it could be up to 200 consents to a visit. This is duplication. And he cannot refuse this consent because this is how our law is constructed. It's just a simplification of this formula of the meeting and a photo of the prosecutors and lawyers of this paperwork. Because then there's the problem that there's a new circumstance, the lawyer wants to get in touch with his client quickly. And instead of going to the warden's prison, knock on the door and say, "Please give me a visit because I have permission... This agreement may also be that the warden needs to call the prosecutor and say: seeing will be this day, so send someone, because these meetings are in such a regime that they're not alone, they're with someone. And now a few days goes by the lawyer's letter, and the prosecutor gets it, depending on what I said in the beginning, what kind of man he is or how busy he is, how he responds takes him a few days, sometimes two weeks or a week, she goes back to the lawyer, and then he can go with it... It's a completely pointless job. Moreover, even in this regime that is today, there have been periods of thawing, so to speak, prosecutorial, when repeated... So it even worked under this existing law, only from time to time there is a change of guidelines, a change of policy and every time it needs to be replicated. I think it's very important here to evaluate this prosecutor's organization, Lex Super Omnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you a further question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u210	Mr. Senator, what happens when circumstances like this happen? Suppose the person arrested or arrested is a person who is bound by a civil law agreement or any other agreement with another person. It is necessary to terminate the agreement, for example, in connection with its detention, with the allegations which have been made to it. the lease of the apartment or any kind of contract. As far as I can remember, so far it has been so, and in such a situation, the person who wants to terminate the contract must ask the prosecutor for permission to deliver the contract to the penitentiary, which is to arrest him, and only then may the warden of this facility hand it over to the arrester. Is something different here? This is an important problem, it may seem trivial, but it has its very serious legal consequences. the inability to terminate the agreement with the person who is arrested or arrested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u211	Thank you very much, senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u212	That's a very accurate question. I reserve immediately, Mr. Senator, that I have not practiced for 10 years and have not gone to court as well as to clients. In fact, that's another reason why this man who was ripped out of his normal life is in custody... sometimes he's right there, very often right. Well, we can limit his freedom or his attempt to escape, his attempt to influence his actions, but all the rest of his rights in connection with such agreements should be respected. So, again, if there's a need to do something quickly, and that's what happens in the life of the arrested, then... well, so that he can do it, this whole procedure is being implemented every time. And that, of course, causes the vision to shift. In this respect, this would also improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: Yes, please.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to a number of important issues when it comes to this project. Namely, the position on this project was also presented by the National Public Prosecutor's Office, and this position is not too extensive, but it does produce a negative opinion on this project. The National Prosecutor's Office has indicated that the laws in force do not restrict the right of the person temporarily arrested to contact the defender. I, of course, maintain this position, which the Minister of Justice presented in his opinion, will probably present the position of the government during the proposed submission. At this point, of course, I would like to maintain the position of Minister of Justice in its entirety. It points out that the current rules on the possibility of communicating with the accused or the suspect temporarily arrested with his defender fully respect constitutional and conventional standards in this area and do not restrict or impede the exercise of the right of defence in any way. This is a justification for a one-off arrangement for allowing a temporary arrest with a lawyer, however important it may be when it comes to the issues of workers who actually have to issue this order every time, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that every issue of such an order allows for And it's basically the only thing that makes it possible. . verify that the contract concluded with the defender is still in force. I would like to draw attention to the danger of one-off permission to see, which may lead to the fact that this legal relationship between the defendant or the prisoner and his defender may not be up to date. At this point in time, the authority which gives such consent once cannot be verified. This could lead to the danger of a person being temporarily arrested trying to communicate with a defender or communicating with a defender who is no longer in fact representing his or her interests in this proceeding. The proposed solution can lead to such a situation also when the relationship of the defender ceases, but information about it will not reach the director of the penitentiary unit yet, and thus he will not have the knowledge that the previously issued consent order is no longer valid. Nor can it be ruled out that an order for consent is not to be delivered to the director of the detective's arrest prior to the presence of a defender in this unit. I would also point out that, contrary to the opinion of the draftsman, the proposed legislative proposal does not in any way exempt the procedural authority from carrying out organisational activities. On the contrary, it will be on this authority that permanent control is required in this regard in order to take appropriate action, and in particular to establish, as I have already mentioned, whether the defence relationship is still valid. The entire burden of action in this area will be transferred to the judicial authority and the penitentiary, while exempting the defender from demonstrating any initiative in this respect. Therefore, if such a situation were to occur, that the relationship of the defender would actually expire, it would be possible to seek responsibility, of course, on the part of that procedural authority, which is authorised to issue such an order if it were to be seen under an order which already concerns an outdated relationship. Therefore, No longer extending and not repeating the argument contained in the letter of the Minister of Justice I, High Izbo, am upholding this position and expressing a negative opinion as regards the proposed legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u215	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[I would.]] Oh, here you go. [[I'm sorry, because...]] But I'm not forcing you, Senator, to ask questions. [[I know.]] I'm just asking if they're willing to do this one minute. - What do you want me to say? - I don't know what
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u216	Yes, sir. I would ask the Minister about this matter I asked Senator Pociej. But it's not about the first question anymore, it's about the second question. Suppose the detained person was to enter into a civil-law contract that was important from his point of view, I don't know, credit, anything, etc. What's the procedure? Since she doesn't have the ability to go to a bank or another institution, to meet a partner of this agreement she wants to make. What does this procedure look like in the light of the current rules? I mean, how can he exercise his right to make such an agreement? Does he have to ask this authority for the attorney general's permission to proceed through the prison chief? What's the situation? I'm asking because, paradoxically, it's a big problem that we're just dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u217	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm happy to answer that question because I'm a civilian. The issue does not concern this project and the elements we are talking about here, but in this situation we have consequences of the temporary arrest. The only way to act in law or to take legal action at this point is to establish a representative. It therefore appears that, in this situation, it should be possible for the person temporarily arrested to appoint a representative, whether professional or even non-professional. Everything depends on what a civil-law legal act it will be. And this person acting on behalf of his or her principal will be able to take the same legal action, for example, concerning: The termination of the lease, as the senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, too, for having the Minister's attention. On the other hand, it is obvious that this question was not related to this item on the agenda. Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. I want to inform you that I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Very briefly. The Minister and I have worked together several times, and we have been able to work out some good solutions, to the glory of our homeland. But the arguments put forward today by the Minister, well, are not of the highest quality. The Minister pointed out that I did not mention the opinion of the prosecutor... deputy, first deputy attorney general, national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. Well, Minister, I didn't do it because I didn't want to make your prosecutor look bad. But you're forcing me to, so I'm gonna read that opinion here. In response to the letter dated And so on and so on. I kindly inform you that the provisions in force do not restrict or impede the right of a person temporarily arrested to contact a defender or a constitutional right of a person temporarily arrested in this respect. These rights are properly guaranteed by existing regulations. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Is there an argument here? There's not even half an argument here. All the arguments that fall in writings from other institutions are simply: no. So you guys think the chair's tough, and we think it's soft. There was an argument: what would it be if the defender had the power of attorney spoken and started going to jail? With all due respect to my fellow defense attorneys... They sometimes do pro bono, but I assure you, Minister, it's like you're afraid that someone who's gonna snow the streets the next day after his contract's out, grab a shovel and clean these streets. Well, really... We're talking about my fellow lawyers. We are the people who do the work and are paid for it. If someone gives a power of attorney, it's a chance that the other one will continue, despite the lack of this power of attorney. In addition, when he was exposed to disciplinary responsibility, he ran to prison and continued to handle matters, it was really zero. Believe me. Let me remind you that the defense attorney has to do his duty for two weeks, if I remember correctly. Such a period is indeed recorded and therefore is such a risk. But it's in the code! And the last thing we talked about here. After all, prosecutors issue multiple approvals on the basis of existing legislation, only the problem is that they are not obliged to do so. So there are situations. and such situations were many, many When multiple consents are issued. Therefore, arguing that the introduction of multiple consent is some incredible revolution, well, it's not about the truth. The problem is simply that manipulating the response period repeatedly causes real access to the defender to be administratively delayed or blocked. And only in this respect will this change slightly change the approach of not all prosecutors, but of those unreliable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u221	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor has made a speech to the minutes and Senator Alexander Pociej has submitted a legislative proposal. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: Mr Marshal, unfortunately, I have not received these legislative proposals, so I find it difficult to respond to them.]] I understand, Minister, and I don't have... [[Can I explain this...]] Please, Mr Senator, only that the place and the appropriate time to make an argument about the legislative proposal was your speech. [[I understand. I just...]] But please, you still have five more minutes, Senator, according to the rules, so you can present... Oh, no, I've already closed the debate. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but no. [[Good. Then I'll just pass it on...]] But at the committee meeting, I understand the Minister will be familiar with it. [[Yes.]] I'm sorry, but I had to read that question because it's what the rules require of me. I don't think I have to tell the lawyers that I have to follow the rules. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Does Senator Aleksander Pociej make a request to set a deadline for the preparation of an additional report? [[Yes, sir, yes, yes.]] If I don't hear any objection, the Senate will accept Senator Pociej's motion. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of. Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 228, and the committee's report In print No 228 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As rapporteur for the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, and as representative of the applicants, I would like to present both the report and the substance of this proposal. The joint committees dealt with the amendment of the Law of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, contained in Senate Printing No 228, at its meeting on 24 November this year. During this meeting, the joint committees adopted draft legislative amendments and also adopted a proposal for its adoption without amendments. The whole project is included in Senate print No 228 S. The proposal to adopt a draft law without amendments was adopted by the joint committees The vote of 12 senators was in favour, 5 against and 2 abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the essence of this project? The essence of this project is the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the defendant as a witness in accordance with the provisions of the criminal and civil procedure. The reimbursement of these costs is absolutely not in line with current socio-economic realities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is enough to say that the person called to the court or the prosecution as a witness must fulfil the legal obligation imposed on that person by the State. He must devote his time, and this often involves traveling to remote centres where the courts or prosecutors are located. It is necessary to take into account not only the time of the witness's appearance and to provide explanations or testifying, but also the time associated with travel. And I must tell you that... I would like to inform you with shame that the Polish state treats these people like grandparents. He treats them like grandpas because he is not even able to cover the costs associated with the minimum wage obligation. Yes, today, the amount of reimbursement for court appearances is less than a day's pay resulting from the conversion of remuneration at the minimum wage level. This is the result of this legislative initiative. The person who initiated this work was the Ombudsman. Today's cost... And let me remind you that every time a person who makes a request must show that reimbursement is justified, he must present the costs he incurs. This amount is PLN 82 31. We must also bear in mind that when a person is called as a witness, of course this involves a change of professional or family plans. And the obvious thing is that a lot of people... This is particularly the case for professionals, entrepreneurs, self-employed people. These regulations affect these people in a special way. The mere introduction of a maximum refund ceiling should in fact be considered reasonable. I will reiterate that this proposal refers to an increase in the refund ceiling, not to the fact that this refund is paid to everyone at this increased rate. This is justified because otherwise the hearing of particularly well-earned persons could exceed the financial capacity of courts and prosecutors. This is why we measure this phrase in the proposed amendment. We must remember that citizens' property rights are subject to constitutional protection. It can be said that disloyalty on the part of the state is that you do not look at the real costs incurred by the citizen The limit for this payment can even be set here. Only arbitraryly and in an absolutely unfavorable manner to today's financial realities is the amount of return determined. And let us remember that such a person is obliged to appear. In the absence of it, a fine may be imposed on the witness and even punished by a criminal order in the form of detention. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules governing the witness's right to return the earnings or income lost due to the appearance at the request of the court or body conducting the investigation in criminal or civil proceedings are contained in the relevant legislation. According to these provisions, remuneration for lost earnings or income for each day of participation in proceedings shall be granted to the witness, as I said, in the amount of his average daily earnings or income. But the legislator has determined the upper limit of those claims, which is equal to 4.6%. the basic amount for managers of public positions. This amount shall be determined by separate rules and budget law. Do not be deceived by the wording of the basic amount for managers of state positions. Let us remember that today this stunning boundary is about 80 PLN. What do we propose in our amendment? We propose an increase in this ratio of 4.6%. up to 10% In practice, we propose that the payout amount should increase from about 82 PLN to a maximum of 178 PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the often difficult financial situation of the Minister of Justice, to whom the Minister of Finance has consistently said that there is no money to carry out this or any other obligation. But, ladies and gentlemen, we need to know what we're talking about. In the budget, the cost in part 15 is more than PLN 7 billion 500 million. This increase in the costs of the appearance that we write down after the adoption of the maximum appearance, which is impossible at all, is estimated by the Ministry itself... These costs range from PLN 1 million 489 thousand to PLN 1 million 855 thousand. What does that mean? The fact that in the judiciary budget it is not 10%, not 1%, not 0.1% of this budget, only 0,025% the general court budget. A country that respects its citizens can afford such an expense. And I have no doubt that if we adopt amendments to these laws, the only thing that the Minister of Finance will have to do is to increase the Minister of Justice's budget for these extra expenses. We should really be saddened and ashamed that the Polish state tells its citizens that you have an obligation to appear in court or in the prosecution's office, but at the same time, by introducing such an obligation, it is not even able to cover reasonable costs in advance with the limits of expenditure that it incurs. I also have no doubt that this amendment will contribute to reducing the expenditure of the state budget due to a significantly smaller number of additional vocands. Today, the peril of various proceedings, both judicial and preparatory at the stage of the prosecution, is the absence of persons, the absence of witnesses. Unfortunately, from the discussions I had before the amendment of these provisions, e.g. with a barrister's community... I have been told that this is often the case, that there are situations where non-representation is actually motivated by financial considerations regardless of the nature of explanations, explanations or justifications which are presented as justifications for absence from the requesting authority. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I will say that it is rare that we are dealing with a project which should in fact be so clearly supported by all as to fulfil the obligation of a country whose lack of implementation puts the State at risk of ridicule. I do not want to use the word I used at the beginning of our debate for the second time, but since we are proud to say that Poland is a country that has made a civilization leap in the last 30 years, let us show that this civilization leap has also taken place at the level of elementary, fair rules of settlement between the state and the citizen on whom it imposes certain obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo...]] Excuse me, Minister. First of all... Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Kwiatkowski a question? I'm so sorry, Minister. Of course, it's a question that doesn't last more than a minute. I just saw that there are no senators available for the time being, but... there are no candidates, so the question is: would any of your senators like to ask... No. I'm sorry. First, the Minister's office. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister of Justice has already made his comments on this project. I, of course, support all these comments. I would like to point out that, on behalf of the Minister of Justice, I cannot support this legislative initiative, because the entry into force of this project will have far-reaching financial implications for the state budget in part 15 of the General Court, heading 755 That's the title of the part I pointed out. However, of course, I agree that this amount... I would add that this is not the amount of reimbursement of the costs of placing a witness before a court, because such reimbursement of both travel and reasonable accommodation costs is independent of the amount we are talking about at the moment. Such costs, in accordance with the rules resulting from the provisions and the documents submitted, shall be borne by the witness at all times as reimbursement of the costs of the appearance in the court. Here we're talking about the so-called. other claims which the employer, by releasing in accordance with the statutory obligation of the witness to appear in court, will not be covered by the witness. Then we talk about the fact that he is entitled to reimbursement of this debt in the amount of PLN 82,31 currently in force. So it can be said that this is such a loss of income for this day of appearance, if, of course, the employer of such income of the witness summoned to court deprives. This amount was indeed not valued and it should be accepted that it should be higher. The question is, would that be 10%? the minimum wage, or would it be a different percentage? But that's already under consideration by the High House. Regardless of this, I would like to point out that this amount multiplied by 22 working days, because this amount should be approached in this way, no longer gives the amount of the minimum wage, but gives the amount of about PLN 4 000. So for the one-off appearance of a witness in a court of law, there would be an amount equivalent to such a potential monthly salary that I have spoken of here. Regardless of this, I point out that after the expenditure is spent in 2019, the amounts of lost remuneration of witnesses and experts are PLN 1 million 263 thousand, and in 2020 expenditure for this purpose amounts to PLN 1 million 580 thousand. With regard to this amount of judicial expenditure for the reimbursement of lost remuneration of witnesses and experts Once again, I would like to stress: reimbursements of salaries, not travel costs or attendance costs and the amount planned for 2020, assuming an increase of 117,40% , the financial consequences for part 15 of the state budget I point out that both in the budget law for 2020 and in the draft budget law for 2021, part 15 of the General Court has not secured any funds related to the proposed amendment of the Article. 618b of the Code of Criminal Procedure and of the provisions of Article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. All the more so, I stress that we are now in an epidemic situation and that state expenditure is rather limited in different fields, so I am maintaining the position of Minister of Justice in this area and have a negative reaction to the proposed project. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you, Minister... Yeah, I used the wrong wording in the debate. The regulation we're adopting... This is the adoption of rules concerning the right of the witness to return earnings or income lost due to the appearance in court or before the prosecutor's office. According to these provisions, remuneration for lost earnings or income for each day of participation in proceedings shall be granted to the witness in the amount, I stress, of his average daily earnings or income. Thus, in the case of a witness in the employment relationship, the average daily income lost shall be calculated in accordance with the rules applicable to the determination of the worker's due equivalent for leave. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we're increasing... If we were to count it and for example. Well, it's not like that. This is the return calculated on the basis of the remuneration received by that person. Today, in fact, there's a limit, I mean. that person never receives a refund of lost earnings or income, because he is so calculated that he is less than the minimum salary. What does that mean in practice? The State consciously decides I'll use a polite term to save the citizen's money because he won't even return his lost earnings or income at the minimum wage level. That's the point of the change, that... the Ministry of Justice, as the Minister said, presented a negative opinion for budgetary reasons. The National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court have not submitted any comments, the Ombudsman A positive association of Polish judges expressed their support for these solutions, the Association of Attorneys Lex Super Omnia, fully supports the validity of the proposed changes, the Attorney General expressed a negative position, and the Supreme Council of Attorneys assessed the project positively. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on civil status. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 221, and the committee's report In print No 221 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Room 217. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz is coming. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to be rapporteur for the work of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission on the Act on Civil Status Acts. The draft Law amending the Law on Civil Status Act of 28 November 2014 was discussed at the Joint Meeting of the Commission on 10 December 2020. The project involves changes which entitle the municipality authority and the passport to access the civil status register for access to civil status records in the form of a summary copy. The aim of the proposed law is to simplify the administrative procedures for citizens to deal with the issue of the PESEL number, the obligation to report, to obtain a passport document and to obtain an ID card for persons who do not have a given PESEL number and were born outside the country. The bill on behalf of the group of senators of applicants was presented by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, i.e. me. This project will eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic difficulties and thus significantly facilitate the handling of basic issues by citizens. The necessary attributes of the citizen, which enable them to function in society, are among others. PESEL number and identity card, identity card or passport. In the case of persons born outside the country, a Polish birth certificate is required to obtain these attributes. A copy of this act is required to obtain a PESEL number, check-in, work ID and passport. The staff of the municipal authorities of this write-down, which is issued in paper form, must write by hand, which takes time, there is a risk of making a typographical error and this extends the implementation of these cases in general. The citizens must first take a copy from the office of civil status, which means they must pay another visit to the office, get their way out of the queue. This copy must be archived later, which also entails costs and creates a risk of personal data breach. You are certainly well aware of the situation with a grant intended for municipalities to carry out these tasks. The municipalities must add their own resources to these tasks. These are tasks commissioned by the government. The answer to these problems is the draft law. It assumes that the municipal authority and the passport will have access to the system in which the civil status records are located for the purpose of carrying out the statutory tasks, so that they can check the data and then use it for the execution of the case without the need for manual rewriting. It is a very large facility that fully exploits the possibilities offered by the System of State Registers. The staff of the municipal authorities already have access to the System of State Registers, they are users of the System and it is therefore necessary to allow them to check the data directly in the register of civil status. This solution will eliminate the paper document, reduce the time taken to implement the case, which will make it easier for the citizen to contact the administration. As a result, the proposed solution fully fits into modern standards of public administration, which should act as citizen-friendly as possible through the use of modern information technologies. The development and implementation by the Minister responsible for the computerization of functionalities allowing access to data contained in the civil status register is also necessary in order to achieve the objectives pursued in addition to the proposed changes to the law. The proposed rules include a 6-month vacathio legis. The proposed period is due to the need to implement in the System of State Registers supporting relevant public functional registers, which will allow for access to the data contained in the register of civil status by municipal and passport authorities and for the collection of data for the performance of statutory tasks. As a consequence, the proposed amendments will need to be amended in the current implementing rules. As part of the consultation, the positions were presented by: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Digitization, Mayor of the City of Zakopane, Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, Association of Rural Communities of the Republic of Poland, National Agreement of Local Government Organisations, Ombudsman, President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights and First President of the Supreme Court. The Mayor of Zakopane, who expressed his support for the proposed changes, pointed in particular to the impact of the regulation on the simplification of administrative procedures related to the implementation by persons not having a given PESEL number of cases in the field of issuing an ID card or passport. In the opinion of the Mayor of Zakopane, the introduction of the planned changes will result, among others. increasing the efficiency of public administration and shortening the timing of cases. The proposed changes were also supported by the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts. The position pointed out in particular the simplification of administrative procedures and underlined the impact of the project on the reduction of costs related to handling the case from the area of PESEL, the fulfilment of the reporting obligation, the issue of identity cards and passport to persons who do not have a PESEL number and were born outside the country. Support for the project in its position also presented the National Agreement of Local Organizations. The OPOS position points to the impact of the project on simplifying and speeding up the implementation of procedures and reducing the costs of carrying out tasks. The Association of Rural Authorities of the Republic of Poland, expressing its positive position, pointed out that the proposed change would facilitate the implementation of cases by citizens, speed up public administration proceedings and reduce the costs of carrying out tasks commissioned by municipalities and the state budget. It can therefore be said that the project has gained the support of all local organisations, regardless of political preferences. The Ombudsman also gave a positive position, which pointed out, among other things, that the proposed solution would significantly increase the efficiency of the public administration and reduce the costs of its operation and will have a positive impact on the quality of personal data by eliminating the possibility of confusion arising during manual data rewrite. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has welcomed the desire of applicants to simplify procedures and eliminate burdensome obligations for citizens. At the same time, however, he pointed out that, as part of the work on the System of State Registers, a register of passport documents is being prepared to allow passport authorities to access the register of civil status. However, the deadline for achieving this objective was not presented. In the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the scope of access to the civil status register in the form of a summary act appears insufficient from the point of view of the implementation of the application for a passport or a temporary passport. Negatively, the project was assessed by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. In his position, he stressed the lack of impact of the proposed regulations on the scope of personal data processed by municipal authorities and passport bodies, provided that access to the civil status register is granted to municipal authorities and passport authorities only to the extent provided for in the draft. However, he pointed out that giving the said authorities access to the civil status register to the proposed extent is currently impossible for technical reasons and will require a remodeling of the register, which, in the assessment of the president of UODO, will entail the need to bear costs exceeding the expected savings. The Supreme Court and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights failed to report their attention. On behalf of the Minister of Digitization, the Minister of State Adam Andruszkiewicz spoke. Which I cordially welcome. In his position with regard to the draft position, he pointed out that, in connection with the proposed by the Minister for Digitisation, in cooperation with the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, legislative work on the construction of a register of passport documents, which will ensure the access of passport authorities to the register of civil status, the issue of the access of passport authorities to the said register should be excluded from the draft law, for which I am prepared. With regard to the proposal to regulate access to civil status documents for municipalities, the Minister of Digitisation indicates that providing access to a preview of the current copy of the summary birth certificate would require technical changes in the register of civil status, which in turn requires a time-consuming process of preparing such functionality. In his position, the Minister also pointed out that the current legal system provides for the possibility for the municipal authorities to obtain a copy of the civil status act themselves from the office of civil status, without having to burden the citizen with the obligation to submit the document. Therefore, the Minister for Digitalisation does not recommend further work on the project. It is quite surprising that the government does not want the citizen's contact with the administration to be more efficient and friendly. With regard to the speech of the Minister of Digitization, I have prepared a proposal for an auto-correction which I am sure will meet him and will give the project the support of the government. In the discussion, Senator Czerwiński questioned the validity of the amendment to the Act, claiming that only a few hundred people a year are able to settle formalities requiring the collection of a summary civil act. In response, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz raised the fact that almost 75 000 citizens each year arrange for formalities for obtaining the PESEL number, passport or identity card, using the already obtained full act of civil status, which the official must manually rewrite by entering the data into the system, and this gives rise to the consequences previously discussed. Senator Tyszkiewicz also argued that in the 21st century traditional data rewriting is unimaginable, which is time- and labour-intensive and creates a risk of confusion, while IT systems allow for seamless data collection from already existing state registers. Senator Janusz Gromek also spoke, who as a long-term self-government officer fully supported the proposal for a change. Marek Wójcik, a representative of the Polish Towns Association, who fully supported the bill presented. Sławomir Wojciechowski spoke on behalf of the National Agreement of Local Government Organizations, fully supporting the bill. On behalf of the Civil Office in Lublin, the Head of the Office, Ms Monika Derecka, also fully supporting the project, spoke. On 10 December 2020, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration adopted the draft law together with the editorial amendment at their joint meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Are you Minister Andruszkiewicz? Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u230	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much. I would like to speak on behalf of both the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Cezary Maliszewski is with me. And present our common position. Speaking of Senator Tyszkiewicz's speech... Our government is as focused as possible on the maximum improvement of official procedures that we can transfer to the network. What we do I mean not only the extension of components, such as a trusted profile, or the possibility of operating in mCitizen's application, but also the last project, quite revolutionary, concerning electronic service, which I also had the honour of presenting in the Senate It seems to be an exemplification of the thesis that, however, digitalisation and such an innovative approach accompany us as much as possible in this respect. With regard to the project that you presented to Senator Tyszkiewicz, I think it is very important to tell the senator and all the senators that today there was a meeting of the steering committee on. The Register of Passport Documents, chaired by Minister Chefnernaker and Minister Zagórski, has been approved for the launch of this register. Mr. Senator, the date was set for October 2021. So I think that this is such a real and good time to meet the demands of the senator, who is the petitioner of this law. Generally speaking, with regard to the specific content of this law and the position of the government, I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that we believe that the proposed amendments would result in a significant extension of access to the civil status register. As of today, the technical capabilities of this register do not allow for limitation of access by individual authorities only to data from a summary copy of the civil status act. I would also like to quote the opinion of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, which I think is very important. The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, having regard to the amendments proposed in the draft law, stated that the concept is not correct in the proposed legal act and instead of a comprehensive settlement of the issue, leads to a serious danger of breaching the rules for the processing of personal data set out in the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, the popular GDPR. According to the opinion of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, the existing differentiation in the scope of access by individual authorities to records containing personal data is intended to protect against the accumulation of data in one place, which would be detrimental both in the context of data security and the rights and freedoms of data subjects. It is appropriate to agree with the opinion of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, which also draws attention to the fact that the proposed project provides for permanent access by municipalities and passport authorities to the register of civil status, while ensuring that these entities have access only to the data contained in the summary copies of Polish civil status records would not lead to granting them competence to process excess data. In the context of the doubts raised by the President of UODO, it is also technically possible to separate only the data contained in the copies of the summary civil status certificates in order to prevent unjustified access to them. In the margins, it should be pointed out that, with the launch of the System of State Registers, citizens were exempted from submitting a summary copy of the act of civil status, while dealing with a number of matters, to public administrations. However, as of today in the case of passport data, access to the System of State Registers has not been provided. At the same time, it should be pointed out that work is currently underway under the Operational Programme (Polska Cyfrowa) on the launch of a new register of passport documents, as I mentioned at the outset. Dear Senators, as regards the changes proposed by the designer, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the design itself is designed in the article. Paragraph 5 of the Act. 6a according to the government seems inappropriate. The content of the proposed regulations is doubtful. The text of the proposed legislation does not refer to the Passport Documents Act, whereas the wording of the provision is referred to inter alia. on the passport body and the purpose of the Act is to simplify administrative procedures related to, inter alia, with the performance of the tasks provided for in the Act of 13 July 2006 on passport documents. In conclusion, I would like to say that the regulations in force in principle ensure that municipal authorities and passport authorities can obtain a copy of the civil status act without the participation of the citizen, and that the application of the solutions proposed in the Act seems too far-reaching in the context of the existing provisions on the protection of personal data. While the idea of further de-formalising administrative activities seems right, it cannot be accepted that in the current legal state the procedure is very formalised. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator, we certainly did, as I told you in a conversation somewhere in the senate halls. And I'm still maintaining my declaration. We are ready to work on this, working together as much as possible. If this project is adopted by the Senate, we are also ready to talk about it in the Seym. For my part, I would like to invite the senator to such talks so that we can seek a consensus, because as much as possible in terms of reducing red tape and transferring up to a maximum number of public administration services to the network, we agree that this process needs to be extended and done as quickly as possible in our country. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u231	Thank you very much. At this point in time, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Janusz Bladder. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. We certainly have a problem, but I'll say this to Senator Tyszkiewicz: Senator, there's a chance. I see so positive in all of this that our senate initiatives speed up government work. And if it does, it's gonna be great. But why am I talking about this? Because I'm wondering, Minister, what it's like. Former Deputy Minister Buk and we often tried to stop her at Senate meetings or committees, say, rapid IT activities. We were the ones who said it might be too early to enter the central register of buildings, because there's so much personal information there that we don't know why he's not afraid of leaking personal data, since he'll have access to them even by a chimney sweeper. And here we're suddenly worried about some data that doesn't necessarily have to be available so quickly... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question. Because...]] Yes, a question. Why are you afraid of this solution, which Wadi Tyszkiewicz proposed and which seems very right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u233	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, thank you very much for this question, also for the positive memory of Minister Buk, which we certainly share. Definitely so, Mr. Senator, we are absolutely not afraid of a data leak. Besides, I also deal with the issue of publicising data in our country, the open data programme. We're standing in a position... Besides, the senator probably heard that in the European Union's rankings, the latest... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please turn on the microphone...]] ...the most updated, Poland is already a de facto leader in the provision of data in public space, of which we are all very happy. We simply stand in the position, together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, that this issue should be carefully worked out so that, in fact, the question of data security is tight, to put it directly on the last button, because it is such a sensitive issue and it is so detailed that we do not want any allegations, especially the opinion of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, to be upheld in public space. So that it is absolutely not that we completely deny this project, no one expresses such an opinion. We just want to talk about this project in further, I think, legislative work. Therefore, this declaration of mine in the final phase of my original speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u235	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question? No more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister! I'm very happy to be invited to the ministry, which I'm sure I'll take advantage of. Well, here, in all this, let's say, there's some hope that we'll come up with a solution after all. I'm gonna talk about it right now because I'm in my hands here, basically, with chess and mats, but I'm gonna talk about it right now. Let me put it this way: I have an answer for the president of UODO. We don't agree with him. There's a lot of contradictions out there. I'd be happy to show it to the Minister. We're not gonna settle this case today. Well, the president of UODO can't talk about the fact that personal data protection is at stake since such data can be obtained in the passport department. He denies himself in many ways. But that's not the point, because I don't want to take up much of your time. I would really like to respond to the allegations made by the president of UODO, which we completely disagree with, but that's not the point either. The fact is... It was raised by the Minister and by the parties that the Ministry is already quite advanced in its work. I'm not very happy about this October, because it's almost a year. Yeah, but there's work to be done. Indeed, there was a charge that in order for the passport department to benefit from the benefits of this law, it must be access to the full act, and we are talking about a summary act, which does not give rise to a great threat to personal data. I think the bigger threat is that a citizen with a document has to go to the office, and then maybe this document is lost, someone can steal it from him. The possibility of data loss is far more than a download from the register. It is not true that this access can be unlimited. This access can be limited. And now... But these papers, when it comes to passports, are indeed an argument. So maybe there are two arguments: that in the passport department we need access to the full act, and we are talking about a summary copy of the act, and that these works are ongoing. Therefore, I have an autocorrection to the bill. I'll read it. Which, so to speak, excludes passports from our bill. And the subject is settled. At this point, we only limit ourselves to short acts and access only if the formalities related to registration, identity card and population records are carried out. Maybe I'll read the contents of the autocorrection here. With regard to the digitalisation and internal affairs issues submitted by the Ministry, I submit a self-correction to the draft law and wishing to meet the government's IT projects. It concerns the modification of the wording of the Article. 1 and Article 1 2 by clarifying the scope and manner of access to data in the civil status register and extending the period of vacathio legis. And I keep reading. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 1 would be: 6a. In order to carry out the tasks set out in the Act of 6 August 2010 on Personal Evidence and the Act of 24 September 2010 on Population Records, the municipal authorities shall have access to the register of civil status only in respect of birth certificates. Access shall include the data provided for the summary copy of the birth certificate. So we're limiting it to the commune's organs. Since the passport departments will deal with this with the ministry in a different way, I would like to help at least the municipalities that are actually calling for these changes today. Believe me, I didn't come up with this bill myself. This is the result of conversations with many local governments and with people from civil states offices, from reporting departments, from departments that issue passports. It's their initiative, and I'm their, say, arm, because it's about helping local governments and helping communal authorities not to do unnecessary work there, not doing unnecessary work. So... Anyway, here, in the courtroom. From the right side of the room, but I won't mention the name There was also a charge, perhaps, that the passport department... the work is already underway and there is a need for a full file. Well, we're limited to a summary copy, and this amendment leads to the result that it's only going to be about the authorities of the municipality. The Act enters into force on 1 January 2022, i.e. we extend the vacathio legis. Here's my justification. As indicated in his speech, the Ministry of Digitisation and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are currently in the process of legislative work on the Passport Documents Act, which aim to thoroughly rebuild the passport register, including it in the System of State Registers, and to make the data available to passport authorities from the Register of Civil Status. For this reason, I believe that it is appropriate to exclude passport authorities from the proposed amendments and to leave the issue of the functioning of these authorities to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Digitalisation. In addition, data access issues in the civil status register have been clarified in a way that aims to further enhance the security of personal data processed. In carrying out their statutory tasks, the municipalities will only have access to birth certificates for the data provided for in the summary copy. A detailed analysis of the situation covered by the draft law indicates that it relates only to cases where the data contained in the birth certificate must be verified. So there will be no continuous access here. Therefore, the self-correction notified aims to exclude the possibility for municipalities to have access to the data contained in the marriage and death records. Data from these acts are updated in the PESEL register by the head of the civil status office. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the municipality authority to have direct access to these documents. So we're going against the allegations that the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, for example. I'm almost done. Just half a minute. In turn, the extension of the period of vacathio legis is dictated by the need to provide the necessary time for the implementation of the necessary modifications in the electronic system of the System of State Registers, which will allow the municipalities to see the register of civil status. According to the information obtained, the Ministry of Digitalisation currently engages all forces in current projects and would therefore not be able to meet the deadline of 6 months. I am convinced that these self-amendments will meet the expectations of the government and will result in the final version of the bill being supported by the government. Like us, the Senators submitting this bill, the government is committed to improving the quality of administrative services and seeking to take advantage of the opportunities of computerisation. Thanks to such laws, we are really moving towards modern standards of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. You've got three minutes left. [[Yes?]] Yes. [[Voice from the hall: Sing a little...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Janusz Gromek and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. The discussion is closed. [[I'm still here, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] You've filed a motion, Mr. Senator. [[It's about setting a deadline. What's the point?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u238	The Senate may also set a time limit for the submission of an additional report by referring the draft law to the committee. I'm asking you to set a deadline for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u239	Would the Minister like to comment on this proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u240	Yes, thank you. Dear Marshal, I would just like to say, as if in response to Senator Tyszkiewicz's opinion, that we look forward to the opinions that you spoke of. Of course, I am also waiting for these amendments to be tabled. We, as the government's side, will respond to them. For my part, I maintain the declaration of cooperation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. Following Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's request to set a deadline for committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to meet and prepare an additional report to carry out a third reading at that meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act, the Act on social insurance for farmers and the Act on personal income tax. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 233 and the committee's report In print No 233 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, but I'll fill in one thing. It is an extraordinary honour for me to be the rapporteur and representative of the applicants, and I will also be able to present this project in the presence of the chief volunteer fire chief, the President of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards, also the former President of the Council of Ministers or the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present, as rapporteur for the joint committees, and as the representative of the applicants, information on the proposal to amend the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Individual Income Tax Act. Ladies and gentlemen, as citizens, we want to feel safe and we expect you to ensure that we are safe. This project is undoubtedly about this. In carrying out first the duties of the Senator of the joint committees, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration at the joint meeting on 10 December adopted this proposal, recommending that the Senate adopt it. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, was adopted with 1 amendment, which postponed the date of entry into force of the law to 1 July 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is also unique because it has been adopted unanimously. All senators, participants of this meeting, a total of 30 senators, ladies and gentlemen, the senators voted in favour of this project, regardless of which clubs or the Senator's wheels represent. By decision of the joint committees, as I said, I represent this project as rapporteur in the Senate, but the joint committees have also decided that if the draft is adopted, the Senate will be represented in further legislative work by Senator Ryszard Bober, whom I thank for his commitment to this project. If you allow me, in carrying out the duties of the applicant's representative, I will move on to the substantive part. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is unique. As I said at the outset, citizens expect you to provide them with safety, as well as fire safety. The State's duties are generally carried out by public officials. Also in this case, in the case of fire protection it is the safety provided by the national fire escape system, you can say, operated by firefighters from the State Fire Department. But what does it turn out to be? He is operated not only by firefighters of the State Fire Department. This is a key issue and an exceptional case. In this case, the State does not fully fulfil the obligations imposed on it, since it would not be able, using only its professional services, to carry out this duty in full. The national fire-fighting system is supported by volunteer firefighters, because the state system would not be able to carry out all tasks, especially in rural areas where there are no major cities and there are no units of the State Fire Service. There they are, volunteer firefighters, volunteers, but really professionals, trained, professional and engaged. This is where I'm gonna apologize because I didn't say hello. Today, work on this initiative would not have taken place if it had not been for the social initiative. We have a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Adam Nowak, whom I now warmly welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is so that you look forward to the co-exercising of public tasks by volunteer firefighters, it is also your duty to thank you in a symbolic way for your efforts, commitment, endangering your life, eternal readiness and continuing to be on duty. And this project is a form of such a statutory, and also, let's add a symbolic thank you for your commitment. I'm talking about a symbol because let's all be aware that we're talking about a project. I will now present his details in which this form of thanks for this huge commitment is equivalent to 20 PLN for the annual service. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 PLN for risking your life. It is an honor for me to present this project, also because whether I was a Member or a Senator, I have always been a member of only one parliamentary, parliamentary or senate team And it was a firefighter's team. Now it's also an honor for me to be a member of the Senate Firefighters' Team. Ladies and gentlemen, what exactly is in this project? What do we want to thank the volunteers for? Or just for rescue, ladies and gentlemen? No. Today, the whole of Poland is fighting against the pandemic of Coronavirus. And all you have to do is look into any publication to see that those who are also in the first series of fights against the pandemic of coronavir are the volunteer firefighters. As early as April of this year, the guidelines were issued by the President of the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters on the participation of volunteer firefighters in the fight against the risk of the pandemic of Coronavirus. We see hundreds of relationships. We can read about how in the District Police Department of the State Fire Department in Krotoszyn, professional firefighters asked volunteer firefighters for help in disinfecting the House of Social Assistance in Baszkow, a room where there were people infected with the coronavirus. In many places volunteer firefighters are asked to help not only in disinfection of the premises, but also in setting up tents in which later studies for the presence of coritos are carried out, or in activities related to securing various facilities, including social assistance homes, where this pandemic has emerged. And here's where I want to thank you for that. Once again, the volunteer firefighters have shown that they are everywhere where citizens expect your help. You're always on standby. You're always on duty. Not just a fire hazard, not just a fight against climate threats, a flood You're always there. Not only is it social, cultural activity, for which we also highly value volunteer firefighters. But you are also everywhere where new threats, new challenges and new dangers for citizens appear. Volunteer firefighters can always cope with these challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the law itself about? The law regulates a matter which, as it must be said to one another honestly, but that is what I speak of without pride to any of the previous governments. And here I do not distinguish either right-wing or left-wing or center-centric. We have a chance to fulfill our statutory obligation to create good law. And undoubtedly this project, in which we express to the firefighters a thank-you in the form of a financial equivalent, an allowance for retirement, is one such good project. We are behind a very long discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees, including the Legislative Committee. We have been familiar with various opinions that indicate different values here. I have spent the last few days analysing each argument, both pro and against, which was given during the committee meeting in the context of the adoption of the draft or the presentation of my doubts about the project under examination. And let me try to resolve the doubts that have arisen. I am glad that we have a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Family in the Chamber, because we will be able to show you together that this project not only does not affect the social security system, but, on the contrary, it complements this system in a place where there is a manifest absence. It is true that we had different opinions at the committee meeting. The Minister of Family and Social Policy pointed out that voluntary firefighters are an important part of public service, but in the Minister's view, additional benefit to pension I quote from the opinion here. It is not justified in the construction of the social security system because it is an additional benefit to pension benefits. I have examined this argument very seriously. And I've got a list of all the pension benefits in front of me. Because if it turned out that this proposal was the only one that introduced the only breach in the pension system, I would certainly admit that this project was difficult to accept. But what did it turn out to be? It turned out that in the pension scheme we have at least dozens of pension allowances. We've got a maintenance supplement, we've got a supplement for complete orphans, we've got a combatant supplement, we've got a supplement for secret teaching, we've got a supplement for the injured veteran. We also have other benefits that are not called additions, but are exactly the nature of the pension allowance, because they are benefits for ex-soldiers forced to hire, cash benefits for deportees, cash benefits for people who are civilian blind victims of war activities, we have a lump sum of energy, remind you that these are the benefits paid to seniors, we have a cash equivalent for the right to free coal, we have a cash equivalent for ex-rail workers... So here are the benefits for the next professional groups. We have planned or introduced additional benefits to pensioners, which are indeed pension allowances, which are 13th or planned 14th pension, 500+ supplement for independent seniors, allowances for pensioners due to their aged age. We also have benefits of the same nature with an addition to the pension benefit, i.e. equalisation of the pension to the lowest pension, i.e. benefits paid on the basis of the pension law. What does that mean in practice? That there's no argument that the volunteer firefighter's allowance will in any way violate the pension system. On the contrary, it will complement it where there is clearly a certain event that should be removed as soon as possible. What other opinions could we read? I would like to draw your attention to the extremely interesting opinion of the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, because in this opinion the President states that the proposed changes are beneficial for the pensioners of the cash register, who are members of the TSO, and therefore the cash register does not comment on the draft law on the granting of the fire supplement. I am talking about this because when we read the opinion of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, it turns out that he presented a negative position on the proposed project. Why? That is because it will increase costs in the part of the social security of farmers. Pay attention to this. I have the impression that the Minister of Agriculture didn't even know what he had said, and he didn't think it was the same as the head of the state institution. The Social Insurance Fund In fact, for that area. Of course, we have support for the proposed changes from the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards, and, of course, the Minister of Finance, which is a customary opinion in this situation, because it shows growth Yeah, it's an increase, but we'll tell you right away what it is. Budgetary expenditure in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now tell ourselves what financial costs we are talking about. If all the criteria are met... Because the bill tells us very precisely who the proposed benefit can receive. This witness can be given to a volunteer firefighter who was directly involved in rescue operations, and he is also a person who has been an active member of the volunteer fire department for 20 years. A positive verification of active membership shall be carried out by means of a total of: the cumulative fulfilment of several conditions, i.e. direct participation in rescue operations, the possession of current medical examinations allowing participation in rescue operations and the completion of fire training to participate in rescue operations. I stress once again: only the cumulative fulfilment of all conditions entitles you to receive this benefit. According to the calculations, we have this in the impact assessment of the regulation, we estimate that the annual cost of this benefit is about PLN 200 million and that there will be about 150 thousand eligible. This estimate was also made on the basis of analyses of how many volunteer firefighters participate in the national rescue system. So it's about those who're taking part in the action personally. Ladies and gentlemen, every system must also allow verification, so we have introduced a verification of whether these conditions are met. This verification shall be carried out at the level of the competent governor, mayor or president of the city, who shall issue a certificate of compliance by the insured person with the requirements set out in the amendment in question, after, of course, the presentation of all documents proving that those conditions have been fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, although there are about 700,000 volunteer firefighters, we are talking about 16 thousand existing voluntary firefighters in Poland, those taking only a few thousand CSR units are already active. Because you have to meet very strict requirements to be in the national rescue system. Only a few thousand units of TSOs participate in the national fire protection system. As I said, here the requirements must be met, i.e. the unit must be equipped, rescuers must be trained at a level that allows specialized rescue operations to be carried out... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, time is running out.]] I'm almost done. That is why I believe that if we do not adopt this regulation today, unfortunately, in the very short term, we will increasingly come into contact with the situation in which this national firefighters will no longer be able to supplement this national emergency and fire-fighting system, because they will not be willing to perform this heavy but extremely necessary service. Today we have a unique possibility of such a symbolic 'cause we're talking about such amounts. Thanks to the volunteer firefighters. And it can also be part of a certain interest of young people to join voluntary firefighters, which we, as citizens, are extremely interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u243	Thank you very much. Stay still, Mr. Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, then. Welcome to the Chamber of Representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Swed. We also welcome the President of the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland, Mr Waldemar Pawlak. And we also welcome a member of the Bureau of the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland, Mr Adam Nowak. Is a government representative First of all, I'd like to ask you a few questions about the bill submitted? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Prime Minister! I have already spoken on this subject at the committee meeting, and we have presented the appropriate letter to the President. But let me put it briefly: the story of the supplement to the fire department's retirement allowance is long. Because this is... the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth... and now the ninth term of the Seym. As the President rightly pointed out, the issue has not yet been resolved. We should also ask ourselves why this did not work. In similar positions concerning individual projects, the main charge was what the President said: that this affects the pension system. There's also a similar voice in my correspondence today. We don't have... We absolutely appreciate voluntary firefighters, firefighters, their hard work, their service, but we believe that this should be regulated in the Fire Protection Act, not in the pension insurance system. That's what's causing this problem, how to regulate it. Of course, financial issues are important. Today we're talking about resources of 150 million. It is difficult to assess whether these estimates are correct or not. Well, I think more people could benefit from it, but that's not the problem. The problem is that we do not want to create another group that will operate on the basis of pension allowances, all the more so because the uniformed services are in a separate pension system, which is financed by the state budget. The pension insurance system is a premium scheme. Well, we're saving up, and that's why we're getting our pension paid. I hope we can work out a solution on the basis of this project. We agree that we should find a way to make up for this heavy service of volunteers, firefighters and rescuers. I am absolutely convinced that we should regulate this, and whether we do it in one way or another, this is still a matter for discussion. I hope that during this term of office of the Sejm we will be able to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. Would Mr Waldemar Pawlak like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u246	Dear Marshal! High Senate! In the beginning, I would like to thank you very much for this valuable initiative on behalf of the entire community of volunteer firefighters, volunteer firefighters, the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland. I particularly address these thanks to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, the rapporteur and the representative of the applicants. This is a very important initiative, which is an expression of respect for our country, all of us, for those who save people, their lives and their health in a selfless way. It is worth noting that at the beginning of the transformation, it was a very important task to build a civil protection system. In our country it is based on such 3 basic components, i.e. on a voluntary, local and national composition. This is a unique mechanism in the world that connects volunteers with the structures of state authorities. Thanks to this, in every corner of Poland, even in the smallest village, we can feel safe because there are people who are ready to help and save those whose life or health is at risk. It's also very important to stress the importance here... At the initial stage of the transformation, these activities were aimed at equipment, equipment, so that rescuers would have the opportunity to act effectively. The time has come when we can move from the next stage to honoring, respecting those who personally participate in rescue activities. This is particularly important just now, when the transformation of civilization has led to a situation in which equipment is available, there is equipment, and sometimes there is a shortage of people who could use this equipment and participate effectively in the action. I think that this initiative is very valuable from this point of view, very much needed. It is worth noting here that out of this crowd of volunteer firefighters, which has about 700,000 people, the law affects about 250,000 people who actively participate in rescue operations. It is also about 40,000 rescuers who have been trained and trained with qualified first aid, so they can participate in these activities in a very professional manner. Now, at a time of pandemic, this is very important. We're approaching the vaccination process. It will be very important to support the whole project to the extent possible, so that it can become effective in terms of epidemics, in society as a whole. In conclusion, I would like to stress that volunteers act selflessly. Sometimes there are mistakes and there are talk of an equivalent that is paid as a kind of remuneration. That's not payback. It's just a refund of lost income. If the employer had retained the salary of a volunteer firefighter participating in the action, this volunteer would not have obtained this equivalent. From the State's point of view, these are huge benefits, including financial benefits, because the cost of a professional, professional, fully paid unit is more than 4 times higher in terms of handling the event than in the case of voluntary units, taking into account the cost of equipment, equipment and operation of those units. Once again, Mrs. Marshal, I thank the High Senate for this valuable initiative and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski for running this project in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u247	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, there is now a project in the Sejm, which is practically identical, concerning the same issue. What is the state of work on this project? Will this project help with this initiative, or will it prevent it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! There is a continuation of the work on the civil project from the previous term of office, he is currently being considered by the Sejm. Will it help, or won't it help? It's hard for me to answer that question. This case, as I have already said, is for the fifth term of office in the Sejm and has still not been resolved. We should solve it, the expectations of volunteers to handle this matter are high. As I was saying, I was talking in the context of the retirement allowance... Maybe we need to find another way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u250	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u251	Yes, by way of an explanation, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator and the rapporteur also mentioned several or several different allowances, benefits, etc., which are paid on the occasion of retirement. Are they included in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act? Or are there special laws that guarantee a different way of functioning and financing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u252	There are special laws. And so on. In the Veterans Act there are extras for veterans. There is no such entitlement in the pension system, only in the case of complete orphans and in the case of... Now, I'm going to look at the handwriting that I've been directing to you... [[It's a maintenance supplement.]] No, the care supplement is also derived from another law, not from the system bill... Oh, yeah, a maintenance supplement and a supplement for complete orphans. You're right, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u253	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u254	Minister, is it true that working on this project in the Sejm is that, in this term of office, the committee is not once emphasized: not once Didn't she get together to work on this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u255	I don't have that kind of knowledge. It's hard for me to say. I didn't attend this meeting. And if there was a meeting, it's hard for me to refer to it. I'll make it easier for the Minister... The Commission has not gathered once to work on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u256	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any questions? I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is Senator Jackowski in one of the rooms? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's okay.]] [[Well, maybe I...]] Mr. Senator, would you like to speak? You're welcome, Senator Komorowski. I understand you're replacing the senator, but will you speak for yourself? [[For you.]] For yourself? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u257	For you. I don't know if you're a replacement, but I'm sure Senator Jackowski supports this initiative. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I listened attentively. I was also involved in the work of the Legislative Commission when she dealt with this draft law • the President's report and the statements of the President. A lot has been said here. Well, I have been the chairman of the district board of the Zombrowi Volunteers' Association for 22 years, and I also have some functions in the relationship, in the voivodeship board and generally in the union authorities, and the issue of this environment is known to me. Well, it has to be said in general, and here I am addressing the Minister, that our country has passed on so much, and even a lot of different kinds of financial resources, these were various kinds of subsidies, car purchases, funding of the national rescue and fire-fighting system, various kinds of programmes, differently shaped by different governments. That in order not to complete this pension allowance for firefighters at the moment... In fact, the situation in large cities is quite different from the situation in the field, in small towns, in rural villages. In large cities practically this fire protection provides, you can say, whole... Well, I don't think so, I don't know that in Warsaw fire protection is provided by voluntary firefighters. Well, maybe in the suburbs. And so it is... [[Voice from the hall: Happy.]] Oh, the merry one? But this is... Yeah, actually there's a happy ward. But that's the general way the State Fire Department provides it. However, in the field, in these small towns, in rural villages, etc. this security is provided by half, you can say, the State Fire Department and voluntary firefighters. The environment, I'll put it this way... 'Cause I'm not... That's why I didn't have any questions. I had some questions at the committee meeting, we were talking about the entry into force of the bill, and we were talking about some solutions in the circles. I didn't have any questions, and I don't really have any questions, because work in the Sejm will be crucial. The Minister says that there is already a project and work is ongoing. There's some kind of government fitting. I am staying, and I would like to remain convinced that we will be able to complete this matter during this term of office. And I wouldn't want it to just be a dispute, whether it's in the social security system or outside the social security system. I will say that the fire environment is simply waiting for this regulation very much. This project is going to pass because it's definitely going to go to the Parliamentary. I hope that the Sejm and the government will find a solution together to settle this issue. And finally, I'm just gonna say 'Cause here you could really talk a lot about the system, about training, about what it looks like. There's one more thing. If you were dealing with an action in the area carried out by the fire department, you would not be able to tell whether a state fireman or a volunteer firefighter is providing assistance on several occasions. Practically uniformed... Well, at the moment, the details start to vary, but you really need to be a professional to tell the difference between uniforms and details. Because in general, the helmets are different, one is white, the other is red. But basically... And the duties of voluntary guards, i.e. those from the national system, those who leave, are practically the same as a state firefighter. A public fireman is at work, he's in the service, he comes and he does nothing else. A volunteer firefighter still takes care of his business, his work. Thus, this effort, participation in these trainings, all this leads to the issue being regulated. The point is that we should finally stand above all this, beyond the problems of all the governments that have already been mentioned and that have not dealt with this problem, and that we should show that this government can deal with it. Without a government decision, this initiative will be transferred to the Sejm and we will wait. I have here a hot appeal to the Minister just to think about it, because you've put too much into it. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. The state has already put too much money into the functioning of voluntary firefighters so that we will now lose the ability to operate them, their actions. 'Cause sometimes it's like, really, with no security... It would also be a motive and an impulse to stop these young people. After all, we have youth teams, different teams, and then these young people go to big cities, you know, college, work, etc. And volunteer firefighters are left alone. To conclude, I'm just going to say that it's possible to put it this way: voluntary firefighters are our good, they're family silver. That's one way to say it. It's just something that's a value in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u258	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jackowski made it at the last minute. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister! There's a saying: he'll always make it, and I took it. Thank you for the opportunity. I called the meeting secretariat, said that for reasons beyond my control... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: We waited, Mr. Senator.]] I know. I asked to be moved to the end of the line, but there were no speakers. But it doesn't matter now. High Izbo, I will immediately say that I will vote in favour of this project... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: So do we.]] [[So do we.]] ...and for a very simple reason. Well, in the election campaign, driving among others. with Mr Pawlak, with Mr Wąsik from our district of parliament and senator, from whom Mr Pawlak has already been a Member many times, and knows this district perfectly well, the northern Mazowsze, the plock-ciechanski district, during meetings with fellows and firefighters, we promised that this supplement in this term of office will be taken care of. I have accepted this as a serious commitment and will support this project. And I hope that this project, as long as it goes to the Sejm, and I am so convinced that it will, will also be quickly processed in the Sejm, so that this commitment is fulfilled as soon as possible. Apart from the moral issue that governments have committed themselves and have failed to do so, there is a question of social justice. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to treat voluntary firefighters as so-called. The fifth wheel in the car. On the contrary, this is the foundation of the Polish state and for many reasons, I mean the security of citizens and property, social life, cultural life. Can you imagine any celebration, especially in smaller towns, rural areas, without the participation of the fire orchestra? Can you imagine state, local, religious celebrations without the banners of voluntary firefighters? I can't imagine it. And millions of Poles who participate in such celebrations throughout the country do not imagine it either. Few of this, in our previous term of office, we adopted a law that increased the number of statutory tasks of voluntary firefighters. E.g. We have written down this cultural role of firefighters, because the firefighter's orchestra is simply an institution of culture in the county or in a given community, where there is a volunteer firefighter. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a permanent landscape of our social, cultural, very important landscape. And now, if there weren't any fire buddies, there wouldn't be a national security system. Who cares about these problems knows perfectly well... Well, it used to be said fire guard because she dealt mostly with fire incidents. Right now, that's maybe a dozen percent of her activity. Depends on the terrain. But can you imagine... When any natural disasters come, who's the first? Friends of the firemen. Who's helping the residents? Friends of the firemen. Who's making it to the scenes? Who's protecting all this? Who's pumping water after flooding and flooding? Every year it is. These are not marginal phenomena in our social or economic life. Unfortunately, these are cyclical phenomena and without friends of firefighters in such a situation just wouldn't have anyone to help these people or it would have been hours before the proper services and units arrived. It's a matter of extra. Well, High Izbo, Prime Minister Pawlak pointed out that bridesmaids and bridesmaids volunteers, taking up service, because this is service, this is a calling. When obliged to appear in accordance with certain procedures in case of an alarm, they leave their workshops, their workplaces, they are taken away from them and do not have time to earn. And this should also be included in this account, the balance sheet of the Polish State. Because if the Polish state had counted... Professional guards are about 30,000 firefighters, maybe 35,000, right now I don't have such accurate data, Prime Minister Pawlak... Well, that's the row of greatness. And there are some 690,000 firefighters' buddies, some 60,000 of which are here in Mazowsze. At my place, in the Ciechanowski district, for example. There are about one and a half thousand firefighters on 90,000 inhabitants. This shows how many are these people, socialists, people of great heart who are devoted to their calling. Few people ride voluntary firefighters can see that they are sometimes friends of firefighters in the fourth and fifth generations. Grandfather served, great-grandfather served, great-grandfather served. Once, when guards were set up 100 years ago, it was the ancestors who were involved. And if the Polish state were to organize a professional network of all these remiz, these safeguards, which are And as I say, there are random events, traffic accidents, hydraulic equipment to extract victims of accidents... There are seven of us, unfortunately, the way of death. Now it's being upgraded, and I hope that security will increase. How many events are there like this in front of Mława? How many fatalities were there? How many do you hear? Who goes first except the police and the ambulance? Volunteer firefighters. Who pulls the wounded out of these cars with this hydraulic equipment? It's a traumatic service. It's not like you're gonna go in uniform to religious celebrations, get a medal, and there's gonna be a meeting at the firehouse, because that's often the picture of it. This is the daily hard service. And that is why, for all these reasons, I think it is a moral duty of the Polish state to grant such an addition. I will, of course, vote in favour of this addition. And if the government thinks it's a system failure... We have heard these arguments, there has been an ongoing discussion on this subject. President Kwiatkowski has shown that there are very different additions that are still coming out of this system that we currently have, which is why it seems to me that the government should take a constructive approach to this project. And I appeal from this tribune that as soon as possible it may be possible to process it in the Seym as soon as it comes out of the Senate to get this supplement in as soon as possible. It was right to draw attention to the discussion here... Ladies and gentlemen, this money is absolutely not fit for effort, sacrifice, risking your life, etc. I absolutely don't want to value what it's worth. This is a symbol, but very important, especially for these people, because they recognize that the Polish state appreciates their efforts, and society, because the state is us, society, with our taxes is maintained. And it also has a symbolic, moral dimension, one that belongs to bridesmaids and firefighters. As far as the criteria are concerned, Senator Kwiatkowski presented them here. Well, that goes for, as I understand it, groups of about 16,000 people, there are so many people who meet the criteria... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] [[Voice from the room: Well, a little more people...]] A little more? Okay. But these criteria must be met together, so it is not that it will be granted after consideration and someone who, for example. He was sitting in a firehouse and taking phone calls, and he's gonna have an allowance for someone who doesn't meet the other criteria, and he's gonna have a supplement for that. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] So once again, I want to encourage everyone to vote for this bill. And the government, Minister, I want to encourage you to give the green light so that it goes on quickly in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I hope that after that 20-minute speech, the senator will be speaking briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, it will be very briefly and in the context of those statements that were before me. No one will blame you if you accept a government project in the Sejm; it is important that you accept it as soon as possible. My previous speaker also talked about the unique cultural role of voluntary firefighters. I must say that when I was president of the NIK for six years in a row organized Flag Day, it was the only idea I could think of to build the proper framework for this event in the Supreme Chamber of Control, it was the invitation of volunteer firefighters, and basically the Orchestra of the OS in Kwiatkowice from the municipality of Wodzierada. I wanted the community of state controllers that day, at this unique moment, to be accompanied by firefighters from the brass band in Kwiatkowice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you twice, because I also thank you for the succinctness of the speech. I'll inform you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm still...]] Mr. Senator wasn't voicemailed. [[I was supposed to be at first, but because of...]] I don't see... Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u263	It'll be really short. This call of God for glory, people for the benefit of firefighters for over 160 years. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I will not dwell on this, because it is beautifully said by Senator rapporteur Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, whom I would like to thank here. I would like to thank Marshal Grodzko for carrying out this legislative process at such a rapid pace. And I believe that today in this Chamber a project will be adopted, which will go to the Sejm, and that various projects will meet there. The one that is already on the social initiative, the government project and our project, and from these projects there will be the right law. Many have been thanked here. And I actually took the floor on one point. In order to thank local governments, local authorities contribute to the fact that volunteer firefighters function so well. They also finance voluntary firefighters, and it did not come out of this tribune. Thank you. And please accept the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u264	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much to the President and to the member of the board. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on education law, the law on childcare of children under the age of 3 and the Act on primary health care. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 196 and the committee's report In print No 196 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Alicja Chybicka, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski for taking this difficult initiative. With us, in Wrocław, for a long time there was a group that collected signatures. And that was an incentive to take care of it. Big chapeau bass, Mr. Senator. Now, about the committee meeting... This is the report of the meeting held on 16 December in the composition of the Health Committee, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission. It is a draft amendment to the law The Commission unanimously recommended that 1 Senator abstains from voting. The discussion was very long and very abundant. We've basically discussed all the problems. I would like to stress that Minister Kraska has also spoken positively about this project. As you know, vaccination is one of the greatest achievements. It has helped to avoid many diseases that previously plagued people. It was diseases like diphtheria, tetanus, mumps, measles. They occur occasionally in the population of Polish children, but in recent years we are dealing with quite high activity of anti-vaccine movements. I do not know if this is due to the fact that many people have a lack of knowledge, maybe they are afraid of complications, it binds the complications that accompany the vaccinations, wrongly to the cause of other diseases that follow. I think that in this matter, not enough information, education, and that it is necessary to repeat it over and over again and, so to speak, in pink. In this project we have written down that any child who wants to get into kindergarten... One of the conditions for receiving children is in the mouth. It is necessary to provide a certificate of the child's possession required by the preventive vaccination provisions or a certificate confirming the contraindication to vaccination in accordance with the preventive vaccination programme. There was a discussion here because both Mr. Senator Czerwiński and I thought it had to sound strong. And it actually sounded pretty good because someone who doesn't come with this card from a primary health care doctor, a pediatrician or a health book... Because I want to remind you that in April of this year, the Ministry of Health published a whole book. There's a big vaccine in there, that's what we call it. a vaccination book which may be separate or attached to this printing. This is a really supportive undertaking and I hope that it will be, as at the committee meeting, unanimously adopted by the High Senate, because Polish children really deserve to be vaccinated. I would like to stress that Poland has signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so there is an obligation to treat a child as a little man who will one day grow up. Therefore, vaccinations that belong to this child should be carried out. I know the parents probably think it's better if they don't inoculate the baby because there won't be any complications. Unfortunately, this is not the case. All scientific knowledge does not indicate that. We discussed this for a long time, but the effect was as I presented at the beginning, so we adopted it almost unanimously, with one abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u266	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Yes? Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wouldn't be taking the floor now, because actually everything should be clear, but unfortunately, at the committee meeting, both the professor, the senator and I actually concluded that it should be necessary for the child to be admitted to a nursery or to a public kindergarten, of course, in the field of compulsory vaccination. Well, yeah, there's really two institutions: one is nursery, the other is public kindergarten. While in the first version of the bill, the initial one, from print No. 196, in the case of nursery, i.e. we are talking about the Children's Care Act up to the age of 3, the changes were added so That was the mouth. Article 3 11 that it sounded categorically: One of the conditions for receiving children is the submission of a certificate of child's possession required by the preventive vaccination provisions or a certificate of contraindications... In short, according to the original version of the project, the child for nursery and children's club etc. Let's put it briefly to the nursery only if the vaccination certificate has been submitted regardless of the form of the certificate. As long as it was in the first version, that's all it was now, I'd say, softened. I don't know what the authors of the bill were afraid of. Or your courage? Well, listen to what art sounds like now. 1 in this bill. It's in the article. 3a in the mouth. 1 the following shall be inserted after point 6a of point 6... Well, that's the mouth. One? The parent applying to take care of the child in a nursery or a children's club or by a daily guardian shall provide the following data in the form of a declaration or certificate:... And these are obvious data related to the baby. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] Good. One of these data should be whether the child has the required protective vaccination. This is in the text of the project. Only the submission of information, not a word of it, is that it is a condition for the child to be vaccinated. That means we're leaving the obligation for daycare, and unfortunately it's even worse, because when it comes to daycare... He wasn't there. I'm talking about getting into kindergarten. In the original version, the start, and unfortunately, it is not, in the version that we are now considering, in print no. 196 S. To sum up, Professor, I don't know if you've agreed to this because you're the applicant's representative... [[No.]] I'm sorry, not applicants... [[No, Senator Zdrojewski.]] Senator Zdrojewski. You're the rapporteur... [[...of the committee.]] Well, right now, we're working on a bill that's got teeth ripped out, just like that. Information issues... well, lovely... But so what if there are information issues dealt with, as there is no basic statement in the case of either institution or nursery or kindergarten: the condition is to inoculate the child.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u268	Mrs. Senator... [[Shall I answer now, Mrs. Marshal?]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u269	Mr. Senator, I don't think so. I think you're misinterpreting this. I've got a vaccination schedule in front of me... But I'm going to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski for help, because he's the applicant's representative. I presume to think like you that it may be too mildly written, but it seems to me that it is well written, in particular in conjunction with what the Ministry of Health published this year, and the documents that the child's parent must present, appearing in kindergarten or day care to record the child. And this point 3 is hard, that whoever doesn't show that the baby is vaccinated... and doesn't present it if the baby hasn't been vaccinated. I want to highlight one more thing. This is about a mandatory vaccination calendar, which, if you know him... And if you don't know this calendar, I'll say that for most vaccines, it's like this: the second month of life is diphtheria, Haemophilus, hepatitis B, pneumococci, rotaviruses and meningococci, and these are already recommended vaccines; the third and fourth months are Hib, Poliomyelitis, pneumococci, DTP, IPV; the fifth and sixth months... The child is already inoculated with primary vaccinations by the seventh month. So it's safe to accept this child if his parent brings such a certificate. Now I'm going to ask Senator Zdrojewski for help.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u270	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u271	Yeah, I'm very short. Well, the professor's right, and the senator's right. Unfortunately, we cannot use the common denominator or such a quantifier to include children in daycare and in kindergarten as regards recruitment. Why? Because daycare is a unit that belongs to health care units and kindergartens belong to educational units. Educational units are subject to a specific obligation arising from the constitution of the mandatory admission of any child who applies for this kindergarten. It, yes, must meet certain criteria related to the place of residence, is a determined order, but it must not introduce other criteria other than those that function. We have decided to make progress in this matter, i.e. so that in the case of daycare, if the child does not have vaccination, the child may not be accepted. And we provide the opportunity to make a verification in this respect, which is extremely important. And that's what the professor was talking about. Because these vaccines are the most important de facto in the first year. As far as kindergarten is concerned, we have decided to take a milder step, in line with the rules of law, so as not to expose ourselves to the charge of unconstitutionality. So we force our parents... well, we require them to bring a certificate of vaccination in the book. But unfortunately we cannot, apart from including this criterion, lead to the situation that if the parent brings certificates and there is some gap in vaccination, the child will be eliminated from the educational process, because it would be a violation of the constitution. For us, it will be valuable to know at this stage whether parents have violated the law. And there are other legal mechanisms to determine the state of affairs in accordance with the law, which means that the child should be implanted according to a medical recommendation. Mr. Senator, which makes me happy, would like it to be mandatory and unconditional, too, but unfortunately we cannot do that, because we would be exposed to non-compliance not only with the Constitution, but also with other laws that apply to the Constitution. So we require the presentation of this document. We can draw different conclusions, lead to legal compliance, but we must not do one thing: to condition this document, its internal state, the child's refusal to accept the education system. Unfortunately, that would be a violation of constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u272	Thank you very much. [[Is there anything else I can add?]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u273	Senator, the duty of education, if I'm not mistaken. But maybe I'm wrong. It starts with a zero, which is for a 6-year-old. So if he shows up... There's no obligation to save everyone... Not all Polish children, and not because of vaccination, go to kindergarten. And it's not criminal at the moment. Maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u274	That's not true, although you're right about the compulsory education system. But we have a situation where the whole kindergarten is treated as an individual of the educational system. If the parent wants to save the child for kindergarten, then the local government is obliged not only to own this place in kindergarten, but also to accept this child.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Would you like to ask me another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u276	Unfortunately, yes, because we here, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about a different project than the one that was discussed at the committee meeting. The laws that are changed are the same here, but the changes have been pasted to completely different places. First of all, the arguments of the senator, the representative of the applicants, Senator Zdrojewski... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, this may need to be raised in the discussion, and this is a question. One minute.]] But I'd like the senator to take that into account. 'Cause it's basic... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It's so fast and more...]] Okay, I'll be quicker. Well, Senator Zdrojewski's arguments have nothing to do with reality. Saying it's an obligation to have a child aged between 3 and 6 in kindergarten, which is before the age of school duty, that's what I'd call it... First of all, it's unclear because I didn't find it... But maybe you're right, but if that's the case, it's an obligation included in the bill in one of its provisions. And we can make an exception out of that obligation. Why? That's where you're right. This is about protecting constitutional values. What are we protecting more? The right of a child to learn in kindergarten, from the age of 3 years, or the health and life of children? Let's just say a short text here. Vaccinations prevent death and very significant diseases, which then result in disability. And we're just saying it. That's what you said in the original recipe. And now, in this recipe, you're off duty at daycare. I'm talking about this yellow print... It's not enough that you're going down in daycare because you're making a pointless recipe about kindergartens. One more sentence, although I know your marshal is in a hurry, but these are very important issues... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I'm not the one in a hurry, Mr. Senator, there are just rules...]] Good. This is... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: You have been asking this question for a long time.]] Yeah, but those rules are so unfair... As I say, there are two different projects. One was discussed at the committee meeting, and this one is completely different. I'll read it to you. At the committee meeting, the Rule was amended. 131, adding lips. 7a and 7b in education law. And now we're changing the same article beautifully but in another paragraph, in the mouth. 2, the following point 5a is inserted after point 5... I'll read you this paragraph and this point. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 2 131: In the case of more candidates fulfilling the condition, etc., etc. The following criteria shall be taken into account in the first stage of the recruitment procedure. And now all these points, to point 5, are the criteria for how to stratify children when there are more than places. One of these criteria is to certify that the candidate has the required vaccination. Beautiful, but this is a criterion for placing children in order, it is not a criterion that prevents the adoption of a child, which is, in short, not implanted. Not much, this point applies when there are fewer places than children. And if there's more places than children, then it's mandatory to take all the children, even without... well, without stratifying those children. It's easy. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What is this debate?]] [[But the question can't last 10 minutes.]] [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] I'm sorry. The idea itself was very right, but what was made of it... I don't know what you're scared of. I am now speaking to the applicant's representative. And you came down in the case of crèches of obligation, from a condition, not a matter of...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u277	Mr. Senator, please respond. You're welcome. The questions are to last a minute. It is possible to do so in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u278	I'll answer you less than I've been asking. First of all, we didn't get off duty at all in the case of daycare. This minor correction is due to the Legislative Bureau. In the latter case, it is similar. It was the correct location of the criterion of the need to submit a certificate. Mr. Senator is right about both of them having a different effect, but unfortunately it has to be. So that's what I was talking about earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u279	Thank you very much. No further questions. There's a representative of the Ministry of Health in the room, Senator Waldemar Kraska. Does the senator, as a representative of the government, wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the procedure for proceding this law is very fast, it can be said that express, at the moment there is no official position of the government as to the draft of this law. My position presented at the committee meeting, the joint committee, is unchangeable. As a representative of the Ministry of Health, as a doctor, I am definitely in favour of the emergence of the Polish society being as great as possible. We all know that vaccination is an investment of every country in protecting the health of its citizens. If the morbidity rates are dropping, that's it. It's just one of the effects of a lot of prognosis. Maybe I'll give you some examples of vaccinations that have been introduced. I think the state, especially the older ones, who remember the so-called. jaundice, which is hepatitis B, a fairly common condition that occurred among children... When we introduced infant vaccinations in 1996, it practically disappeared. We also introduced vaccinations for boys against measles, mumps and rubella in 2006, which has also strongly affected that we are not seeing these diseases at the moment. All world organisations that stress the importance of vaccination say that in order for society to be safe, the level of vaccination should be above 95%. Well, unfortunately, in the last few years we have observed in Poland that more and more parents, because parents are responsible for the vaccination of their children, are not fulfilling this obligation. Children are not vaccinated, which unfortunately causes diseases that we should forget long ago. We as the government introduce, in 2017 we introduced vaccinations against pneumococci, and from next year we introduce free vaccinations against rotaviruses for children after the age of six. We can also see that in recent years the disease of measles has begun to spread. Well, it's just that a lot of parents don't put their kids in this condition. WHO and UNICEF estimates show that the first and second dose against measles in 95% only takes place in 4 European countries, namely Hungary, Portugal, Slovakia and Sweden. We see that unfortunately in Poland, from year to year, this empowerment, especially against measles, is much smaller and smaller. Therefore, I have accepted the Senate initiative with quite a lot of understanding and approval as regards this law, so that in the care of children under 3 years of age, the obligation to have the child admitted to nursery or kindergarten is to have the necessary preventive vaccinations. This is especially important at the moment, when we encourage Poles to vaccinate against the coronavirus. I think it's very important. We are on the eve of the moment when the vaccine will appear physically in Poland. And I hope that this senate initiative will also move Poles to become more and more eager to emerge, just as far as Coronavirus is concerned. Unfortunately, for many years anti-vaccine movements have undermined the value of vaccination in different ways, sometimes completely unlearned. I think this is also happening right now when it comes to vaccination against the coronavirus. So I think that this debate in the Senate should also break through to Poles and show that, however, the only condition for a return to normal, which I think we all miss very much, is that at least 60 The Polish population was vaccinated against the coronavirus. So once again, I thank the senators for the initiative. And I think this bill will be continued in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Beat Małecka-Libera, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u282	Thank you very much. High Izbo, Minister, I have not so much a question as to how much appeal you have to the Minister. Indeed, there is a time at the moment that we must all, with one voice, support vaccination. This is extremely important for our society. But I would like to use this moment and ask the Minister to also start working on changing the vaccination calendar, the mandatory vaccination calendar to verify and adapt it to the introduction of any new vaccinations that should be mandatory and are recommended at the moment and are therefore also paid directly from the pocket of the person who wants to inoculate. It is currently on the list of legislative work of the National Health Programme, its novel, which is to be for the next five years. I think there's going to be a place, as well as financial resources to actually verify... make a modern vaccination calendar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u283	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I sign with two hands so that as many vaccinations as possible are free, so that they are available to my parents. And of course, we're still working on that, as far as possible, of course, and the resources we have, we're expanding this vaccination calendar. I said that from next year, we're about to start a free vaccination against rotaviruses for children under the age of six. But we are also working to make this calendar much richer. I think that our task, too, and the politicians and senators, is to promote this idea of vaccination. Because I think it's very important. And recent years have shown that especially young parents, unfortunately, do not want to vaccinate their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u285	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! We're going to vaccinate ourselves because we're thinking. We're going to vaccinate ourselves because we're responsible. We're going to vaccinate ourselves because we care about our health and our loved ones. We're going to vaccinate ourselves because we appreciate prevention. We'd rather be vaccinated than treated later. We're going to vaccinate ourselves because our health and life, in short, are priceless. Does everyone feel the same way? Unfortunately, no. As the Minister said, there are various groups, as well as lobbyist groups, which undermine not only the value of vaccination, but even the existence of Coronavirus, the existence of a pandemic state. It is not a new process, it is a process that has been going on for some time, but it has increased in recent years, become dangerous, threatens the lives not only of those who avoid vaccination, but also of others. Hence this initiative, the initiative, as Prof. Chybick said, bottom-up, initiated by socialists concerned with various attitudes, which are briefly referred to as low responsibility attitudes. The signatures collected under this project, nearly 100,000, especially in Lower Silesia, indicated the belief that additional criteria should be introduced at the time of admission to the kindergarten and admission to the nursery. It would be good, moreover, to discuss this matter with Senator Czerwiński at the committee meeting, so that this obligation is as broad as possible and perhaps in the next work or in the next initiative, concerning other laws, perhaps also the constitution, it can be formulated. But I want to start with one very important statement, showing a certain fact that's happening right now. This is a legal obligation to inoculate children in certain cases with specific vaccines. He is. The problem is that it is ignored, avoided, little of it, such conduct is carried out on a positive behavior pedestal, although it is definitely not. Therefore, this project aims to achieve 3 objectives at the same time. It is about promoting vaccination and making it clear by us, senators, the upper chamber that we are dealing with the mandatory vaccination. They're not optional, they're mandatory, and parents who don't inoculate their children violate laws, and that's a fact. The second important issue is the powers of local government officials who reported, however, in order to include their powers of heads of units to at least verify the facts regarding not only Polish children, Poles and Poles, but also with regard to frequently accepted children of foreigners who work in Poland, live in Poland, stay here, sometimes have a long rest or treatment process. As far as daycare is concerned, it turned out to be quite simple because it can be formulated with regard to these facilities simply a criterion: you have to bring a certificate, whether you bring a certificate signed by a qualified nurse, a doctor, or show the health book in which the vaccination table is on the penultimate page, and then the director, the director of such an establishment, may refuse to accept this child. That is not enough, there is an obligation to notify the infringement. This is a very important element. In the case of kindergartens we also introduce a very important element of control, i.e. the need to provide a certificate of passing specific vaccinations. Those who are aware, and most of the directors have this knowledge, will draw the right conclusion from this, i.e. lead to a situation in which this violation of law will have to be changed by vaccination, of course under medical supervision. It happens that children who should be vaccinated during the first year of life come to kindergarten in the third or fourth year without these required vaccinations and of course the dose, and the vaccination itself in some cases requires some adjustments, which will be taken into account. What is important in this message? As the Minister of Health said, the most important thing is to bring into law those attitudes that have nothing to do with this compatibility. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these new phenomena that have emerged, in Hungary very strongly, in Portugal very much, in Sweden a little less, in Poland also a little less, do not order us to have some dramatic sharp reviews about the state of things at present, because the empowerment of children is at a good level, although unfortunately it is getting worse. Not only is it getting worse, as I said, it is because of the lack of vaccination that a certain value is made, and it is unconditionally trying to convey doubts, most often having nothing to do with the medical condition, including other groups, which, according to my opinion, should be criminal, and mostly not. Finally, I would like to thank the social initiators and Robert Wagner very warmly and all those who signed this appeal. It was quite a large group with a high degree of responsibility, wishing to participate socially in the process of clearly accepting vaccination obligations, but at the same time opposing all those who practice demagogy and leading to such a situation that the group which undermines the value of vaccinations unfortunately increased in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u287	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u288	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I would very, very much like to thank the initiators of this bill, especially Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, and Senator Alicia Chybicka, those who signed support for this initiative. You have initiated a great thing, a really big thing. I'm a parent of four children, and like every parent, I know the fear of a situation when the temperature of a child in the evening or at night reaches 39 degrees, 39.5 degrees or approaching 40 degrees. Every parent is always in fear. But my generation is not known to fear that it will result in paralysis, paralysis, Heiny-Medin's disease. Why? Because polio vaccine was successfully introduced and introduced in the 1950s and 1960s. This is a great, great achievement of civilization by the fact that a whole group of diseases have been effectively eliminated, at least in Europe and in the Western world. But eventually? Is this a lasting success, a lasting achievement? Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 in Poland the compulsory vaccination refusals were 3.5 thousand, in 2015 16 thousand, last year, only 4 years later, almost 50 thousand. These are already dangerous figures for public health. This is, of course, the result of the so-called movements. Anti-vaccine, which we do not have any illusions about, is the evidence for this, which is fueled both in the United States and in other countries of Europe, but also in Poland by propaganda, especially propaganda on the net, from the outside, from Russia, as part of a large campaign of destabilizing the Western countries, undermining confidence in the institutions of the state, causing confusion. Unfortunately, politicians' statements also contribute to this increase in the number of compulsory vaccination refusals. I'm not gonna give the names of these politicians, I'm just gonna give them their functions, because it's not about trying to keep them from doing it anymore. A fellow Member, both three years ago and now, talked about the anti-vaccine rally in Warsaw: this holiday of freedom would not have been possible without such wonderful people as Mrs Justyna Socha, I would like to see more of us, we must promote it. Deputy Minister of Justice, now MEPs, 3 years ago said: forcing a parent to such a sensitive issue as vaccination is absolutely an abuse of the Polish state, with this abuse we want to fight, coercion to vaccination is discrimination against Polish citizens. The Prime Minister of the Republic, also 3 years ago: They are born convinced that the vaccine can harm the child, but there are also those who are convinced that vaccination will protect against the disease. I can't judge that in substance, I'm not a doctor. We will be wondering how to reconcile these two positions. Finally, unfortunately, the President of the Republic of Poland this year during the election campaign: "I think that vaccinations for Coronavirus should not be mandatory at all. I am not in favour of any compulsory vaccination. Let me be frank: I personally never got the flu because I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, although the indicators of trust in us politicians are low, the words of politicians, especially those who have the highest positions in the country, are important. People listen to them. People are deprived of certain barriers and are more susceptible to propaganda, e.g. anti-vaccine movements or other movements promoting conspiracy theories because of such statements by politicians. Therefore, I warmly thank this side of the room for its cooperation during the work of the committee and for the declaration by Minister Kraska. This initiative really is a big deal. She will clearly state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland, and I hope that the whole parliament, is on the side of science, is on the side of rationality and common sense and is on the side of public health, both the health of Poles as a nation and the health of each of us individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to go from these statements to political parts, especially the latter, to concrete ones, because they are important, because they will be used in practice, but the most important thing I think is that it is your rapporteur, Prof. Chybicka, that I will try to explain what happened to the law, which was not ideal at first, but was certainly going further than what we are considering at the moment. I've got two prints in front of me. The first one is original print No. 196, which we discussed at the committee meeting. The second print is the one that came out of committee, print No. 196 S, which we will now do in plenary. I'm gonna skip all the rules, I'd say, implementation. Meritum is actually two laws that may not be so much a ban as they refer to... One refers to nurserys, children's clubs, etc., i.e. children under the age of 3 and the other refers to kindergartens. As regards crèches, the previous Article. This issue was included in Article 2. 2 of the original text said that in Art. The 11th Children's Care Act under the age of 3 shall be added. 3 as follows: one of the conditions for receiving children is the submission of a certificate that the child has the required preventive vaccination provisions or a certificate of contraindication for vaccination. The condition for the child to be admitted to the nursery, according to the original text, was to be the submission of a certificate, of course also automatically the vaccination of the child, because no one, regardless of the form in which he will issue, if the child is not vaccinated. Short and nomadic: Do you want to put a child in a public nursery? Good. But you're paying attention. The State, because the State is responsible for public crèches That the child should be vaccinated, and only under such conditions can the child be directed to this nursery. What's it like right now? The appropriate content, replacing the content that I quoted, is yes. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1... This is, of course, the same law, the custody of children under the age of 3. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3a in the mouth. 1 after point 6, the following point 6a is inserted:... To understand the content of this point, of course, you need to read the introductory text. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 3a (3) (a) 1 reads: The parent applying to take care of the child in a nursery or a children's club or by a daily guardian shall provide the following data in the form of a declaration or certificate. This concerns the presentation of data in the form of a certificate. There's a whole string of data: name, date of birth, address of the place of residence. One of the points is to be added now point 6a: whether the child has the required protective vaccination or contraindications. Presentation of information. Where is the ban on a child being admitted to a nursery by the director of this public nursery when this information says that the child did not participate in these and in these vaccinations? There's no such prohibition. If there wasn't such a rule in the law, we're not bringing him in. We only give information about whether the child has been vaccinated or not. We're talking about a little baby being taken into day care. There's no ban. Once again, what the original version looks like, in the original, white text: one of the conditions for the adoption of children is the submission of a certificate that the child has the required preventive vaccination or contraindications. That's it, period. Bright lines. And there's no such phrase here, there's no condition. It's an additional, I don't know, imposed on parents a small obligation to provide information on the vaccination of children. And whether the child is vaccinated or not, the head of the nursery or the children's club, of course public, has no right to refuse to accept the child. So where's the state policy here? You've made things worse for the original text. What about kindergarten? Let's leave the nursery... Well, if anyone thinks it's different, prove it to me based on the lyrics. What's it like with kindergartens? In the original text in the law of education in the article. 131 were added after mouth. Paragraph 7 The following 7a and 7b shall be added: Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to find this art. 131. What does he really refer to? That's the article... it's going to take a while, unfortunately, the older the older the less efficient. [[Don't worry, we're slow too...]] I see. The same applies to listeners. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read this article exactly, actually, his, I don't know what to call it. Well, it has 7 paragraphs, they concern the issue of admission to a public kindergarten. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: We do not touch it so that it is clear: to a public kindergarten, a preschool branch in a public primary school or a public school other form of preschool education shall be accepted as candidates resident in the area of the municipality concerned. And that's understandable. Now we add... No, no, come back. The original text states that the criterion for the admission of a candidate to a public kindergarten, a preschool unit at a public school, etc., is the submission of a certificate of possession by a candidate required by mandatory vaccination provisions. Is there a way to block it? Okay, but she's been here before. Now let's take the text that we're talking about, which is print number 196 S. In the same article. 131, but in the mouth. Two that already exists... Its headline is this: if there are more candidates... Only in this one case, not in a case where there are more places than children. No, only when there are more children than places. In the case of more candidates fulfilling the condition referred to in paragraph. 1, i.e. living in a given municipality, in the first stage of the recruitment procedure This is the first choice, in short the following criteria are taken into account. And here are the criteria: family multiplicity, candidate disability, single raising a candidate in the family... Of course it's the baby, the candidate's the baby. Great. This is where the next criterion would be added, which according to this amendment is as follows. The following point 5a is inserted after point 5a: The certification of the applicant's possession of the required preventive vaccination or a certificate of contraindications shall be given:... What does that mean? While there was a blockage in the first case, in the second case that we are now talking about, this is one of the criteria Let's call it that. The stratification, the placement of children on the ranking list of daycare. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] But this is only used when there are fewer places than children. Because if there are more places than children, that paragraph doesn't apply at all. I wish that was clear. This is clearly stated: this applies to more candidates fulfilling the condition, i.e. living in the commune, than the number of vacant seats. What have we come to? We softened the original text. You can do that, of course. The assumptions, which are beautifully described in the explanatory statement, have nothing to do with what we did in the final text, in the text from, let's call it, yellow printing. Worst of all, we actually make the law empty. 'Cause what are we gonna do? It is said that with these maneuvers, these certifications, we will see which children are vaccinated and which are not. We will not introduce the possibility of blocking admission to a kindergarten or nursery of a child who is not vaccinated. Apart from the fact that this is going to be bad for this child, it could end tragically in the case of children who have contraindications that cannot be vaccinated and want to go to nursery and kindergarten. Well, parents want them to walk. That's what these kids are all about. And once you're above a certain level, the epidemic micro-organisms begin. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Why are we doing this? I don't know. The design in the original version actually was After, of course, I'd call it legislative evisceration. It fulfilled the essential function, i.e. gave the opportunity... not even to force, but to encourage the inoculation of children by sanctioning the failure to attend a nursery or a public kindergarten. Well, we were very clear about that. The idea was to have the parents vaccinate the children, i.e. They led them to vaccinations. Unfortunately, in this version, which is now... I don't know what was at the bottom of it. I don't know why we're softening this project, pulling out his teeth. He's really just an information function. Well, we'll find out which children haven't been vaccinated. It could be worse for these kids, it could lead to some, God forbid, ostracism. But that's another matter. Thank you for your patience, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator Czerwinski, you're asking why the text was softened. Well, I also asked in my time at the committee's meeting why the text was softened. Senator Zdrojewski explained this several times, unfortunately. And I remember that situation. I think this case's been to the Court before. I'm not sure, but I think she was. And it's determined that it can't be a barrier condition because it's an educational facility, and, as I say, everyone has the right to... Well, if there's no room, that's fine, but she has the right. And this criterion cannot be created by this barrier. That's it, period. And if the senator says it's no good, then I don't agree, because the parent who wants to save the child for kindergarten brings all the documents. He doesn't know in advance whether these children will be less than places, or whether these children will be more than places. However, he will want to protect himself and bring this certificate, and in order to bring the certificate, he must inoculate. And that's why even if in some cases an uninstalled child is found in a kindergarten, it's gonna be a few cases anyway. And what we're going to achieve is that there's going to be a much greater percentage of the vaccinated children. And let's at least do it right now, then we'll see what the situation looks like, whether we can find any better solutions or not. And rolling this topic over and over again today just doesn't make sense. This bill will certainly, in my opinion, psychologically affect and will certainly result in a much higher percentage of vaccinated children than is currently the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u293	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u294	Thank you very much to Senator Mark Borowski, because he explained two points in a brief and appropriate manner. I'll make sure there's no misunderstandings. We in this law create the obligation to bring a certificate and in daycare, and in kindergarten. All I'm asking is, who's gonna get a certificate that he's a criminal? So he didn't inoculate his baby. Well, we have to be reasonable. It's clearly written in one case and another. In one thing, how do you do it? in the case of daycare, in the second, how it must be done in the case of establishments that are part of the education system. You have to bring a certificate of vaccination for your children, not a certificate of non-implantation. If someone wants to go to the movies, and it's clearly written that you need a ticket, then if someone brings a certificate that they don't have a ticket, they'll go to the movies. Isn't he coming in? We are clearly saying that today local government officials, crèches directors and kindergartens will have the right to expect a certificate on the place of residence, on the various other things mentioned in the Act and vaccination certificates. It's not about non-implantation, it's about vaccination, that's about fulfilling the rules of law that are clearly formulated. And enumeratively listed are vaccines that are mandatory. There's no doubt about it. Mr. Senator said it would be better to be a parasite. I agree, but these amendments were not introduced as a result of a substantive discussion, but as a result of the suggestion made by the Legislative Office, in order not to undermine the effect of this law, so that it did not have an Achilles heel, so as not to accuse us of unconstitutionality. And I therefore call on us to take this step in the right direction and lead us to the situation that we will know, we will have knowledge, we will have information about where this area does not have vaccination. He's gonna show up because his parents are gonna want to come to nursery or kindergarten, and they're not gonna want to show that certificate. They're gonna have to. From this point on, they will be obliged to show a certificate, a book of mandatory vaccinations. I don't think in the short term after these educational processes someone decided to come to nursery or kindergarten and say, "I'm a criminal, I don't vaccinate my children." Because the consequences are obvious. The fact that we're dealing with a crime ends with a report to the D.A.'s office that we're dealing with a crime. That's what's important, and let's stick to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u295	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I'm ordering a recess until 9:30. After the recess, the vote will be held after the session is resumed. Dear Senators, I would also like to inform you that a meeting of the Senior Convention will be held immediately after the announcement of the break. I'm asking you to listen to the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u296	High Senate, the meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee to examine the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 182. A meeting of the Health Commission to consider the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of the announcement of an epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel the senate print No 279 will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. And an announcement. The following meetings of the Legislative Commission will be held in Chambers 176 and 179: 30 minutes after the announcement of the interruptions in the proceedings, the examination of the proposals submitted to the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the events of December That's all the messages. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 28 to 21 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u297	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I will begin with sad news because this morning Senator Maciej Grubski, Senator VII, VIII and IX of the term of office, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on National Defence of the VII and VIII term of office, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure IX of the term of office, died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of a late Senator's colleague. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 11th, 12th and 13th January 2021. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. Of course, it will be primarily a budget meeting, but we already have 15 other projects, so that you can focus traditionally on hard work. Dear Senators, we proceed with the test vote. I ask that any vote be cast to determine the number of senators participating in the vote. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted. [[Voting No 38]] And that's how much she's taking part in the meeting. You're missing the voice of Marshal Blanket, but I hope he'll be at the next vote. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 295. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u298	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At its meeting on 16 December, the Rules of Procedure adopted a unanimous decision on the basis of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, on the cancellation of Senator Włodzimierz Bernacki from the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union; Senator Stanisław Ożog from the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs; Senator Aleksandr Swed from the Committee on Culture and Media. At the same time, on the basis of the same article, the committee unanimously elected Senator Vladimir Bernacki to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee and Senator Alexander Swed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Secretary, Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 98 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 269 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission took a break from yesterday's debate and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal set out in point I, a Roman one, i.e. a motion to reject the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u301	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, the senators Marcin Bosacki, Janusz Pęcherz, Stanisław Gawłowski, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Halina Bieda, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Danuta Jazłowicka, Ewa Matecka, Jerzy Wcisła and Janusz Gromek submitted their conclusions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is something wrong? We'll proceed with the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We therefore proceed to the vote on the motion of the senator group to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 268 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u302	Mr. Marshal, the committee recommends that this law be adopted with one amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u303	Thank you very much. As an applicant, does the senator still wish to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you kindly. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The remote vote is faster today, so we're going faster. 98 senators voted, 46 votes 51 against and one abstention. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment aims to extend the deadline for compliance with the information obligation by the entities indicated in the Act to 28 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Is Senator Gromek voting or not? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Principles of Recognition of Professional Qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the law on amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw. We return to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from that territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and certain other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which they requested the adoption of this law without amendments. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from that territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Doping Control in Sport. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 280 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the act on combating doping in sport. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment. It is in Senate print No 288 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 279 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report to the Health Committee. The committee meeting took place today because during the debate proposals were presented for amendments to the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel. We recommend... [[The voice from the hall:... I have the opposite here...]] Please? [[No, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: To myself...]] I'm sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Commission recommends that the High Senate reject the law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Marek Martynowski still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the Health Committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 49 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 48]] The conclusion was not received by the majority. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Please note that amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10 should be voted on together. These amendments seek to delete provisions providing for the liberalisation of access to the professions of doctors, dentists, paramedics, nurses and midwives by persons who have obtained appropriate qualifications outside the territory of the Member States of the European Union. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ninety-eight senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] Senator with a formal motion, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u306	Mr. Marshal, I ask you to take a 10-minute break on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. [[Voices from the Chamber: But in the course of the vote?]] [[Voice in the Chamber: In the course of the vote?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Only formal proposals on the way or order of voting can be made during the vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u307	Yeah, I'm afraid that's... That's how it is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: For the first time in the history of the Senate...]] [[Voice from the room: What's going on?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Chief Legislator at the Legislative Office at the Senate Office Piotr Magda: Confirmed.]] Well, unfortunately, this proposal can no longer be taken into account during the voting process.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u308	Mr. Marshal, you can't take into account when the Marshal has ordered a vote on a particular matter. However, in a situation where the club wants to think about how it will vote on a specific matter, it can ask for a break. [[Voice from the room: Then we have to finish the point.]] [[Voice from the room: No, not at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u309	Mr. Legislator, please interpret. Go to the podium and give an interpretation of the Senate's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As rightly stated by the Office of the Senate's work, it is not possible to submit such a formal proposal from now on. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u311	Thank you very much. Amendment 3 aims to extend the scope of the amendment to the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections... [[I'm talking about the formal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u312	Can a formal application be made then? [[Voice from the room: Exactly, that's right.]] I am filing a formal motion to terminate the vote. [[Voice from the room:]] [[Voice from the Chamber: It is not possible to stop the vote.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: The vote may be interrupted.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We are in the middle of a vote...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u313	I remind you that the final interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is carried out by the Senate Marshal. I'm in charge of a 10-minute recess right now. The votes held shall not be readmitted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 10 minutes off. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 53 to 22 minutes 02]] Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We continue to vote. Amendment 3 aims to extend the scope of the amendment to the Act on the prevention and eradication of infectious infections and diseases in humans to the issue of the disposal of strategic reserves, as well as to correct an obvious legislative error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 46 votes for, 49 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 7 aims to extend the scope of the Law to amend certain laws in relation to the implementation of eHealth solutions by amending the date of entry into force of the provisions on cross-border prescription. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 47 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 8 aims to extend the scope of the Law to amend the so-called. a covid act to establish a regulation whereby, during the duration of an epidemic or epidemic to an insured person employed in a medical entity during the period of compulsory quarantine, isolation or isolation in domestic conditions resulting from contact with persons suffering from COVID-19 in connection with the performance of obligations arising from employment in that entity, the right to 100% salaries. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 52]] The amendment didn't get the majority. Amendment 11 seeks to amend the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 for, 50 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I declare... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. I will read you paragraph 1a of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, please note: And that's not the case. The Marshal shall put to the vote a motion for rejection of the law and, in the event of non-adoption of the proposal, a proposal for adoption of the law without amendment. Therefore, in accordance with Article. 54 (1a) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the hall: Gentlemen, let's count the votes.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll count, calm down.]] [[Voice from the hall: The night of miracles...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Grant Act for certain entities. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 283 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Grant Act for certain entities. We return to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 289 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee today before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No 246 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on the amendment of the law on the income of local government units and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the income of local government units and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 227 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanka, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u314	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present an additional report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement. The Senate at its 19th sitting today, following a second reading, addressed the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The committees at their joint meeting on 17 December 2020 responded to the proposal submitted in the course of the discussion. The committees supported the proposal contained in the report and asked for its adoption by the Senate together with a uniform draft law amending the Law.The implementing Penal Code and a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 227 S.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u315	Thank you very much. Would the Senator like to speak again? During your second reading, you submitted a legislative proposal to Senator Alexander Pociej. Mr Pociej was also the rapporteur of the committee after first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, there will be votes on the amendment, print No 227 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 227 S, in full with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We are voting on the amendment of Senator Aleksander Pociej. The aim of the amendment is to supplement the provisions on public defenders. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Aleksander Pociy to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 60]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the implementation of the Penal Code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Aleksander Pociy to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings and the law on judicial costs in civil matters. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee today before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 228 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on civil status. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 221 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the results of the committee's work. The Commission has examined the proposals for the draft law amending the law on civil status. There were two amendments concerning the exclusion from the original draft legislation of the passport body and the extension of the vacathio legis from 6 months to 1 year. These amendments were proposed by the senators in principle at the request of the Ministry of Digitalisation. With no votes against, the Commission unanimously supported both amendments and the project as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u317	Thank you very much. During the second reading, you submitted legislative proposals to Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who was also the committee's rapporteur after first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and at the same time to the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted on in the order of the text in print No 221 X, followed by the adoption of the draft No 221 S, in full, by amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 makes the regulation contained in the draft law only applicable to municipalities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 1 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 2 extends the date of entry into force of the proposed regulation to 1 January 2022. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes, 1 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 63]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 64]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the act on civil status records and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act, the Act on social insurance for farmers and the Act on personal income tax. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee today before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No 233 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Richard Bober to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the bill submitted by the committees on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Individual Income Tax Act, as well as the draft resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Social Insurance Fund Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Individual Income Tax Act and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Richard Bober to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on education law, the law on childcare under the age of 3 and the Act on primary health care. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee today before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No. 196 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Children's Welfare Act under the age of 3, the Education Law and the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of December '70. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 245 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Komorowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission at its additional meeting today responded to the proposal submitted by Senator Borusewicz in the course of the discussion. The Commission supported the proposal contained in the compilation and asks for its adoption by the Senate together with a single draft resolution on the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of December '70 in print No 245 S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u319	Thank you very much, senator. Does Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz still want to speak as Senator of the applicant? No, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment presented, print No 245 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 245 S, in full, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Borusewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted against, 97 against, 1 against. [[Voting No 67]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 50th anniversary of December '70. In wishing you a merry Christmas, peace and health, I inform you that the agenda of the 19th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u320	I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Senate Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose content cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jerzy Wcisla will be the first to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I ask you to remain silent and allow the senator to make a statement.]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, at the beginning of December the funds were allocated from the Government Local Investment Fund. The way in which the beneficiaries of this important local government support programme were selected during a difficult time associated with the epidemic caused a wave of outrage from local authorities, which do not understand the principles under which decisions were taken to grant or not to grant financial resources to local governments. I believe that such rules exist because I cannot imagine that more than PLN 4 billion from public funds can be distributed according to the will of officials, ministers or even the Prime Minister, and especially according to the party key. Could it have been that public money was first and foremost received by those local governments whose bounty was derived from the United Right? Sadly, many believe that this is the only criterion that can be seen in the way these funds are distributed. If that was the case, I hope that the Prime Minister can find guilty of such stubbornness of powerful public money. They must be identified and punished. I also ask for the following information, which will allow me to pass on the facts about this incident in my region. I ask for regulations or other documents showing the rules for the allocation of funds from the Government Local Investment Fund. I ask for a list of projects submitted by the local authorities of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship together with the necessary amount of support, evaluation of these projects by the evaluation committee, final decisions and justification of these decisions. I ask for information on the composition of the committee that verified the requests submitted. Prime Minister, let me add that Elbląg, the city from which I come, has been twice humiliated by the decision not to grant funds under the Government Local Investment Fund, firstly, the fact that I did not grant funds, secondly, that the measures Elbląg sought concern the renovation of the street, which in the future is to be part of the ring road, the same ring road which Elbląg's current Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński promised just over a year ago, and he did not keep the word. For this reason, I ask you to inform me in detail of the reasons which have decided that Elbląg has not received the funds for the task on which he has submitted his application. I think the Prime Minister also cares about making the truth public. Prime Minister, I hope that the reasons for these bad and hard decisions were the mistakes of people and the analysis of documents will show it, and that the Prime Minister, informing this, will restore the local authorities' faith that, as you said, We must fight the COVID-19 epidemic together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u322	Thank you very much. Please make a statement by Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'd like to make a statement on the lack of legal basis for national quarantine. It is addressed to the Prime Minister. I'll start by quoting the article. 228 of Chapter XI of the Constitution, which sets out adequate restrictions on freedom taking into account the degree of threat, including territorial, by establishing a specific emergency. It may be a state of emergency or a state of natural disaster. The competence of the Council of Ministers in the event of a natural disaster shall be clearly described and shall not exceed 30 days, in accordance with that basic act. Let me remind you that the announced lockdown is the time between December 28th and January 17th, which is the period within this time frame. It is also worth mentioning the article. 31 and 52 constitutions. In them we have an extremely important emphasis on the importance of guarantees for citizens to move within the borders of the Polish state. This guarantee of freedom in the proposed lockdown is to be radically limited. It is important to guarantee not only freedom of movement, but also not to violate the essence of other freedoms arising from other provisions, including, of course, the Constitution. I am convinced that the announced lockdown may have a substantive justification for the pandemic, but it should be carried out in accordance with the constitution, laws and competences of certain decision-makers in this case primarily the government. I would also like to draw attention and signal that, here in the Senate, we have been demanding for about 10 months the right legal basis for various decisions which result in restrictions on civil liberties. We had situations of justifying other legal solutions primarily by reducing the state of the natural disaster, the impossibility of making corrections concerning e.g. the elections themselves In this case, the presidential election. Today we are in a situation where, in the near future, there are no elections to local government, the Sejm, the Senate or the presidential elections, there is also no pressure to change the constitution, so it can be said that the state of the natural disaster is the only solution in which justification could be found to limit the rights of movement not only within the borders of the Polish State, but also in connection with the establishment of E.g. curfew. I therefore call on the government to provide the right legal basis for decisions which are expected to result in a wide variety of restrictions on civil rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u324	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, In connection with the second distribution of funds from the Government Local Investment Fund, in which Poznań received neither a zloty Although he applied for financial support for 51 projects important for the city, for a total of PLN 589 million, please provide the following information. Why did the city of Poznań not receive any funds from this fund, even though all 51 applications were positively assessed by the Wielkopolska Voivode? What additional criteria and rules for the allocation of funds were followed by competition committees, excluding in full the application of the Poznań authorities, since there was only one official criterion: the amounts of grants for individual local governments were to be based on the ratio of the property and wealth of municipalities and powiats? The answer to these questions is expected by the inhabitants of the capital city of Wielkopolska, who, as a result of the decision of the government and its competition committees, were deprived of the implementation of many important investments for the comfort of life and for the development of the city. Among the notified projects, which will not be implemented or whose implementation will be stopped, are the construction of the Berdychowska footbridge, the replacement of the surface on the street. Warsaw, several bicycle roads, among others. Following ul. Dmowskiego, Koszalinska, Biskupinska and Złotowskiej, Dolna Wilda or continuation at ul. Grunwaldzka, building a school in Strzeszyn, reconstruction of a part of the resistance wall over Warta, modernization of the building and stadium of Warta Poznań club, as well as construction of a specialized hall in the hospital. Ostrich. The money from this fund is to save local governments, be a shield for them to support investment in the times of pandemics, so it is completely incomprehensible that the people of this city, with more than 500,000 inhabitants, are deprived of this grant. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to respond immediately and wherever possible. It's about changing the wrong decision. Sincerely, Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u326	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement from Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, At the beginning of this year, on 6 February, I made a statement addressed to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Prof. Piotr Gliński. In this statement I asked him to intervene effectively in the renovation of the monument of the Insurgent Activity, located in the village of Góra Święta Anna in Opoleszczyzna. Not wanting to repeat the whole argumentation from that text, I just want to say that this monument is a natural, historical place for the upcoming central celebration of the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. Unfortunately, the technical and aesthetic condition of this monument and its surroundings is highly unsatisfactory. It would be a shame for state, regional and local authorities to organise a ceremony on 3 May 2021 if the monument is not renovated before that date. I have described all these facts in this letter to Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. Unfortunately, the answer I received from him in June 2020 did not give much reason for optimism. In addition to information about facts that I knew long ago, there was no attempt to resolve this situation. It has only been pointed out that, I quote: At present, the Management Board of the Shooting District is seeking to obtain funding for the implementation of the project from the general reserve of the state budget. End of quote. It must be clarified that the shooting starost, on behalf of the State Treasury, manages the monument and the monument located next to the amphitheatre. These efforts by the management of the shooting district from April to today did not of course have any effect. The monument as it destroyed, so it destroys further, as I expected, as I emphasized in my letter to Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, the shooting starost belongs to the German minority, and this minority on average depends on the reconstruction of the monument, which praises the heroism of Polish Silesian insurgents in their fight against the Germans. My predictions after six months proved true. Dear Prime Minister, I know about your visit to the Holy Mountain of Anna and under the monument to the Insurgent Action at the end of May this year. Like every Pole, you certainly care, as much as I do, about the centenary anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. So that they can take place in the most historically predisposed place, i.e. in front of the monument on the Holy Mountain. Anna, the state authorities, and not the German and regional authorities dominated by the minority, should bring about its renovation as soon as possible. Time flies fast. There are only a little more than four months left before the ceremony. Prime Minister, I ask you to take an interest in the case and to intervene properly and quickly. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u328	Thank you very much, Senator. Please make a statement from Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also address my statement to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I direct them to him because, after many changes to the Environmental and Water Affairs Act, many ministers are at the disposal of him. The Prime Minister's address is from here. The case concerns Lake Jamno, a coastal lake, which is a freshwater lake, a lake which has been contaminated throughout the whole period of the PRL with municipal sewage flowing from towns around Lake Jamno, including from Koszalin, throughout the years. This lake requires intervention in the part concerning effective protection against municipal waste water discharges, which still flow from various localities around the lake through tributaries. They are also due to agricultural pressures. Ministers who supervise various types of departments Minister of Infrastructure in the part concerning today's water management, Polish Waters Company itself, Minister of Climate and Environment in the part concerning the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor as environmental monitoring or Minister of Agriculture in the part concerning the Nitrates Directive, i.e. agricultural pressure on water condition They really ignore these things. And they require intervention in the part concerning the installation, the construction of water quality monitoring equipment at the lake tributaries, the monitoring of the quality of treated municipal waste water, which are dumped from the surrounding treatment plants. In 2017 the Regional Environmental Inspector informed that any waste water dumped from the waste water treatment plant in the Lift during the summer season did not meet the standards laid down by national law. And let me remind you that in this case we are still dealing with the implementation of several directives; I will focus only on the directives, not on the provisions resulting from the laws. On the one hand, there is a Water Framework Directive which imposes obligations to ensure that water is improved in single parts of water and on the other hand, the Flood Directive, the Water and Sewage Directive or the Nitrates Directive that I have already mentioned. Therefore, I kindly ask the Prime Minister to make it possible for the competent institutions, the competent ministers, to take joint action to reduce, on the one hand, the discharge of pollution resulting from agricultural pressures and the part concerning the municipal economy, i.e. waste water, on the other hand. On the other hand, the aim is to take measures to support investments in the construction of sanitary infrastructure around the lake. On the third hand, the aim is to continue to effectively protect the inhabitants around the lake from the flood risk resulting from the proximity of the Baltic Sea, storms and so-called. Backs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u330	Thank you very much, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Adam Niedzielski, because of an alarming situation due to a huge increase in deaths. The number of deaths in recent weeks is record, the highest in 20 years. In the forty-fourth week of this year 14,000 115 people died, and in the following weeks over 16,000, over 15,000 and over 14,000 people died. In the autumn, we usually meet an increase in the number of diseases, as well as an increase in the number of deaths, at that time some 8 000 deaths per week are estimated. This year we have an apogee, about 16 grand. Assuming that the covid data is true and the weekly incidence of Coronavirus is around 3.5 thousand, I ask what the rest of it is. Most likely this is the cause of untreated minor diseases, chronic diseases, whose growth is avalanche. At the Health Committee meeting, I asked about the health indicators of society, but then the National Health Fund calmed down and presented statistics on the number of tips and hospitalizations. As he said, their number is variable, but it's actually rising and everything is under control. It's under control today that we have an excess of 3,4 000 in terms of the number of deaths per week. Therefore, I am asking the Minister whether this excess of death in October and November is caused by only covid diseases, perhaps by underestimation, poor coding, but the cause is infectious disease, whether it is the result of problems with the health system, which unfortunately has already proven to be inefficient, or by the bad communications that have come to society about people being at home, and the bad instructions given by the National Health Fund, which recommend not performing diagnostic tests and refraining from treatment or treatment of chronic diseases, have led to an increase in the number of deaths. I'm asking the reason. I am also asking why the CSO stopped publishing data on deaths, why we do not have access to knowledge of the real number of tests carried out in individual regions, why the whole situation is really unknown to us. I think that if we cover up data, we don't make real decisions, and if we don't make real decisions, we certainly won't improve the health situation. Proposals recently made on the implementation of research AOS without a limit or screening for 40 - year - olds is not really the solution to this incredibly difficult health situation. Therefore, I expect the Minister of Health to inform urgently about what the government has done to improve the situation so that all people with other diseases, not only infected with the coronavirus, but with other chronic diseases, have access to healthcare, to treatment and we can improve the health rate of society. Today's press conference by the Minister of Health on subsequent restrictions does not give me any optimism, because at this conference I was not presented to the public, not a word was said about the medical solutions offered by the Ministry of Health and the Government. All they said was restrictions. We can't solve this problem with restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u332	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sport reminds us of fair play. When we think about public funding, we are talking about the definition that is granted in accordance with the principle of transparency, objectivity, measurable criteria and clarity of evaluation. The investor needs information about whether he meets the criteria, whether he has a chance to obtain the required score and when he can expect feedback. How is the investment programme of particular importance for sport? Firstly, there are no clear criteria with a score scale. Secondly, there is a lack of a clear timeline on which the assessment is based, because the irregularity of meetings leads to the fact that part one of the information in the BIP appears, where one project was assessed on 2 December, and suddenly on 7 December, part two of the protocol appears, where funding is granted to 23 central centres of sport. Why such a discrepancy in publication? Third, there is no feedback. Fourthly, it is missing how much money is earmarked for a given year. The information says that 157 million are being allocated, but it is also known that contracts already concluded are being continued. And finally, there's no sense of evaluation according to the criteria set out in the fog. We read that proposals will be evaluated e.g. according to the compatibility of the facility's location with the sport potential and the tradition of exercising a given sport in the region, and the funding is received in 95% of the institution for such investments as: reconstruction of the kitchen with the purchase of equipment in COS, purchase of dishwasher equipment along with the adaptation of the room, construction of a gym and sports fields at the high school in Lublin or improvement of the quality of the service of athletes in the COS canteen in Szczyrk and does not receive a multi-disciplinary sports park worth 230 million net, on which the municipality of Sosnowiec makes 2 applications and gets nothing. By translating this into amounts, it looks like this: by giving 20 million to participate in a project worth 230 million, can you imagine a better relationship between the financial efficiency of public funds? The investment, which has the highest level of formal legal preparation as it is in progress and therefore the guarantee of successful spending is certain. How is it with the principle of fair play in an investment programme of particular importance for sport, Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u334	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed, also submitted, to Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers. Before I make this conclusion, a few words of reflection. Since the decision on the next tranche of funding under the Government Local Investment Fund, or rather the publication of this data, I think everything has already been said. They accompanied this and continue to be accompanied by great emotions. First of all, it is an outrage, but also a sense of injustice, although not in regret, but more in the context of a rebellion for manual control of this fund without any attempt to explain and present criteria that affected the selection of projects that received funding. These funds were divided in a rather primitive way, firstly, without rules, and secondly, according to a cynical political plan, and without any hesitation and even a moment of reflection on all the complex, very necessary projects arising from the needs... Exactly, I wanted to say to the self-governments, but since the definition of self-government is very little tangible, I would say that these projects are really based on the needs of people, residents, citizens. And these common needs were not bent over. Self-government is just people and their common needs. And yet, in the design of the Government Local Investment Fund, it was supposed to be a support for local governments, such a self-government anti-crisis shield. Imagine that in my region according to the rulers, according to those who share these funds, the most urgent need in this most difficult time, and also in the time that will come immediately, it turned out to be... Although I absolutely believe that such investments are also needed. Turns out it's a grant... I will stress, because it is also very important that it is the municipality of the uncle, who is a member of Law and Justice. The most urgent investment turned out to be 12 playgrounds. Unfortunately, no projects submitted by the local government of more than sixty thousand cities received funding. These were among others. investments such as building housing for the most deprived inhabitants. These projects got zero gold funding. And I've also come here to think that everything around you is defined by... Whatever you're making, whether it's plans, whether it's investments, or it's funds, it's accompanied by the word "national." That word is ubiquitous in your language. So I have a request for you to start thinking and acting like this, not just calling your actions and doing something completely different. And so, in this context, please stop playing with our everyday lives. Stop juggling our money together. Stop buying them and humiliate them. Stop begging for yours, but our money together. And finally start taking the citizens seriously. Begin truly caring for their dignity, peace, prosperity, and now for their health and life. These are the most important values. These wonderful values are fundamental values for people responsible, ready to sacrifice, and also to take on great challenges. Unfortunately, I am sad to say that your actions, your actions... [[Excuse me, Senator...]] ...never let you join this group. [[Go ahead and finish it.]] Thank you very much. My speech is over. I still have a request to the President of the Council of Ministers to answer my questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u336	It's gonna get on the record. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Of course, yes.)]] Thank you very much. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Thank you very much.]] I ask you to make a statement from Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u337	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. I ask the Minister to clarify the situation in the health care system that some professional groups do not receive allowances for working with people with COVID-19. I received this information from rescuers serving the so-called. Covid ambulances who haven't gotten any extras since the start of the pandemic, while, as they say, dispatchers have these extras. Another group consists of auxiliary and cleaning staff in covid facilities, which maintain clean departments, carry out washing and disinfection in infectious areas, including post-death patients. The next group is maintenance and security personnel, who take care of the technical condition of the equipment, transport oxygen tanks in covid facilities and ensure the safety of the facility, coordinating the movement of sick and reporting e.g. for tests. The Minister's response will be a valuable clue to the heads of the institutions, who will be able to take appropriate steps with the National Health Fund on this basis. If, by my statement, I have pointed to some of the probably many gaps in the already functioning system of premium gratification of people from the front line of the fight against COVID, I ask the Minister to take appropriate legislative action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u338	Thank you very much, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice, Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, and this is a statement on the funds from the Government Local Investment Fund. Minister! With regard to the manner and form of distribution of public funds under the Government Local Investment Fund, which was decided at the beginning of December this year and under which the voivodships distributed the amount of PLN 4 billion 350 million, please answer the following questions. On the basis of which voivodships from some voivodships distributed public funds, placing on official sites of voivodship offices as well as on the so-called politicians. Check... The amount of the grant was accompanied by the Party's logo Law and Justice. Annex: Screenshot with voivodship office side. If these are public funds, is there not a common crime, in accordance with the criminal code, i.e. the appropriation of public property, as defined in the article. 284 of the Penal Code, §1 reads: who owns someone else's movable property or property rights, is punishable by imprisonment up to 3 years old? Given the attached graphics from the official website of the voivodship office, we can conclude that the money going to the communes comes from the funds of the Party of Law and Justice, which distributes these funds as its own. Didn't he commit the crimes of a lubuskie voivode who, without a competition, after paying attention to self-governments who were humble to the PiS and those who didn't put themselves at risk, distributes money as if they were owned by the PiS? Doesn't that fill in the signs of crime? Does the voivode give away that money from her own private or party money, PiS money? If from the public register, our joint is giving away something as its own, see: logo on checks This means that those responsible for these measures have unlawfully taken over other people's property. Is that a crime within the meaning of the Penal Code? And if not, will all the other parties in power in the future be able to distribute public funds and sign them as the logo of their party? Will the public prosecutor instigate criminal proceedings against the voivodeship, who has taken over other people's public property with public money like party money? All political parties must account for the money they receive under subsidies from the state budget. Political parties may not use for promotion, conduct of business or promotional campaign of a party of funds derived from crime, illegally misappropriated or from any sources other than official ones accounted for in the report. Does the conduct of a political party with public resources as its own, which gives the impression of their abuse, not meet the definition of crime? And if so, shouldn't such a party be deprived of subsidies, decommitted and deleted from the register of political parties? To sum up, I ask: will the Minister take legal action against a party which is illegally using public funds for its party purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u340	Thank you very much, Senator. You will be the last to make your statement to Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm also talking about the local investment fund. The party's a country, the country's a party. This is another example of centralising power, taking actions that are incompatible with the Constitution, with the principle of decentralisation. I would like to address the questions to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Why was none of the 37 Inowroclaw proposals in this programme qualified? Why such an assessment of the conclusions of the city of Inowroclaw? Does the political colors have a parking lot for the tourist traffic of the spa town? Does the political colors have a gym on Błonie's estate? Does the political tone of the indoor pool have a modernization? What was wrong with young people who would like to benefit from a modernized sports hall or cultural people who would like to benefit from a modern city theater? What was the fault of locals like Rąbin who wanted to send their children to school with a gymnasium? What did the people of Mątew or Szymborz do? This kind of government action, central action, it's gonna hurt the PiS itself. I'm sure of it. I do not recall, from 30 years of functioning of the state, such a breakdown of central funds. In our governments, it was unthinkable to follow the political criteria of this hand. And here this political cut is very clear. In the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, in my district, funds will not be given to municipalities such as Barcin, such as Inowroclaw, as Strzelno, as Mogilno, as the Mogile district That is, these towns, those places that the locals did not give the mandate to the local government of PiS. This is a centralist action, an unworthy action and definitely despicable action. This is not the way to treat residents, it is not the way to take revenge on residents who do not vote for the PiS. This is centralism, lack of self-government, lack of respect not only for the EU treaties, but also for the Constitution and fundamental principles of supporting local communities, regardless of shared political views. But the PiS will be settled in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-senat-19-2.u342	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the nineteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 19th Senate of the Republic of Poland is closed for the 10th term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 23 minutes 13]]
