ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u1	Resume session. And adjourn until 10:30. For the record, due to the extension of the committee's deliberations upstairs. I appeal to both clubs to look for consensus, because there won't be an extension. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 01 to 10 minutes 32]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! According to yesterday's announcement, we will begin today's proceedings by getting acquainted with information about the state of the Polish steel industry. This is item eight of the agenda. The second, third and fourth points will then be considered. After point four, which is the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, the Senate will return to the examination of point one. We will then proceed with the examination of the fifth paragraph: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. I would also like to remind you that after reading the information about the state of the Polish steel industry in the case of the preparation of the relevant reports of the Senate committees, there will be a follow-up to the agenda on the second reading of draft resolutions, which are being processed, about the Australian people, etc. These resolutions will be announced earlier by the Senate on the third day of the session, on which there will be a discussion about the Polish Science Day and the elections to... Looks like an election to the KRS. The Senators are here. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: information from the Prime Minister about the state of Polish steel industry with particular regard to the situation in the ArcelorMittal branch in Kraków, customs policy and government plans to stop the collapse of the industry in Poland. The text of the information is provided in print No 45. I would like to welcome Mr Krzysztof Mazur, present at the meeting of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information. Let me remind you that there is no vote on the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In connection with the request of the High Chamber to the President of the Council of Ministers for information on the situation of the Polish steel industry, I would like to present some key information, a summary of the material which has been given to you. First of all, you can ask yourself how ArcelorMittal decided to put out the big oven. This decision consisted of three factors which were global in nature. The first is the reduction of orders in the automotive industry, in the automotive industry. This is the industry that uses ArcelorMittal products. According to the information we have, last year's orders for this industry decreased by 20%, which affected the economic performance of the steelworks. The second factor is the issue of trade war between the US and China. As you know, in March 2018, Donald Trump introduced 25% duties on steel products and for aluminium products of 10%. Part of the production from outside the European Union, which would go to the United States, has come to us as a result of the introduction of these duties. This has automatically affected the performance of the entire steel industry in the European Union. As a result of the trade war between the US and China, the performance of the whole steel industry in 2019 in the European Union decreased by 4%. This also applies to Poland. The third issue that has affected the deterioration of the situation of ArcelorMittal is the issue of an unfavorable energy mix in Poland. We know that today this is a systemic problem for the whole energy-intensive industry. I will provide such basic information as to how much climate policy issues affect energy prices. The average emission price increased by more than 460% from mid-2017 until the end of 2019. 460% It's a huge increase. This naturally also translated into energy prices in Poland because our energy is still based mainly on coal energy. Between December 2017 and December 2019 wholesale energy prices in Poland, electricity prices increased from PLN 177 to PLN 242. This had a huge impact on the economic effects not only of ArcelorMittal, but of all other steelworks in Poland. Let me remind you that, as far as electric mills are concerned, the cost of electricity represents approximately 40% of the cost of production. The increase in CO2 charges led to an increase in energy prices and energy prices influenced the economic effect of ArcelorMittal. I might add, so that you know the context, too. In fact, energy prices in Poland are becoming less favourable and less competitive in neighbouring countries due to climate policy. In Poland the wholesale price of energy is 19% higher than in Germany, by 20% higher than in the Czech Republic and 16% higher higher than in Slovakia. All this shows what challenges the entire energy-intensive industry in Poland faces today. What's the conclusion? The conclusion is that the kiln has been extinguished by 3 global circumstances, on the one hand, slowing down the global car market, on the other hand, the customs war between China and the United States, on the other hand, the issue of the European Union's climate policy. This does not mean, of course, that the Polish government does not care that it is not the subject of our interest. On the contrary, we believe that the future of the steel industry is of great importance. And I would now like to refer to you why this is so. Actually, the entire steel sector in Poland is privatized today, primarily in the hands of global American, Indian or Spanish companies. Nevertheless, we want to introduce a policy that will create the best conditions for this steel industry to remain in Poland. Why is this our strategy? You could say And that's what some people say. In view of this climate policy that I have been talking about, there is really no future for the steel industry and energy-intensive industries in Europe. And here we have a few arguments for the fact that this is wrong thinking. The first argument is that if we want to focus on reindustrialisation, and this is part of the Responsible Development Strategy. Without steel, such reindustrialisation is impossible. Steel is needed to build bridges, develop residential buildings, build highways, build wind farms. Therefore, there is no reindustrialisation without a strong steel industry. History does not know cases where the economy would have a strong industry without the steel industry. That's an economic argument. There is also an environmental argument. Some may argue that, after all, it is not worth having a steelworks in Europe in view of such a climate policy and that we should create such conditions that they are all gradually transferred to another part of the world. But this is an argument that is so wrong that, after all, the steel mills that will operate under lower environmental standards, producing steel in China or India, will not actually support the Union's climate policy globally. On the contrary, this will lead to exactly the opposite effects than those we want to achieve. So not only in a pragmatic, economic perspective, but also for, say, environmentalists who would like to look first and foremost at the steel industry through the prism of climate policy, it is more profitable Because of long-term goals, I'm going to say high-fly, on the scale of the planet. In order for the steel industry to be developed according to higher Union standards and not to lower standards outside the European Union. These are the arguments that make us as a government Despite the fact that, as I said, the situation of ArcelorMittal was affected by global trends, and despite the fact that today it is simply up to global companies to decide how production will be developed in specific steelworks We want to be in dialogue with this industry and we want to pursue a policy within which the steel industry in Poland will exist, only that it will be more climate neutral, in line with the policy of the European Union. And now we have to answer the question of what to do with ArcelorMittal, what to do at all internal level with the whole steel industry, and finally what to do at European Union level. That's three more points, and that's where I'm gonna finish my information. As far as ArcelorMittal is concerned, the government's proposal is primarily to remain calm. Situation related to the extinction of the blast furnace And that's exactly what's happening today. It has already taken place between 2010 and 2011. Then ArcelorMittal temporarily extinguished the furnace and then restarted it when the economy improved. We're counting on it to happen this time. Some rumors are that maybe in the 3rd quarter of 2020, a really big furnace in New Huta will be launched. This is, of course, a short-term strategy. But there is also a long-term strategy. And here we should definitely apply a policy to ArcelorMittal to encourage them, firstly, to create increasingly high-margin products, and secondly to introduce innovations that lead to their production being as low as possible to the climate. And indeed, as we will look at how much between 2004 and 2019 ArcelorMittal received from public money for these purposes, for research and development purposes, we will see that this is the amount of PLN 373 million 475 thousand 907. This shows that ArcelorMittal invests in innovation. Government agencies such as the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the National Centre for Research and Development, the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, these are the agencies from which this amount went to change in the steel industry I mentioned earlier. This is, of course, a matter directly dependent on this company. You are also asking what is the government's strategy towards the whole steel sector, and I would even say: energy-intensive industries. And here we can list a lot of activities. The details are known to you because they were also examined in the Senate and are in these materials. Allow me to present them very briefly. Then the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology On 4 October 2018, the Ministry of Development established the Energy-Intensive Industries Team. We have invited representatives of all industries to do so so so as to have such continuous cooperation in the drafting of legislative projects. The effect of this team is impressive. The Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers was presented so-called. package for small industrial centres, which has been developed by this committee, and among others. as a result, a change in the parameters entitling the application of the reduced rate of the transitional fee has been made. The notification process in the European Commission on the possibility for industrial customers to apply reduced capacity charges is underway. These are the concrete effects of this team's work. In addition, we have had a number of legislative proposals in the last four years. I will only mention them in password, they are described in more detail in the materials. The Energy Efficiency Act was amended in May 2016. In July 2019 the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors was adopted. It envisages that in 2020 and 2021 PLN 890 million will be transferred to this sector each time as compensation because this climate policy brings up electricity prices, and this in turn makes this industry more and more difficult. Another law is the Act of December 2017 on the Capacity Market, which contains a system of reductions in the costs of energy-intensive companies in connection with capacity charges. The next act is the Renewable Energy Act of July 2019. If we want to change this energy mix, that's what I'm talking about. We need the development of RES to move away from such a large percentage in this mix as carbon energy. We hope that this law is already seeing this in the program, for example, my currents are accelerating investment in RES. Another law is the Act of 22 November 2018 on Vocational Education. The aim is to increase the prestige of vocational training for energy-intensive sectors. Finally, the Innoval sector programme, announced in 2015, by the NCBiR, in which research and development activities can be carried out. These are all actions we've already taken. I would like to conclude this thread of internal actions that we can take towards energy-intensive industries once again, that if Poland's goal is really to re-industralize, we need the steel industry, the steel industry in Poland, and thus a very consistent policy related to the energy mix, we need less and less energy based on coal in this mix. It may seem paradoxical to those who are not engaged in the economy, because the steel industry is far from what is happening in energy and coal energy, but these 2 mechanisms are directly linked. So if, in the context of the European Union's climate policy, we want to preserve the steel industry, we need very intensive work to ensure that CO2 emissions are as low as possible in Poland, because this will make the price of electricity competitive. And finally, to conclude this internal thread, I want to bring up a thread that may also seem non-intuitive. It seems to us, as we look at examples of France, Switzerland and other countries of the West, that it is also important that the steel industry gets an impulse from us to produce increasingly high-grade products, i.e. class C steel or higher. One of the effects of such a creation of demand for such needs... It's the construction industry. We will now, during this term of office, take up legislative work In order to ensure that the standards for the use of Class C steel are introduced as applicable in the construction sector. This will force Polish steel mills to produce more high-margin steel, which will translate into their better economic result. The last thread I have announced is a thread of the European Union. And this, in my opinion, is also very important from the perspective of strategic thinking about development. The Senate as a Chamber of Reflection is certainly interested in such reflection and I would therefore like to say how the Ministry of Development and the Polish Government approach these issues. Climate policy, climate neutrality by 2050, very ambitious, proposed by the European Union today, as I have shown on a concrete example of ArcelorMittal or on a concrete example of the steel industry, is a huge challenge. And there is a serious danger that, with the introduction of this industrial policy, the competitiveness of European industry, not of Poland, but of European industry, will be low enough that further industrial plants will gradually go beyond Europe. The effect will be that Europe can be an excellent place to live Some say: a museum, some say: a place where it's great to see monuments But there will be no industry here because such high climate standards can lead to the fact that this industry will not be competitive with industry in the world. A multi-option policy should be considered here. And what I would like to draw attention to is what we have done and what our philosophy of action is as the Ministry of Development. First of all, we supported the so-called. tariff quotas. It sounds technically, but that was the result of this customs war between China and the United States. The European Commission, also with the active participation of Poland, has led to the creation of the so-called. tariff quotas. This is because all the steel that came to Europe between 2015 and 2017 was taken together and all that was above that amount was subject to a 25% duty. This is one of the elements of this policy, which is to ensure that someone who produces cheaper steel outside Europe, but very harmful to the climate, pays a price in the form of these duties. This is a time mechanism, it is until 30 June 2021, but this is one of the results of this reflection on how to introduce regulations that will defend industry in Europe despite the fact that we want to move towards climate neutrality. The second important element on which work is underway is the so-called "new President of the European Commission." border tax, otherwise called carbon levy, with English border carbon tax. This is a tax that is now aimed at a systemic solution to this problem that I was talking about. This is based on the assumption that, since certain products are produced somewhere in the world without paying attention to the climate and thus reaching a lower price, at a time when such products will be sold to the European market, carbon tax should be paid to equalise the chances of those producing more ecologically. This is, of course, controversial and we can discuss the long-term effects of this type of tax on the economy. However, we, as the Ministry of Development, are actively involved in the work on this tax because we believe that some kind of mechanism related to equalising the ecological, pro-climate opportunities of Europe and e.g. with much less of this kind of Far East goals in its priorities, it must be introduced, otherwise we will simply lose. Another important action in which the Ministry of Development is involved is to encourage our European partners to introduce regulations allowing the steel industry, but also energy-intensive industries, to support innovation. Why is this important? That's why it's important that some people can say: since it doesn't pay marketly, we pay so much for electricity, let's close it, but nobody thinks about alternative costs. And closing the plant means rehabilitating her territory. In the case of Krakow no one knows how much this option would cost very negative, i.e. shutting down the steelworks at all, how much it would cost to rehabilitate this area, because it is not really known for its environmental condition. Some say that it is necessary to rehabilitate the area in such a way that another greener industry could be there so that something was invested and a factory was built there; I am no longer talking about the use of this area for housing purposes. This shows that really, you can say, it doesn't pay us marketly, but even if we close all the mills in Europe, we're going to have a huge problem with what we're going to do with these areas, how to rehabilitate them, because these are huge costs. Therefore, another demand, apart from this protectionist demand, which shows the differences between China and Poland, is also the demand for investment in research and development in the steel industry. And here on the one hand is the IPCEI mechanism. This is the mechanism that today is the European Commission's flagship project. He is aiming to invest really large resources in those sectors that are key sectors from the perspective of Europe's future. Let me remind you that we as Poland are in IPCEI on batteries, and we would also like to see IPCEI on the specific use of hydrogen in the steel industry. The idea is to ensure that the steel industry is zero-carbon and does not have a negative impact on the climate. Finally, what is always the subject of major discussions, namely the issue of European measures. There is a scheme of state aid within the coal regions in transition, i.e. those regions that are moving away from coal. It seems that Poland should be and is very active in ensuring that this mechanism in relation to Małopolska, in relation to Silesia, and also in relation to other regions, is used to invest in technologies that allow to achieve the lowest possible CO2 emissions in this energy mix. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, so much reflection on my part. I hope that was a slightly broader comment on the more detailed information that you have in the document. Finally, I would also like to reflect on this, not only at this meeting, but more broadly. What is happening today towards the European Union's climate policy, neutrality by 2050, has a huge economic impact, has a huge impact on energy, has a huge impact on electricity prices. This should be the subject of our really profound reflection today, above all how Poland, with its coal-based industry and energy tradition, should find itself in this, as it should be in the face of this policy, so as not to lose its global competitiveness. This is the intention of the Ministry of Development, and this is the intention of the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf I presented the information that you requested. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u3	Thank you, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister a question? Senator Bogdan Klich. Minister, I would ask you to stay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u4	No, no, I'm asking you from here to see each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have requested that this item be placed on the agenda for two reasons. Firstly, because the situation in Krakow, where I come from and which is my constituency, is a very difficult situation, above all socially, due to the layoffs of workers who have so far worked with a large furnace and steelworks, a large extinguished furnace and steel plants which stopped production; and secondly, due to the crisis in the entire steel industry in Poland. That is why I thank you very much for having taken this subject into account. I think this is a subject that interests all senators, as you can see. The Minister spoke above all about three challenges and threats of a global nature and the actions that the government has taken. He mentioned, and yes, that one of the main problems is the rise in electricity prices, but quite shamefully slipped over this topic, which in this House was discussed several times a year ago when we talked about the fact that the increase in electricity prices could threaten Polish entrepreneurs. And that's one of the reasons why production in Nowa Huta was extinguished. Well, I would like to ask the Minister how it happened and how it is happening that in Poland at the moment there are record high electricity prices, that these prices in Poland are almost twice as high as in Germany, despite the mechanism of compensation introduced, and that these prices really decide that not only in ArcelorMittal in Krakow, but also in other steelworks in Poland, except maybe in the steelworks in Dąbrowa Górnicza, the only profitable plant, is at the moment a serious crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u6	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u7	As far as employment is concerned, because that's where the senator started, it's always difficult, of course, to change the subject. But if we look at the numbers today, I'm sorry, maybe I'll start with something else. Mr. Senator was kind to use the term "sunny." I was trying to tell you that today's big stove in Nowa Huta isn't extinguished. It is extinguished hot in the sense that it can be started at any time. So this isn't the final decision of ArcelorMittal, like I said. They're in conversations... I am not authorized to give a specific perspective here, but in conversations with ArcelorMittal there is still this perspective of the third and fourth quarters in which this furnace can be launched. Because it is hot out, this will not result in the need to repair this furnace, which would be necessary if it was cooled out. Now about the employment issue. Today ArcelorMittal in Nowa Huta employs 900 people, some say 1,000 people. This is of course a large professional group, but the situation of these people in the labour market, from the perspective of the labour market is not fatal in so far as from the very ArtelorMittal... First of all, even in the case of kiln extinction, the steel activities are still carried out in Nowa Huta. It simply works in such a way that the weak, i.e. such semi-finished products produced in the steelworks in Dąbrowa Górnicza, are transported to Nowa Huta and there in the mill further work is done. Of course, for a more prestigious and more economical steelworks it is if a large furnace is in place. But putting out this furnace doesn't mean there's no production in New Huta today. So this is another thread. Of course, employees, 1 000 employees, if there is to be any reduction, get first an offer from ArcelorMittal to work in Dąbrowa Górnicza. It's all about commuting, possible moving, but that's what ArcelorMittal's making them. Finally, the issue is that today we have an employee market and it seems that there is enough employment area in the industry in Krakow that these people could also get a job offer in other sectors. This is a whole picture. The most we would like, and this is our priority, that the operation of the great furnace be reactivated, so that these people, these 1 000 people, do not have to work in other industries or in Dąbrowa Górnicza, only there... Of course, without going into details, I will say that there is still a question related to the retirement age of some workers, this is simply a complicated human situation. But the point of the senator's question was where it came from, not another situation in terms of electricity prices. All the regulations I've called in. Five of these laws, from 2017 to 2019, were dedicated to this particular problem in order to prepare in advance such regulations as will allow for compensation, will allow for allowances related to power charges. It was an initiative of the Ministry of Development, so that we are not surprised by this problem, we came up with these initiatives. Finally, the most honest answer is that we are dealing with a historical past related to the nature of Polish coal-based energy, and the fact that the European Union's climate policy today does not allow these increases in energy prices to be avoided effectively. That's the answer to the senator's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u8	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u9	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, it'll be a little longer than a minute, 'cause I'm from New Huta, and these are my constituents. And I've been involved with the New Huta since Sendzimir's steelworks went through restructuring and from 30,000 employees went into employment with 4,000. And then we were preparing cover programs, as well as workshops for employees to disrupt them, so... Minister, I know that you will be with Minister Emilewicz in Krakow tomorrow. And that's good news. Senator Klich and I are also invited, but since there are votes, we will not be there, but we will be represented by our employees. And now, Minister... We accept this information with understanding, only we need to remember of one basic thing, i.e. That people are behind all this. Right? Krakow as a city... We take different protective measures for employees. You've responded now, too, and thank you... You'll be handing this information over to the steel mills who will meet at the city council tomorrow. I'm just gonna ask for an answer... There is still a problem of daughter companies that are involved in cooperation with the steelworks. We talked about this problem with trade unions, because we, Members and Senators from Krakow, come to these meetings. Why don't you answer the situation of the daughters' companies? And in this case, is the government taking any kind of protective action involving what our city is doing? Minister, I have informed you that I will ask you a precise question. It is known that I am not a specialist, but a union and employees, as well as the president of the city, asked for an answer to the question... I'll read them. Okay? This is what the government intends to do with the implementation of the so-called. carbon footprint, which is to charge the price of imports of products costs of use in the production of these coal products? Is that exactly what I'm saying, Minister, or... I have that question written like that. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u10	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u11	The first question concerned the issue of daughter companies. According to the estimates we have, this is a matter of Three thousand employees. Yes. It is also a matter of the fact that ArcelorMittal is an important partner for many of them, but not the only one. According to our analysis, in the current form, after the kiln has been extinguished, these companies continue to... Putting out the hot stove does not mean the automatic liquidation of these companies, they continue to function, they also look for other customers. So that doesn't mean, if you could say so publicistically, that when you put out the big furnace, those 4,000 people wouldn't have a job. That's not true. Entrepreneurship is that companies adapt to changing circumstances, seek other subcontractors, other counterparties, and thus adapt to market developments. As to the question of carbon footprint, I will say that for the moment there is no majority in the European Union... Even the Germans do not agree to this policy. So that is the question about this broad discussion in the European Union, which I spoke about at the very end and which is going through my entire speech. To give the context... I was talking about the energy prices in Germany being 19%. higher than in Poland... Lower, lower. Lower, sorry. Lower, of course. It's obviously a slip of the tongue. I mean, they're lower than in Poland. Kleina's boiled. Well, I've boiled... But you don't have to be nervous, it's a slip. A slip of the tongue. I said it correctly before. That was the intention. Now they're 25%... Wait, because important things are... You're welcome, Minister. And I'm gonna say it again in a nutshell. I once asked experts at the Ministry how this is possible, not only in the context of the energy system and our carbon dependence. In addition to this aspect, there is the second aspect that experts spoke about, i.e. the fact that in Germany it is accepted that to lower prices in industry are paid by people, and with us in some way it is the other way around, i.e.. industry bears higher energy costs compared to individual customers. This also shows what is the specificity, what are the priorities in each country, how different it is to think about these issues. There's another topic I'd like to talk about. Steel production in Germany is five times higher than in Poland. This also shows that Germany, on the one hand, is in the avant-garde of change in terms of climate policy, the public in Germany is convinced that this is a good direction for the European Union, and on the other hand they understand the context I was talking about, the context of the steel industry, i.e. that steelworks should be here, in place, in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u12	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Kazimierz Klein should go there... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, take it easy, you're here. Don't argue... You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Because the protest of the workers of this steelworks ended with petitioning the Małopolska Voivodeship. I read that petition. There was a statement that the government had made a promise that this would not be extinguished. Would you mind referring to this motive and to my question, saying, were there really such promises from the government, and explaining the circumstances of this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u14	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u15	As you know, I have been undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development since 5 December 2019. This case concerns far earlier cases which took place, and therefore I did not participate and I do not know the details of those negotiations. In preparing to talk to you, I received such information that during the talks with ArcelorMittal, probably dated to the beginning of 2019, it was said that there were problems related to these 3 trends that I had mentioned earlier in the car market crisis, with new tariffs and with trade wars between China and the United States, but they would not lead to the kiln being extinguished. However, it turned out that the situation was so serious that a different decision was taken. That's the information I received. I cannot say more about this because I did not participate in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u16	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In your speech, you said the main reason Of course, there are more reasons for this. The difficult situation of the steel sector and other industries, including energy-intensive ones, are electricity prices. And here you pointed out that the wholesale price of electricity in Germany for entrepreneurs is lower than in Poland. Right? It seems to me that this is a crucial issue, in general, concerning all the other economic problems that we have right now, and we will be able to have in our homeland in the coming months. Yesterday, I do not know whether you have drawn attention to the issue of waste. Waste collection prices in a huge number of municipalities increased by 100% or even more than 100% versus last year. The Minister's gotten over it a little bit. He said, "That's the problem." that or maybe another community. Today, the Minister talks about the steel industry and its competitiveness is falling due to energy prices. I would like to say more about this in my speech, and now I would like to ask the Minister what the government is doing to stabilise the price of electricity, especially for entrepreneurs, and what action it is taking to lower prices, especially transmission prices, so that the price of electricity is indeed competitive on the Polish market, so that it does not force price increases, in practice for the final consumer, that is, each of us. This is a key issue. Energy companies or major producers are in most companies of the State Treasury. Do you control the price structure and overall the costs of these companies? The idea is to make them really slow down, put out the rise in these prices. You're slightly going on about the fact that 7 or some laws have been adopted in the last 2 years and the result is an increase in electricity prices. You can't do that. So once again, what is the government doing to reduce the rise in electricity prices? This is going to be a key issue this year, a key issue for the economy as a whole. There's no such thing... The Lord speaks lightly: a thousand people, Krakow is cheap, will absorb them if they lose their jobs. A week ago, the Minister of the other industry said that in Słupsk the market will absorb 300 people from the decommissioned maritime office. What kind of politics is that? It's just me and a lot of other people, I think... We don't agree to that. We ask: what are the actions of the government? It's not like it's all coming from something, something from an EU policy. After all, Germany also accepts EU climate policy What's going on? They're in the pointer or something, even... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u18	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u19	If you don't mind, I'll say one more thing about the previous thread. I'd like it to sound strong in the context of the government's promise that there will be no extinguished large furnace. It is simply necessary to say this simply: the decision of a private company is always a decision of a private company. So the government cannot take on a promise about the strategy of a private company. This is the decision of ArcelorMittal. It was ArcelorMittal's decision. Therefore, the government's responsibility for the decision made by a private entity is, in my view, too far-reaching usurpation and desire to think of government as omnipotent. And the question you've asked now is that I haven't been through a thousand people lightly. I said that the steel industry is crucial from the perspective of reindustrialization of Poland. I said that the European Union needs energy-intensive industries. I told you how difficult it would be to rehabilitate every steel site, not just in Nowa Huta. And I said that this is our common goal in the European Union to keep the mills going. So that telling me that with a light hand... That's not true. Of course, I also said that today we have an employee market. I think the senator agrees with that. And as for the question of being... I have talked about the many actions that have been taken in the legislative context. I understand that the senator has data indicating that these actions have not had any effect. In our opinion, the Ministry of Development, but also the government, they have had the expected effect. However, prices have increased, which shows the scale of the challenges we face. If you're able to provide us with evidence that the five laws I mentioned didn't lead to this price being less than it could be, then we'd be happy to accept criticism. But according to the knowledge I have, it's exactly the opposite. And now your question is whether to say that this is far enough because, of course, we want these prices not to increase at all. That's actually a question. You have to say it to yourself. Whether State Treasury companies are able to reduce revenues from network charges quickly, reduce these network charges. Because it's really what we're talking about. So you're really asking us if, in order to protect electricity prices at some level, we're ready to add to the Treasury companies, which are supposed to give up what is their main source of income today. And the main source of revenue for energy companies is the issue of network charges. And they would have to be abandoned if we wanted to absorb these changes in the system. That's the deal. I'm not authorized to... nor do I represent the Ministry of State Assets, which has direct supervision of companies today. If this case is And you're right. I propose that we organise a separate debate on electricity prices. Then, I think, Minister Sasin or someone posted by him should be standing next to me, because this is simply a matter directly related to the financial balance sheets of the power companies involved in the supply of electricity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u20	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, Mr Minister, I would like to refer to your reflection, which you expressed in your introductory speech, namely that we should reflect on our policy in terms of the European Union's climate policy and de facto the world as a whole. To be honest, we, as parliamentarians, should be more in expectation of a proposal, a position, a government agenda in this area. It shouldn't be that the government is expecting And that's how I understood what you said. We're gonna be the ones doing this. That is why, in parliamentary democracy, Parliament calls on the government to solve these problems. That's one thing. So I would like to know what country, as a government, you have proposals and plans in this area. Besides, I would like not only to hear the Minister's statement that the price of electricity has an impact on the issue we are talking about today, but to find out what kind of solutions you are proposing, which would be these cost factors in the Polish steel industry. But it's not just that. They've been lowering. That's your job, isn't it? And that's what we're asking you, and not the other way around, we're not asking you to tell us the facts we know about. There is also a question that I would like to ask: what is the structure of electricity imports to Poland today? 'Cause since you're invoking I believe that this is not the basic and certainly not the sole reason for a certain crisis in Polish steel industry. For electricity, I would like to know what the structure of not only production but also imports looks like. And first of all, I would like to know what exactly are the reasons why you beat records in the import of electricity to Poland. Such a great import of electricity has never been before. A country that is Europe's sixth economic power, a country that you want to show as an economic power, not even Europe, but the world... You're saying that we're in the world's top 20 economic powers, that we should be in the G20, and we're not self-sufficient energy. That's why the question is, what kind of policy do you have in the first place... We're talking about the steel industry. Provocation. ...the future of energy, especially electricity. Because if the one we hear from the Prime Minister, the ministers and the President, it will only be worse in Poland, not better. I'll come back now... Economic growth is better so far and is systematic. Everyone says it's better, not the Platform. ...the topic of today's debate, namely the steel industry. I'd like to know, by the way... One minute. ...what the structure of steel imports into Poland looks like. And is it true that steel imports from the Russian Federation are growing dramatically? We're breaking records on imports of coal from the Russian Federation... It's information about the steel industry, isn't it? ...and now it turns out they were also from the Russian Federation. Let's skip Russia. And what does it look like in the context of your claim that you are building economic and energy sovereignty of Poland, first of all independence from the Russian Federation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u22	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. I remind you of the time limits and ask you to follow them because these questions are supposed to last 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that in parliamentary democracy, the government is appointed by Parliament, by the Sejm, and the direct relationship between parliament and government is simply good practice. So that I speak to you as leaders of public opinion, political leaders. It seems to me that today we face such challenges, Senator, for which it cannot be the decision of one or another minister. This must be a joint discussion in which Members and Senators and the public will take part. Everyone has to argue. And I don't even have to encourage you to do that, because since you invited me, I understand that both sides have exactly the same intentions. We should be discussing this. If you're saying that the government doesn't have a strategy that an invitation to talk means no idea, then I'd like to tell the senator that this is a profoundly false thesis, because in the areas that you're asking about, and which are really going beyond the horizon of this discussion... I would also like to draw attention to this, because I came to talk to you first and foremost about the issue of metallurgy... Yeah, yeah, but... But since you ask, I would like to say that there is a strategy of neutrality, there is a national climate plan. I would ask the Senate to take note of these documents, invite the relevant ministers who worked on these documents. They'll probably be able to give you even more details about these documents. Those documents are. Our conversation doesn't mean there's no strategy. You're asking for specific data on electricity imports. Well, we import power from Sweden, Lithuania and Germany at the top of 3 GW, roughly evenly. The mechanism is that imports are due to the price ratio. We import, as it is more expensive in Poland, export, how cheaper it is. Is that a lot or a little? I will leave this to you to discuss. Those are the facts. Finally, maybe one more thing. There was often a thread here related to the Germans, the issue of sovereignty. Germany estimates that approximately EUR 30 billion will be added to electricity prices. And there is a question that we all have to ask ourselves as the political elite of the state: is EUR 30 billion a sum that we are ready to add to energy prices? It doesn't come out of nowhere, because the Germans suddenly have a better government... I refrained from adding more. This is only due to better management. These are just some of the priorities that the Germans have adopted. There is the agreement of the entire political elite to add EUR 30 billion to energy prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u24	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask. Mr. Senator, I'll sign you up. I remind you of the time limit... I mean, I didn't get the answer to the steel import question. That's right. What is global size and, above all, what does it look like when it comes to imports from the Russian Federation? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u25	As far as imports of steel are concerned globally, it is I'm sorry, I don't have the exact data here, a row of 74%. That's the government of greatness. I'd love to, too. If I may, then perhaps I could answer in writing, because I don't have it on hand. 74% domestic consumption of steel products comes from outside the European Union. That's my information. As far as directions are concerned 'Cause I understand that's what you're asking me. That's not the kind of information I have here. We will be happy to answer this question in writing. Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u26	Sure, the Minister will answer that question in writing. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have three questions. I'll try to be brief. I will start by asking the question that will apply to the Huta, the steel industry and the people associated with this industry in Częstochowa. The Minister said in his speech that the government is dealing with the strategy, wants to create the best climate and wants to be in dialogue with the industry. The problem of Huta is that it is indebted to 250 million. This is debt in national banks, which is our common problem. Something about this debt will have to be done, somehow it will have to be dealt with. My first question is this. It is actually most important because it is expressed as an expectation of the ministry. Various procedures are taking place at the Huta, there were different investors, there is a syndicate, there are decisions of the court, etc. Can we count? Let me get this straight. For the arrival of someone from the Ministry, Minister or Vice Minister, to Częstochowa for such a round table? I'm asking because there are processes that are uncoordinated. There are many stakeholders, there are trade unions, employees, city authorities, banks, subsidiaries, investors. I think that in a city like Częstochowa, the arrival of a minister, i.e. showing that the government wants this plant to exist, produce and continue to employ workers, is really very much expected by the residents and by everyone involved in this industry. The second question I ask is that the government supports and promotes the policy of Buy Polish. And in the case of our steelworks, the fact is that Polish companies buy sheet metal manufactured by the company, I will give this as an example. DanSteel, which is actually owned by the Newlipe combo. He sends his weaks from Russia to Denmark, where they are rolled and return to Poland as Danish plates. A Huta.Frequency is able to produce a similar product at a similar price. My second question: can we look at this issue as part of the support for the Polish programme? I ask this because it is indeed circumvention of certain regulations and the sale to Poland of Russian steel, although it can be produced quietly in Poland, in Huta. My third, short question is not that Polish energy companies will lower prices or apply special discounts for Polish companies Although, of course, it would be good. But to better treat investors, entrepreneurs who want to invest here. I mean, the Huta is now loaded with prepayments, different security features when it wants to buy energy. Companies thus block large funds. Is there any way the government could try to influence this? It could be, for example. The topic of the conversation at this mentioned round table, because the company is treated as a failed ISD I would ask you to answer these three questions. The most interesting thing is whether someone can come to the interview and if we can count on direct help in Częstochowa, so that we feel coordination and just the desire of the government to help this industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u28	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a broader reflection. Well, I often face such an objection from the opposition that the Government of Law and Justice is a government that wants to take too much responsibility for the next aspects of reality. Some say he wants to make things national, some say he wants to influence the economy, manually steer things, etc. In the situation of the steelworks... I said it before, but I'm gonna say it again to make it sound like it. The whole steel industry in Poland is now in the hands of foreign companies. Yeah, the whole steel industry is in the hands of foreign companies today. Of course, there are Indian, Spanish, American companies, which are more modernized. etc. But the steelworks you're talking about has a very difficult past, a difficult past related to an investor from abroad, who, for several years, has clearly reduced its quality. This led to the fact that today the Huta stochowa is in bankruptcy. So we're talking about a situation where we're dealing with foreign entities. And they led to a situation where, as I said, an important element from the perspective of the state 'Cause we want to have a steel industry in Poland. He's in bankruptcy. I understand that there is a consensus, including the opposition, to nationalise such projects and that you take responsibility for the subsequent restructuring of such an undertaking. That's why I took notice of earlier, because it's logically contradictory. Either the PiS takes too much on itself and the state ruled by the United Right takes too much responsibility for the various spheres of the economy, or the fact is that we are now to take on the nationalization of the steelworks. I put it more as a question to you because I think the answer is obvious. If you are asking about specific actions... PKO Bank Polski, as far as I know, is responsible for supporting the plant in this process. But the answer to the strategic question about what is next with Huta Fultochowa does not belong to the government, but belongs to the owner. You're asking me if I can take part in a round table, in conversations. Of course, because we're a government that's trying to talk. The Ministry of Development by many entrepreneurs is treated as one which is indeed very open to social dialogue. If you ask in the steel industry what is the opinion on these draft laws I was talking about, this team I was talking about, it will turn out that the evaluation is very high. The steel industry is rather giving us very positive opinions about these actions, because it is aware of the limitations I am talking about, the ownership restrictions, the restrictions on huge investments in this industry, the constraints on the structural problems it is facing. I guess that's it for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u30	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Józef Zając's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u31	I have a question: what kind of action are the government represented by your ministry possible with regard to those companies that have become owners of the steelworks? I understand that these may be forms of pressure, tax policy, some kind of environmental requirements, quality of production, etc. What does the government have in its relations with these companies?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u32	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u33	First of all, we're regulators. Not as a government, but as a government in cooperation with parliament. What we have, above all, is the issue of laws, regulations, including those directly related to energy. The bill designs I've been talking about, that's what I'm doing. Surely the role of the Ministry is also to create spaces for dialogue, to understand different areas. Therefore, at the very beginning I mentioned the Energy Intensive Industries Team, which has been operating since 4 October 2018. This is also part of the dialogue with this sector. The third element is the question of a common policy relating to activities in the European Union. These realities are closely linked, as I tried to show. A private entity is not easy to discuss with the European Commission about such or other principles, e.g. border carbon tax, which I was talking about as a system solution. Here is the role of administration. Finally, the fourth area, which is related to the measures we have for innovation, research and development. This area requires a lot of work and resources. An example of IPCEI, which I was talking about, which is today's flagship research and development programme on hydrogen strategy for the steel industry... It could be something that private entities as recipients of a certain technology as well as Polish universities, Polish scientists, smaller components of consortia, and finally the Polish state, which is the moderator of such a program sent or submitted to the European Union, would be involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u34	Thank you, Minister. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I agree with you... That's what you said, and you're right: it can't be one minister's problem. And full agreement. Minister, four and a half years ago, when we fought to create a bill, such as from a real event, about green energy, to improve the existing law, I must tell you, we warned you that a day would come when the price of energy would not allow many workplaces to operate. Your president of one of the major energy companies also said with a begging voice that you have to do everything to reduce energy... But this man of yours at the meeting of the parliamentary group of Members and Senators also said that there would be only an increase on coal at this price. We artificially held the price of energy. You know, it was about the election. For 25 years, Minister, I have been building Western capital labor facilities. I have current contact with them. Because of the prices, coming inevitably, which kills the operation of the workplaces, they start to push out more and move away from us... And I, referring to this sentence that you have said, Minister, would like to say that I would be in favour of you as Minister of Development to take the initiative of your ministry to act quickly because... I agree with you: it will not fly manually, but the government is there to create a system. And I urge you and your department to take this very seriously. Because we didn't have nuclear energy, we destroyed the green energy. That's the truth. We're starting to talk about the so-called. Green energy at sea. We've missed 4.5 years, Minister. Now you have to do everything instantly to reduce the cost of energy. This is one of the most important issues at the moment. Plus, Minister, I urge you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. This was not a question, of course, but a statement. Here you go, sir, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u37	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Thank you very much for being ready for dialogue on these issues. I see in your speech a great understanding of the challenges facing all of us. For my part, you have a declaration of all openness to further action, including in these matters. As far as green energy is concerned, my view of the situation is as follows. In September 2019 the RES Act was amended... Only after four years. ...and with it were announced great auctions on green energy order. Secondly, we have my current programme, in which in 2019 20,000 photovoltaic panels or photovoltaic panels were launched. It is already announced for 2020. It's going to be this row of size that we're talking about as many as 100,000 photovoltaic panels next year. This means that green energy is taken seriously by this government, and I would like more action to be taken. The Ministry of Development in these discussions is absolutely in favour of investing in RES precisely because the more electricity mix from photovoltaic panels or windmill farms, the lower the energy price due to this CO2 emissions I mentioned earlier. So we have a full match here. These actions I have been talking about, in my opinion, are heading in exactly this direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u38	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a very important topic, not only for Krakow, but generally for the entire Polish economy, especially for smaller towns where steelworks are located. I'm a resident. Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskiego, where the Huta Ostrowiec operates, Celsa Huta Ostrowiec. The investor is a Spanish investor. In my opinion, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first sentence has a false basis, and we should be aware of what the Minister said. We are not dealing with the situation of the Polish steel industry, the correct definition is that we are to consider the situation of the steel industry in Poland. All Polish steel companies were sold during the transformation, with very painful results in many places. I would like to mention to you an example of the Ostrowice plant. At the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, 17,000 people worked in this steelworks and produced about 1 million tons of steel. The future contemporary times of Spain have been the owners of the steelworks for more than 10 years and continue to produce about 1 million tons of steel, while in the steelworks there are about 1 thousand 300 people, while in the companies around functioning there are about 1 thousand people working for this company. Let us remember that the beginning of the Polish transformation was a huge social cost. I am aware that even the 900 or 1,000 people working in the Sendzimir Hut are a serious challenge, but imagine what would happen if, in the early 1990s, the encouragement of Balcerowicz's plan to a Canadian restructuring firm working on the steel situation were followed. Well, there was a program for the Huta Ostrowiec, a program to close this plant. What would be left of the city, which at that time had about 80,000 inhabitants, without this crucial workplace? So much history. I think we need to be aware that we are dealing with a global problem, because the operation in Krakow of this plant and this kiln, which was modernised for a huge amount a few years ago, was modernised and renovated, it is something unimaginable that really reflects the situation of the steel industry in Poland. But let's also have, ladies and gentlemen, the awareness that outside energy... And here I would like to thank the Minister for the good cooperation of the government team with the steel industry, especially with the owners. I would like you to be aware that in recent years VAT mobs have been effectively fought, not elsewhere, but in the steel industry... And it was especially important in the Ostrowiec plant, where steel is produced. Of course, it is not about steel for the defence industry, it is about steel for the construction industry, and in international trade steel bars, of this reinforcement steel, were the subject of great lawlessness. The VAT clearance allowed the steelworks to survive and 1,300 families living there. And I would like to ask you this question. Are there any possibilities to rebuild chains of links that once existed in Poland? It is about rebuilding the practically liquidated shipbuilding industry, which may be another flywheel, alongside the construction industry, for the steel industry. Well, for example. To this day, Ostrowiec produces state-of-the-art crankshafts for ship engines, monolithic shafts, Dear Sirs, which are several, several meters long. It's a Polish thought. And I would also like to thank you for your fruitful cooperation with research institutions, because each of these steelworks, which is not a speculative steelworks... It is worth saying this because this example quoted by the Minister and the Senator of Częstochowa is particularly important. The idea is that these steelworks, which operate in Poland, cooperate with government institutions, as well as benefit from R &amp; D resources or funds, e.g. from the environmental fund, improving the quality of technology in their workplaces. Minister, is there any chance of a link between these chains that would enable the shipbuilding industry to recover? Crank shaft in Ostrowiec, engine in Cegielski, other elements, sheet metal in other steelworks All of this is possible to produce in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u40	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u41	Thank you so much for that vote. I'm gonna start by saying something about transformation. I absolutely agree with you. I wrote my own PhD on Solidarity. At the time, when I wrote this doctorate, I had the opportunity to talk to a number of activists of Solidarity, including the shipbuilding and steel industry, and I realized how much it was a waste of what happened in the 1990s. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the situation in which we are, unfortunately, is that we need to think less about the past and more about the future. The fact that the government received in 2015 is simply a stalemate After previous years and you have to think about how to develop it in the perspective of 30 years, because thinking about what has been done wrong in the last 30 years is often frustrating and it only leads us to not want to continue working. It's kind of the title of this historical theme. You asked a key question about links, which were also in Częstochowa. Częstochowa really had a direct link with the shipbuilding industry and one of the reasons for the problems of the steelworks was that the industry fell. The subject of VAT may still be digression It was indeed also the subject of a very good conversation, dialogue between global companies and the government. This VAT gap was also sealed thanks to good cooperation with the steel industry. I'm going back to the question of rebuilding. Yeah, I think that's a possibility. The situation in the shipbuilding industry in general is that its nature has changed. We no longer produce large tankers, large ships, we produce much smaller units and the repair yard is today the fifth largest shipyard in the European Union, although it specializes in the production of specialized vessels. We also have a very good yacht industry. So that I think there is a future before the shipbuilding industry, and we as a government will actively support it. And what I see the best chance at is the issue of wind farms, i.e. those offshore contracts which will allow the construction of steel structures which may be a flywheel for the steel industry. So investing in green energy makes sense. not only from the perspective of the electricity prices we talked about, but also from the perspective of using steel to create windmill farms. This is one of those elements that I look at with great optimism.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u42	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u43	Minister, Senator Fedorowicz has accepted your statement with understanding, I am surprised, also because of the government's helplessness, the government's helplessness in relation both to those global trends that you have spoken about and to the problems that the government itself has created. After all, the move away from green energy, the suspension of programmes that were supposed to gradually shift us to green energy, for 4.5 years led to irreparable losses in energy policy. You're doing your homework right now, trying to make up for your losses in these areas as well... or the losses you've caused. And now I'd like to ask you about this surprising episode that took place this summer. Of course, you weren't a minister back then. In any case, in the summer of this year, a meeting took place between the owner of the Krakow steelworks and Prime Minister Morawiecki and your boss, current boss, Minister Emilewicz. There were some conversations during that meeting. Later, it was reported that the large furnace would not be extinguished and the steelworks would not stop production. That's exactly what happened on July 25th. Then the assurances of prominent politicians, such as Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, like Mr Sasin, came along, as to the fact that there will certainly be no interruption. And it calmed the mood in Krakow when the election campaign took place. Many seemed to be the final declaration. Then the election came, and immediately after the election it turned out that it was the opposite, than had previously been provided by prominent politicians of the PiS. Turns out the big furnace goes out, and the steelworks stops production. It turned out that about 1,000 people are at risk, and co-operatives, because that's about the ratio of 1:7, will either have to suspend their production or just go bankrupt. And now I would like to know from you whether those assurances that were said with such certainty during the election campaign were one big electoral sham or whether something simply changed in the position of the owner himself, Mr Mittal, when it comes to the Krakow steelworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u44	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, we are having a discussion, and this is also a certain extension of the discussion we had during the election campaign. As I understand it, she must be such a confrontational character... But as you've seen, I've been trying to find what's in common, including what your colleagues at the club said. And I think that's what the situation needs today, because it's about long-term thinking about energy, long-term thinking about metallurgy. My proposal is that we confront each other less in this way and think more constructively for the future. About the thread you're talking about... Maybe something else. There are a few things I said earlier, and I feel like I'm gonna do it twice, but I'm gonna do it again for the third time, because they've been twisted in your speech. It's not true that it's 1:7 when it comes to co-operatives. It's 1:4 when it comes to co-operatives. So it's not that proportion, that's what I'm talking about. For about 1,000 employees in Nowa Huta we have about 4 000 employees in cooperating companies. Secondly, it is not true that these companies are doomed to failure. That's what I've been talking about. Research shows that they are able to adapt flexibly, and that they have not only Mittal in their portfolio today. It is not true that this must automatically mean the collapse of these companies. Finally, I've talked about it twice, I'll repeat it for the third time. Mittal is a private, global company that makes its own decisions in the areas in which it operates. I think that the questions to politicians about what will happen in Częstochowa, what will happen in this company or in another company, are the creation of this confrontation climate that I mentioned at the beginning and which will then lead to the fact that declarations or If we were to use, say, a less powerful message Mittal's signals will be treated as a commitment by Prime Minister Gowin or Minister Emilewicz. I would like to say that if there were such statements of government representatives, it was to pass on the results of the conversation with the private company, which is ArcelorMittal. Assigning this context that you are referring to is merely leading to this confrontation that seems to be of no use here. It seems to me that it is understandable to everyone that the government is not able to decide what decisions are made by private entities. Thank you, Minister... Excuse me, maybe one more thing... You're welcome. ...because I've heard it once before... It is not true that nothing has been done in the last four years on the subject of RES. This is also the rhetoric of such political journalism. The facts are that Donald Tusk was a great advocate of investing in coal energy, his involvement in Opole... It is not true that the Civic Platform is all its heart for green energy, and the PiS has been totally against RES so far. The facts are that it is an energy mix and in an energy mix, as the name indicates, there are certain proportions. I think that today the issue in the context of the European Union's climate policy is so serious that we need to think about the future, as I said earlier, how this mix is to look. It's kind of a shift... You can really find a lot of investment from the times of the Civic Platform's government, which were black and not green investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u46	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jacek Bury is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at the beginning of this speech I heard a statement or a statement that we have expensive steel, which is uncompetitive because we have expensive energy, that we will try to build expensive apartments using this expensive steel, of course, and then we will find that we will have very expensive food, everything will be expensive... I understand that the government will fund everything, subsidise everything. I just want to remind everyone that the government doesn't have its own money. It's taxpayers' money, we pay for it all. When it comes to energy, I'm glad you're doing a lot of green energy stuff. This is the last bell, we are behind in Europe and in the world when it comes to green energy. What's wrong with me? And here's a question for the Minister. A few years ago, you wiped out mining problems under the carpet. Instead of reforming mining, you decided to hide these things, including mines into energy companies. We are now facing the consequences. Is the government serious about the reform of mining? It's hidden under the carpet... well, I won't say what... anchor, oh, maybe I'll say, anchor that chokes the Polish economy. If it doesn't reform, we'll still be burdened with this ballast. Question: Does the government think about the reform of mining, does it think it is better not to touch on this subject and all Poles should pay in taxes and in expensive energy for this sector of our inefficient economy? And the second question is very specific. What is the share of green energy and normal energy in Poland at the moment? Percentage share.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u48	In a mix, right? Good. Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u49	That's the problem I've been talking about twice before. I hear in this Chamber that we should engage in lowering energy prices, that is, subsidising these energy prices from our taxes. In the same room, I hear that we should get involved in the Huta, which is the best way to rehabilitate it. And in the same room, I hear there's too much in our taxes for economic development. That's what happens in pluralism, Minister. That's how it goes in pluralism. I just want to point out that this pluralism leads to schizophrenia, can lead to schizophrenia. So you have to look for... Well, if anybody says "A" and someone says "A" it's a situation that could end in schizophrenia... This is pluralism. ...so you have to look for a direction that will take into account both logic, both arguments. Or find a third solution. Or find a third solution. Yes, sir. Minister, don't argue with your own voices. Anyone can sign up, then you can answer the question. There you go. As for the coal issue, as I said earlier, from the perspective of economic efficiency of the Polish economy it is in our common interest that, in the face of new climate regulations, the amount of coal energy in the energy mix should decrease. But today we really do. This was the question you had previously asked about the issue of imports of coal from abroad. Because very often a specific heat and power plant pays more to buy coal from abroad than from a Polish manufacturer. So really changing this mix doesn't necessarily mean closing the mines. It could mean we're just going to reduce the amount of carbon we're buying from the outside. And that should be our goal first. As far as the facts are concerned again, the facts are also such that in the last four years, according to what has been presented to me in this aspect, five mines have been closed. So again, there's a rhetoric like, you invest in coal, you invest in coal. And the facts show that there is some rationalization of this system. You asked about the mix. In the energy mix, the share of RES is 13%. Whether it's much or little, it's for discussion. Not much. What the government's goal today is to make this energy mix more RES. This is also what my electricity programme is for, and these investments in green energy, which I mentioned earlier. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Minister had just said to another senator: it is not worth thinking about what has been done in the last 30 years, because it can be frustrating. I have to say, I'm particularly frustrated with the last four years. E.g. This is in the context of the topic that we are talking about, Ms Zalewska's actions, which is very few who are effectively fighting renewable energy and windmills. But that's not what I want to ask, Minister. I would like to ask you about the labour market that I am interested in, which is close to me, like everything in social policy. So the fact that the companies of the Krakow steelworks, the companies of the daughter... The Minister reassured them that they would somehow survive, that they would find new places on the market, new orders. I'd like to ask you about those bets that work with the steelworks. Because it is often the case that in the industry, a hard place to work in a given workplace is one thing, and jobs outside of that plant are the other. Do you have an assessment of this situation? Because here we have full agreement with the Minister that we cannot exert any influence on the owner of any private establishment, including the steelworks. But the truth is that every government makes sure that the level of investment is increasing rather than falling. So it mainly creates private investors, because they are the most economical, they bring the most gross GDP, as the Minister knows, and if not, I shyly remind you that they more than the state piers can adapt to the needs of the labour market and reality... So my question is: are these conditions that we create, including the owners of companies as large as steel companies, sufficient, according to the Minister? So my question about jobs, about employees not only in the steelworks in Krakow, but also in cooperation companies. How many jobs are there, according to the Minister, that could be lost due to the burning of the furnace, and are the conditions created for investors, mostly investors in the industry that we are talking about today, sufficient according to the Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u52	Thank you, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u53	As I mentioned before, according to our estimates, it's 1:4, which is to say, against 1,000 employees, the steelworks are 4,000 employees of the cooperative companies. About... Maybe there's one more thing. You pay a great deal of attention to this negative option, while most of my speech was moving towards active action to ensure that a positive option was implemented, a positive option meaning the opposite of extinction, i.e. the reheating of the furnace in the steelworks in the third quarter or in the fourth quarter. As I said, such conversations are conducted. Except again, if I declare today that it will be for sure, next year someone will say that Minister Mazur came and said on behalf of a private entity that it would be for sure. Excuse me? You'll be gone by then.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u54	Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask your senators to remain serious and respectful to the Minister who gives the answer. This is not a room where the rules of the TV studio apply. I ask that everyone respond when the marshal gives him the floor, and that he doesn't interrupt each other. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u55	I'm going back to the answers. This is a variant that is still possible. Hot extinguishing means that in the third or fourth quarter this furnace can start. This is the most optimistic option. The slightly less optimistic option I was talking about is that ultimately the furnace does not move, but the mill continues to carry out rolling activities related to the fact that the steelworks in Dąbrowa Górnicza produces the so-called. The weak, or semi-finished products that transport to Krakow, and there workers in the mill work them. It's less prestigious for the steelworks, as I said, it is. It is also economically more difficult for the company, because once heated weakness, necessarily, in transport it cools down, even if there are technical ways for this cooling to be as small as possible, from Dąbrowa to Krakow it is not far away, but it always cools down, which means that it needs to be heated again so that it can be treated plastically. So it's not an optimal for Mittal, but it's also possible. And finally there is the third option that I am talking about, i.e. one in which we invest really in the fact that Mittal is developing rather than folding in Krakow, because it is related to the long-term reindustration policy of the Polish state. And this is the option that I believe most in, and I believe that it will be feasible. You ask, what if you don't? I understand that this is the main issue, mostly such comments are formulated. If not, it seems to me that those 4,000 people who are cooperating... Apart from the fact that there is an employee market, as I said, there are also data that say that we invest about 20% GDP, which means that small and medium-sized enterprises are also becoming increasingly competitive. And, as I said, our analysis shows that the steelworks weren't the only portfolio for them, which means they're able to switch to other contractors as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the senator like to ask you an additional question? No. In that case, please, sir, Senator Marcin Bosacki, who is now asking questions. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you've said a lot of reasonable things. Thank you. I believe that these words from the mouth of a representative of the Government of Law and Justice are over four years too late. The most valuable thing you said was a comparison of the situation of Poland and Germany, what is the difference, and the least sensible thing you said, was several times to shed all responsibility on the Union's climate policy. Well, Germany is in a similar situation as we are, and the effect is different, which is that after 5 years the proportions have changed and we have 1/4 higher energy prices than it was 5 years ago when the Germans had these energy prices lower... sorry, higher. Then, of course, the Germans had them higher, now we have higher. What is the difference? On 2 things, first of all, they have consistently developed alternative energy sources over these 5 years, and secondly, they are more efficient in lobbying for their affairs within the European Union. And this is the main problem with your formation or with your formation, even if they are late or not late, but reasonable ideas, it actually wins the not very smart one, saying very diplomatically, rhetoric that we see all the time, anti-ecological rhetoric and anti-EU rhetoric. After all, we could really do something like this. in the Fair Transformation Fund get more, if not for the fact that the gentlemen are mostly gentlemen, but yesterday were also ladies, you organize all these circuses with a story about what the European Union is bad and how we will now get off our knees and, quote, we will be a sovereign state again. I quote yesterday's statements from representatives of the Law and Justice in the European Parliament. So I have a question for you... And, of course, climate policy is absolutely our common interest. It's not just a business to be nicer with us, as you said at some point. It is also the interest of the huge areas of Poland, my Wielkopolska, Łódź, Mazowsze... It's wet. Kujaw. ...the sea that steppe. If we don't do something immediately, we can't grow cereals or other crops there in a dozen years. So it's a common interest. I have two questions for you. First of all, don't you regret this anti-ecological policy, mostly anti-window policy, over the last four years? Yes, she's being changed now, too late, but you should appreciate it somehow. And secondly, do you not regret this confrontation in all environmental, economic, political and, of course, mainly on the rule of law in Poland with practically all the rest of the Union? The best example was the famous 1:27 vote. These are my two questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u59	From the perspective of the topics we are discussing today, I can say that the relationship between the government and the European Union is very different from what you say. It is drawn in such a way that, with our participation, the European Commission has also agreed to the tariff quota which I mentioned earlier. It is about the effects of the US customs policy, which has resulted, as I said, in flooding the European market with steel. And this quota is an attempt to answer that. True, as I said, by 30 June 2021, and therefore this is a temporary solution, but it has allowed this effect to be reduced. We were an active participant in this trial. There are few countries that have a different approach, a much more liberal approach, such as the Netherlands. They do not want the policy of the European Union to follow in this respect to some extent the policy of the United States, i.e. customs policy. But, in spite of that, Poland is rather on the subject of metallurgy... Most of the countries have been persuaded as much as possible. As I recall, I think 18 countries are needed to set such a tariff quota. And we were among those 18 countries. The second thread. The new President of the European Commission, as I also mentioned in my speech, said that the work on carbon border tax, i.e. the border tax, which is intended to systematically solve the steel problem, but not only steel, because all energy-intensive products made according to the high climate standards of the Union and the low climate standards of the rest of the world, is today the work of the European Commission. This is as much in line with the Polish state's reason, it is as much in line with what the Ministry of Development and also the Polish government have for the last 4 years in various conversations which are probably at a lower level than the highest political level, at the level of directors, vice-ministers, in Brussels they promote. Now that the Commissioner is saying today: we need this work, I do not agree with the idea that we are against the Union and there are always 27 against 1. The policy is that there are different areas of dispute, and in those you are talking about, perhaps more mediaally, it has been so, but there are many areas in which we are actually able to build majority coalitions around our interests. And the thread I was talking about. It is not true that we today are excluded from the Just Transition Fund. Since you recall the quotations from yesterday's session in the European Parliament, I can recall the information that also appeared yesterday that Poland is to be the largest beneficiary of the Just Transition Fund. The project I was talking about, Coal Regions in Transition, dedicated specifically to regions that have the most developed carbon thread in their history, in their identity, in their DNA, in their economy, is to be part of the support for this transformation. In all this, in these changes Poles are not on their tail, but rather actively participate in shaping these mechanisms. So I do not agree that the European Union is here in some fundamental dispute with Poland. I would point out that maybe even so strongly that what happened in the Council in December 2019 was not a confrontation. There was an understanding for precisely this situation of Poland connected with its 30-year-old and even longer history and that the Polish way to adopt very high climate standards of the European Union should be different. It's all I interpret as cooperation, and you interpret as being in contrast, there's a clear difference of opinion here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Marcin Bosacki signalled, as I understand it, a desire to ask a second question. I mean, I want to ask because... I want to remind all of you senators that this is not the time for polemics, it is the time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u61	Yeah, yeah. Minister, I thank you for your reply, but I will say that you have not answered my question as to whether you regret the lack of action for four years, and really not so much lack of action, but the reversal of the policy of inquiry into alternative sources of energy, because for at least the first three years, the percentage of RES in the energy mix has decreased rather than increased, according to Eurostat data. I can quote that to you. The question is... It is about energy prices, Minister, and of course we in every option will be the biggest shareholder or beneficiary of the solidarity fund in the energy transition, but I am referring you to I hope you've read it. Today's Business Pulse, in which it says that our share could be even tens of billions of zlotys higher. And it's not just media news, it's also news from experts from Brussels, mine and not just mine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u63	I haven't read the Business Pulse yet, because I've been preparing for a meeting with you all morning so I can catch up. Appreciate it. You're asking me if I regret these four years. You know, this is public-political rhetoric, and what, now I'm gonna prove to you that I'm judging these four years completely differently? These facts, which I gave, show that today is the government's will not only to speak, but to implement concrete legal solutions. And we have my current program, we have a program consisting of new green energy orders, big auctions. I don't agree with your rhetoric, but it's just a political difference, not a substantive one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question you ask is Senator Antoni the Man. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in fact, the steel problem is mainly the issue of energy prices, because it is 40%. costs, and Trump's war with China, Trump's steel war with China, because there's 25% there. customs duties. It also affects the right percentage... It's about tariff quotas, it's about European policy. These are the main problems. All the sides you're talking about... You can talk about it, it is for discussion, even more for discussion than for resolution. I'm really glad you're very familiar with the energy problem. According to your statement, you're one of the few professionals who knows the energy problem. Because we had different ministers here... You can have a lot of reservations about the fact that there are very few people on this ruling team who understand and are able to address the energy problem, especially as regards contemporary trends in this energy industry. They're very far gone and we're not going to talk about it here. I would like to ask you what you said, that Germany is inverse to Poland when it comes to the cost of energy prices for the consumer sector. It seems to me that as far as this inverse is concerned, she existed or existed. We can only talk more about renewable energy costs when it comes to renewables in the past. This is because there the energy intensive sector was shielded from costs, the certificates were paid mainly by individual customers, a group of individual customers. The Lord said, "It's the other way around." On the other hand, it happened now, after the increase of June 2018. Indeed, with us, a group of individuals was shielded by these subsidies, while an energy-intensive group... You spoke about the November 2018 agreement on the energy-intensive sector, so it's probably worse shielded. As far as I'm concerned, as regards the price increase resulting from the rise in the price of CO2 emissions... He was visible throughout the European Union, the price increase was also in France and Germany. Minister Tchórzewski emphasized very much at the time that this is not the specificity of Polish energy and referred to these examples. Most likely they did not apply the mechanism as in the case of RES. Turns out, in Germany, it turned out to be a good thing because... Mr. Senator, I would stress that there's a minute for the question. Yeah, I'm almost done. Question: Are there other elements here? About that perspective... You mentioned wind energy, it's energy at sea. Well, there are quite limited possibilities in terms of how much we can invest... Mr. Senator... ...when it comes to costs. The costs are problematic, too. Thank you very much. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u66	Mr. Senator, I am very appealing because I hear from you that you are sometimes irritated by the fact that I'm sorry, maybe the word "irritated" is inadequate. That senators exceed one minute when asking questions. I try not to find a balance between my natural liberalism and the promotion of freedom of expression and the adherence to the rules. I would very much ask that there be a will on both sides, mine and yours, to follow the rules: first, the question, secondly, a minute. We are about to have a debate in which each of you, honourable ladies and senators, will have the opportunity to speak freely for as long as 10 minutes and say what his opinion is on the matter. I would very much ask for mutual respect. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u67	Thank you, Senator, for your kind words. The thread you started with, which is Trump's thread and the energy prices... These are exactly the three points that I mentioned at the beginning, so that we totally agree here. The German question you asked about. Yes, the mechanism is that the cost of transforming that energy system is more borne by individuals than by industry. That is the decision of the political elite. I would like to remind you that the entire Sejm voted in favour of compensation on 28 December 2018. It was a thing that wasn't controversial. We voted together, this other logic was accepted by everyone. Couldn't it be different? Couldn't it be different? I don't know. I'm just showing you what the problem is today. Those are the facts. About how much at sea... Investment in windmills at sea is a matter of 2, 3 years. We need to know that this investment process is going to take so long. When it comes to size, it's 10 GW. This is estimated to be the case in this area. Thank you very much, Minister. Another senator who signed up for the question... Sorry, one more thing. You're welcome, Minister. For this to work, we need to keep in mind the planning of maritime space. This is something we haven't done on such a scale, and it's gonna require conceptual work, analyzing how to do it with your head.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. Let me repeat: another senator who signed up for What's important? Ongoing One minute's question to the Minister is honorable Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm trying to fit in this minute, and I hope I can fit in, even though it's been 15 seconds. It'll be deducted. I'm addressing the Minister. You mentioned these three reasons, among others. the decline in car production, I understand, in Europe. Would you be so kind as to point out what is in your assessment of the reasons for this decline in production? Isn't it a coincidence? so that this decrease is also affected by the fact that the same models of cars last year I'm talking about 2019 and they had to spend, on average, €3,000 on average, to take into account the rules governing the increased environmental standards? The same model, which cost X 5 years ago, in 2019 cost: X plus 3,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u71	Honourable Senator, this aspect of the subject you are talking about is present, but I know a study that shows that a much greater impact on this decline is a change of lifestyle. People in Western Europe leave the use of cars, especially in large cities. Used to own a car, even 2 cars in the family were the norm, and today more and more people, especially from the young generation, are giving up the car for not only public transport but also new ways of moving. I mean, like, Uber services or something. more and more popular in Germany car rentals. So maybe we're dealing with a permanent change in social behavior, which will make it in the context of the corked cities, but also the ecological culture, the culture of use, not the possession of... You can see it not only in the case of cars, but also, I don't know, the music of Spotify or... Today, we don't need records or cassettes to listen to music, but access to the portal is enough. We don't need VHS tapes today. Netflix is enough. And we may not need cars any minute now, but we will need access to a platform that will give us the opportunity to use this car easily and at any time. Yeah, but that means a giant problem for the whole car industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. The senator has requested an additional question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u73	But it has to be taken into account that in these changes of habits, let's call it consumer, I don't know if you'll agree with this opinion. The economic account plays an important role. If car maintenance costs more, the car is more expensive, associated fees and inconveniences, e.g. parking, they're getting bigger... This could be one of the main causes of these ecological behaviors, not clean ones, let's call it an idea. Do you agree with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u74	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u75	I wouldn't say that what I'm talking about is pure ideas. I would say that nowadays in Western countries, relatively well developed, perhaps a larger deficit is not about money, but about time. People who choose different modes of movement, take the metro or simply drive with the driver of this company You know what I'm talking about. They can do something else at the same time, not stand in traffic. And maybe it's just a matter of time, not an idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Lamczyk's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! You spoke here about the right to issue, about the carbon tax, but I think that other countries that are in Europe have created such a programme for the energy-intensive industry. What's it look like here? Well, all the time, I think that's the kind of program that's missing. We were just talking about subsidies. I have a question about Polish copper, because it consumes the most energy. As for the hut to the room... Because, as you know, there were group redundancies and she's still not doing well. Second question. It is known that the steelworks from Krakow, which we are talking about... The same owner, Mittal, also owns a coke plant in Zdzieszowice, which is very strongly connected with Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Doesn't the Minister feel that there is a certain degree of blackmail here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister to... Can I ask you a question? You're welcome. What is this blackmail supposed to be? On the import of coal, i.e. Coke etc. Who's blackmailing who? I'm thinking of an investor. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u79	About... Again in your question there is such a clear distinction between Poland and the European Union. Poland is a member of the European Union, and the law I was talking about, the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, is a common solution for the whole of the European Union. So it's not true that they can and we can't. This is a common solution, a common mechanism which in Poland, as I said, in 2020, 2021 means each PLN 890 million of subsidies, so that these energy-intensive industries can help with the rise in energy prices. Besides, you asked about the copper issue. We are very active in seeking compensation for copper producers in the new EU perspective. So this is part of the government agenda, and we have it on the wallpaper as much as possible. As for the blackmail, I'm sorry, I wouldn't want to judge that. It's awkward for me to get into this kind of speculation. I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. If the senator has an extra question, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u81	I also asked about the Huta Room, because it is known that there were group redundancies, and she is not doing well either. What's the information here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u83	Well, they're not good, they're not good. And if there's a difference... Each one of these huts It's actually a separate story. You can talk a lot and about the way you transform, and about who came in as the owner, and whether it's an electric steelworks, or whether it's a steelworks with a traditional furnace. So they're different stories. Unfortunately, the Huta Room is probably the closest in its history to this critically judged by me and the syndicate... I'm sorry, maybe I said too much. Well, she's one of those steelworks that should have a lot of money to spend on to transform them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. The next senator to ask the question is Senator Wojciech Piech. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question relating to the privatisation of Polish steelworks, because this was the case in 2003. The Supreme Audit Office was on the subject. What are the conclusions and results of this audit? I know that in 2003. The Supreme Audit Office stated that this privatisation was not entirely transparent. In 2003, these mills were loss-making and in 2004 they were suddenly profitable, and this profit exceeds even the level of the investor's financial commitment. So it was a profitable thing for these investors. The second topic is the price of energy, because it keeps repeating here... We're talking about coal. We should walk away from it, and so on. The whole world is not moving away from coal, but we are moving away from coal in Europe. The countries of Southeast Asia are based on coal, most of the electricity is produced in coal power plants. If you look at the statistics, you can find that in 1995 the world was mining 3.6 billion tons of coal, and in 2018 it was already 7.5 billion tons of coal. So there's climate policy, but it's kind of narrowed down to Europe, so the world doesn't care. How does this apply to our European announcements of leaving this fuel?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u87	As far as the future goes... I didn't understand if the intention of your question was to ask whether certain actions of the prosecutor's services had been taken... Yes. As far as I'm concerned, they haven't been taken, but I'm saying this on such a condition that I didn't exactly check this thread... He could have changed, too. In general, the issue of privatisation of the steelworks was a difficult, painful topic related to Polish accession to the European Union, and this was also a direct context. About that question you asked... This is an absolutely crucial issue, and in my speech I tried to pay attention to it first and foremost. I believe that without thinking in terms of border carbon tax, a tax that would allow products produced in completely different climate, economic realities, e.g. in Vietnam, in Asia, as you mentioned, they were subject to an additional amount so that they could compete with products produced in Europe, under other rules... Without this, it will indeed be very difficult for the future to combine the Union's climate policy with economic development.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, Member States The European Union shall benefit from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in cases of closure of the steelworks, closure of any business. This fund is aimed primarily at employees who lose their jobs and have to change it. I would like to ask: how many times have you used this fund for globalisation in the last four years? I would also like to ask you to prepare, in writing, information on how the Government of Law and Justice used this fund in four years. I would also like to ask if, in this case, you have analysed the situation and are going to do this fund to ensure that employees are better placed to move to another workplace or to deal with problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u91	Senator, I don't have accurate information on this. It's a micro-mechanism... As I understand it... I will answer this question in writing, how many times this mechanism has been applied in 4 years. I also know that work is being done on new mechanisms to better respond to demand Among other things, Just Transition Fund, which I was talking about. ♪ But all the time ♪ I think this is the fourth time I'm going to say this in this debate. The basic option we assume is not the end of the steel industry in Nowa Huta. Very... So it's not really a theory that this situation we're in today means that we have to think in terms of how to find others... how to help other employment of these people. I was talking about it within a certain variant, i.e. I think we're ready for that, too. 'Cause it's not that it's going to be completely indifferent to us, but that's not what I'm saying. My main goal was: we need in Poland, we need the steel industry in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Joseph the Hare. I ask the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think that the current state of the energy infrastructure clearly indicates that it will not be a very popular statement, that we will remain in coal power for a long time. The winds do not want to blow very much here, and where windmills were placed, especially in the southern part of Poland, some windmills... Well, when you drive around them, it's rare to see them spinning around. From the so-called. There's a lot of trouble with green energy. So you have to do everything you can to make the most of coal energy. The thing is, we've come to this point where we're buying huge amounts of coal abroad. When I asked for a list of importers with data on who's importing how much coal, I have to say, my hair almost got stuck on my head. And it's weird. Because we have power plants located where coal is almost gone, where coal is extracted at very high costs. It's about Silesia. Meanwhile, there is just excellent coal, energy coal, which is not very suitable for ordinary domestic ovens, but can be burned using the latest combustion techniques. He's in Lublin. Just look at the data of Bogdanka, which currently carries out almost 30% of domestic mining, and intends to build another mine. If a power plant were built there, the right side of the Vistula, this part of Poland would gain one power plant. Does the Minister predict that such measures will be taken so that we will use our own coal, cheaply mined, because the cost of mining in Bogdanka is probably 1/4 of the costs of mining in Silesia, and that we do not carry it somewhere, very far away I watch trains with coal run from Lublin to Poland and towards Silesia, driving coal only there, to build a modern power plant from which there will be no black-bure smoke, but in which coal will be burned in a modern way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u94	Thank you very much, senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u95	Of course, you're absolutely right that climate policy doesn't have to mean moving away from coal. It is also a question of gassing coal in such a way that it is as low as possible in terms of CO2 emissions. I know that Enea announced yesterday or the day before yesterday that she would be launching the block just for carbon gasification. Nevertheless, as far as I know, these are very expensive technologies and here there is always a profit and loss balance. As for the issue of the coal industry at all, the problem is, unfortunately, that in many old mines it is getting deeper and deeper, which makes it more expensive and more expensive, which is why, precisely, someone who manages the coal power plant sometimes pays more to draw coal from abroad than to buy it on the Polish market. This, of course, is not a decision that can be banned from the government's perspective. Nevertheless, this is a challenge for economic sovereignty. As for this particular example you're asking about, I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna give you an answer, because that's, I'd say, in the area, I understand, of a particular company. But if you ask me this question in writing, I would be happy to find out simply in interministerial terms what plans are for this particular mine, this particular location.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. I would very much like to ask the last of these questions, according to the list of Senators tabled, by Mrs Joanna Sekula. You're welcome. Senator. Senator, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me. I have a very brief question, Minister. I would like to know what the estimated amount of household current payments is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u98	Thank you very much, Senator, for indeed the extremely short question as to the standards of our debate. And I'm asking the Minister as much as I believe he is, a short one, because he has a specific answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u99	Short, because the specific answer is that I ask for this question in writing as well. I wouldn't want to give you information that's not true right now. I'd be happy to write it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u100	If so, if I may, I will also ask for information on the amount of aid for the previous year and whether, in the case of companies, this is de minimis aid. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that this answer will be in writing. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka and Senator Sekula, I understand. Please join the senators for the discussion. So far, there are two people in the room for discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich, please. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Only what is happening in Polish steel industry, and especially what has happened in the last months in Nowa Huta, entitles me to occupy your time with this performance. And there are things that are disturbing. The Minister answered our questions in most analytical terms, because it is difficult to answer precise questions, knowing the long-term negligence of the PiS government in Poland's energy policy. Yet this energy policy is partly responsible for the state of the Polish steel industry. As was announced to the public, both the large furnace was extinguished and the steelworks' work stopped due, among others. at high energy prices. And high energy prices are the result of this energy policy. Let's be honest, since it is so that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the price of electricity for enterprises, since the price of electricity in Poland is As we all know in this room It is significantly higher than the price of electricity in Germany, i.e. the situation is short-lived. This situation is the result of the actions and omissions of the government, which today in this Chamber was represented by the Minister. This is not an easy situation because it represented the Prime Minister himself. We asked the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland to answer our questions, while our guest was Deputy Minister of Development. No wonder he was unable to answer many of these questions. This is why it is important to remind that the PiS government has led to the collapse of wind companies, that investments in low-carbon production have been limited, that state-owned companies' money instead of investments have been allocated, among others. on the Polish National Foundation and that new coal plants are still being built. Thus, this mix, which in many countries is the basis for savings and appropriate investment in the sense of developing countries, is distorted with us. And that's the result of this government's policy. What is the situation on the steel production market? Instead of development, there's stagnation. A significant example is the situation in parts of Polish steelworks, and in particular in Kraków. The strategy for responsible development presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki in 2016, called Morawiecki's strategy, spoke, among others. about the development of innovation, she also talked about the reindustrialization of Poland. What is the difference between those declarations and what is happening in the steel industry? Despite the growth of domestic demand for steel for several years... In order not to be literal: the increase in demand in 2018 amounted to 10%. This demand has been generated by an increased demand for the construction market so intensively growing in Poland in recent years and due to infrastructure investments. Nevertheless, steel production in Poland is decreasing. In 2019 the decrease in production was significant, above 6% , and in 2018 2%. What is the reason for this decline in production? Yeah, among other things, there's been a significant increase in imports of steel. That's what we asked you, too. We asked during the debate about the reasons for this significant increase in imports of steel and the direction most imported steel comes from. There is no doubt that the government did not lay down a dam for increasing steel imports and did not reduce the volume of steel imported from Russia, contrary to assurances. Imports account for as much as 72% national consumption. In 2019 it was even more, because 74%. Poland is a leader in steel imports and this is not a cause for pride. The answer to the question of who benefits from the development of the Polish economy, which is growing, who benefits from increased demand on the steel market, is not surprising in the case of the PiS government. No, it's exactly the same thing as carbon. The one who benefits is Russia. As in the case of coal, Russia is also in the forefront of the countries from which we import the most steel products in the case of steel. In 2018 we brought over 1 million 400 thousand tons of steel from Russia and this Russian steel industry benefits most from this good economic situation in Poland. Moreover, if you look the other way, export of Polish steel products falls. In 2018, it was a drop of almost 6%. , 2019 - about 4%. , the final data are not yet known. I'm talking about all the data, all the numbers and the percentages, to make it clear that we're dealing with a paradoxical situation. The increase in demand for steel in Poland, the increase in imports of steel into Poland, the decrease in exports of steel produced in Poland, and therefore there is a reversal of all trends which are in Polish interest, the interest of the Polish economy. Of course, no one urges the government to renationalise those steelworks that are in trouble because it would be contrary to the principles of the free market economy, but we believe that omissions and errors in government policy are visible, they are visible in comparison with the actions of our Western partners. Why, for example? In Germany, after temporary shut-down, a large steelworks furnace was activated in Bremen, and after a short-term shut-off, because only two months? Why, against this background, if the government knew that it was threatening to shut down the great furnace and stop the steelworks in Cracow at the ArcelorMittal plant, did it give public information that there was no such threat? In this way, he removed actions that could have been implemented before the elections were held. I have no doubt that all the declarations I had mentioned earlier by the politicians were of a calming nature before the elections and were electoral. That's not how you do it, ladies and gentlemen. If there is a threat, this risk should be signalled and appropriate remedial measures taken. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest with ourselves that the government minimizes the social consequences of the situation in the Polish steel industry, and also minimizes the situation in Krakow. Well, about 800 people have been relocated since 7 January 2020 from these 2 places Both steelworks and blast furnace For other activities. And 800 people are a lot of people. Some of them are delivered daily to work in the Huta region of Katowice in Dąbrowa Górnicza. The threat is that they will ultimately lose their jobs, so it is criminal for the government to underestimate this problem. Maybe it is so, Minister, that in Krakow this ratio of jobs in the steel industry to jobs in the cooperative sector is 1:4 but it is assumed to be 1:7 or 1:8 in terms of European standards. At the moment, support companies have lost their orders, these companies are at risk of falling, at least the financial crisis, and workers are fired in the financial crisis. In such a situation, the government should implement a special support program for people who lose their jobs in the ArcelorMittal plant in Krakow. We expect this from the government, we expect not only analysis but also concrete action. We expect not only a description of the situation, but also concrete proposals and social protection for people who will lose their jobs because of the decision of a private owner, a decision that the Polish government did not have enough influence on us, although it should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u103	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor in the discussion of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u104	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for this information, which he presented to the High Senate, and to point out that in what the Minister said, there was quite a wide panorama of problems which are related to the specific situation of the steelworks in Krakow. It is not that we are dealing with a closed whole, separated from the surroundings, economic and social environment in Cracow, Poland, but above all from the European context. The Minister spoke very clearly about this, among others. pointing out how much European policy or the activities of the governments concerned are needed in the framework of European steel policy. Some of these phenomena have been mentioned are a consequence of a particular situation in Poland, but some are a consequence of a policy that is conducted at EU level, and I believe that action is needed here on many fronts. The example of Germany has been cited many times in this debate. The Minister mentioned that steel production in Germany is six times higher than in Poland. Senator Klich mentioned German shipyards... I wasn't talking about the shipyards. I was talking about the steelworks. About the steelworks that work in Germany also for German shipyards, which have not been closed on such a scale as shipyards in Poland. These shipyards were in a difficult economic situation due to the crisis and other factors. I will remind you that the previous government, during the government of the PO-PSL coalition, decided on radical movements in this area, which of course resulted in the freezing of the shipbuilding industry in Poland. In the European Union, the German Government was able to convince European authorities that public aid, which is provided to German shipyards, is aid which is part of European policies. I give this as an example to show some differences in the approach to economic policy. Since the beginning of the 1990s, when the European industry began to exit It started earlier, but then it got worse. From Europe and it was fashionable to invest in different non-European countries, build, create jobs, and, also because of production costs, other factors have been eliminated in many European countries by the entire industries, Germany has pursued a different policy, trying to maintain its very high, largest industrial potential in Europe. And that is the difference in the approach to these economic issues. And I would like to point out that the situation of the steelworks in Krakow is a consequence of many factors that determine the situation of this particular plant. Well, this is also a matter of climate policy, a very ambitious one. Climate policy, which is also starting to raise a broad debate in Europe, as it turns out that when it comes to global competitiveness, it is a radically ambitious climate policy, with these tightenings that are being introduced, that leads to the loss of competitiveness on the global stage by European industry. That's another line. Europe boasts, for example, that there is a reduction in CO2 emissions. Yeah, it's happening in Europe. But the one that counts for industrial potential. Because the one counted against consumption, on the contrary, is growing, because Europeans use products that have been produced outside Europe and therefore those CO2 emissions that were related to this particular production are not included in the balance sheet specifically in Europe, but they actually exist. So we see that, in the case of climate policy, we also need to maintain some reasonableness in the discussion on climate policy. And that's why it seems... What I would encourage the Polish government to do is that it is wise, in a thoughtful and consistent way to correct the transformation errors from the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, that Senator Rusiecki asked a specific question. When it was thought that lack of economic policy was the best economic policy when there was such an economic policy, I would say, a strategically unthinkable policy in terms of, for example, privatisation of establishments, sales, disposal of entire economic sectors that still existed at the time. And this led to the situation that we had intense social protests, which also occurred on this occasion. So that I would encourage the government both to be more active in the European Union in all these multifaceted discussions, I tried briefly to outline the palette and scope of the areas concerned, and it concerns not only climate policy but also other policies. As well as to correct economic policy, which is a consequence of the current situation in which certain industrial sectors in Poland are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mr Krzysztof Mazur, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? No, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Before we proceed to the next item on the agenda, I am announcing a three-minute recess. I inform the senators that it is possible to vote after this three-minute break. Hence this break so everyone can get back to the O.R. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 05 to 13 minutes 08]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a second reading of the draft resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people And consider it as item nine of our agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is there an objection? I have a question. At nine o'clock, we're gonna... As point nine... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you, Senator, object to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u106	No, no. I have a question because we have item nine on the agenda, and I heard that there will be another item nine... Yes? That'll be the tenth.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u107	It's gonna be... Mr. Senator, it's just moving. There's nothing to worry about here. I'd like to assure you. Good. I see. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the review of the second agenda: the Act amending the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The text of the Act is contained in print No 34 and the report of the Commission In print No 34 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions on the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is the only central institution responsible for staff training... Mr. Marshal, get in the microphone... You're welcome to the microphone. Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would very much ask the senators to allow the rapporteur to speak, which is very easy to do by stopping talks in the Chamber. You're welcome, Senator. It seems that there are already conditions for you to continue your report. You're welcome. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is an institution that is involved in staff training. Human resources to the prosecutor's office, as well as to the courts. And the rules on it, as such, must be absolutely clear. However, following the introduction of the law amending the law of 2005 the Law on Higher Education, there are some interpretational doubts. This new law of July 2018, the Law on Higher Education and Science, differs in the systematics of the rules and varies from one issue to another. It is therefore necessary to adapt the rules to the role that the school plays in the process of recruitment or training of staff in courts and prosecutors. As I said, the new law differs in its system of rules and regulates many issues, often far different from those of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The activities of the school are financed, in line with the position of the Minister of Justice, by the subjective grant, but as a result of the change in the rules in 2018, the form of financing of the primary activities of the school has changed precisely from the subjective grant to the subsidy. And the amendment of these provisions is currently governed by the proposed Article. 55a, which will remove the doubts about the form of funding for the primary activities of the school, pointing out clearly the subject-matter grant as a budget expenditure in that part of the budget of the State, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. It will not be refundable And that's the threat that we have under the current rules. And these are the main principles of this law. In addition, the authors of this project or, as it is now, the laws have also decided to establish unambiguously the amount of the indicator on the obligation to employ persons with disabilities, the rules of making and the amount of write-downs to the occupational social benefit fund. All these provisions of the Act sanction, as it were, the principles of the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office or adapt them to the original idea of the legislator who introduced the school. The Legislative Bureau spoke about the bill. It proposed amendments, mostly editorial. There is a need for this law to be adopted urgently, and by the end of January 2020, the President should sign it, and the committee therefore considered, also in the vote, that this is an argument in favour of recommending that the High Senate adopt this law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u109	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there ladies and gentlemen senators who would be interested in asking the Senator rapporteur questions? There isn't. I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. The bill is a parliamentary project. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. Please speak to the Deputy Minister of Justice, Undersecretary of State Anna Dalkowska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government, I would like to fully support the draft law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 9 January 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, this Act aims to regulate matters relating to the finances of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is linked to the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, which in previous legislation regulated matters concerning the national finances of the school of judges and prosecutors. One of the most important issues concerning the revision of the law is the issue of grants. For this reason, it is an extremely important element of the legislative process so that the law can enter into force by the end of January this year, because it will not be necessary then. whether the need for reimbursement of grants granted last year in accordance with the Public Finance Act. The proposed amendment harmonises the national finances of the school of judges and prosecutors in line with the new system on higher education and makes it able to carry out its statutory competences in a rational and functional manner, as has been the case so far. So that I ask the High House to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm asking the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would just like to ask in order: is the school a legal person and does it work in the higher education system?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u114	Thank you very much. In answer to this question, I would like to point out that the national school of judges and prosecutors is a state legal person and does not function in the higher education system, i.e. it is not a public school within the meaning of the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u115	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Can I still do that? Minister, one more question. Senator Sekuła. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u116	Is the way that the graduates of this school take the judge's exams the same as with all the other judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u118	May I ask you to repeat the question? Like with all the other judges? Yes. Graduates of the national school of judges and prosecutors take the exam in accordance with the law, and judges do not take any exam. They may be appointed as judges and submit to the competition if they fulfil the conditions laid down by law. Thank you very much. After graduating from the national school of judges and prosecutors, you can apply for the position of judicial assistant. But how did you... These are two different issues. But how's that for...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u119	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Talking in the O.R.]] He's not a judge... Thank you. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska has also submitted a question. I'm asking the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u120	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister, my question... You're talking about the fact that we need to adopt this bill urgently, because if... Yes. ...by the end of the month it won't work, the money will be gone. Question: "Did you know about this situation that money could be lost, you have a last minute, did you have it earlier, and you could have prepared this project not again for the last moment, but much sooner?" I'm only asking formally because it's absolutely important and we have to do this. But again quickly, again on your knees, again at the last minute, with the knowledge... ...messenger. ...that if not now, the money will be lost... We can't function like this. It's another case like this, and that's just not how it's supposed to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. I ask the Minister to speak. I see there are a lot of senators asking questions. Please report to the secretary's senator. I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u122	Thank you so much for that question. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the draft was filed a few months ago. It is difficult for me to refer to this here and in an exhaustive way to answer why it has not been notified before. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the Law on Higher Education is from 2018 and, therefore, this period between the date of its entry into force and the moment when it was possible to proceed with the work leading to the possible amendment of the Law on the National School of Judges and Prosecutors is not long. Furthermore, I would like to say that there was a discrepancy in the interpretation of the various rules. As far as I know, the head of the school asked for an interpretation of tax matters to the various authorities, institutions and only after these issues were clarified, once it was established that the school's finances could not be cleared on the basis of the existing rules, work was undertaken to amend this law. So that it was not so that it was delayed until the last moment, only between the entry into force of the Law on Higher Education of 2018 and the moment when this project was notified, intensive work was taking place towards interpretation of the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. I will let the senator ask the second question, what is the non-regulatory formula, the second question in the same debate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, just a second. Since I find myself in a state where senators have been allowed to ask additional questions, I cannot now take an assessment that is justified, which is not, so I will allow everyone to ask a second question. Nevertheless, I would like to inform you that I will be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, yeah, I understand, I just want to let you know that it's taking a lot of time. Just... I'm asking the senator to ask you a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u124	This is based only on the answer I received from the Minister. This is another proof that, as a Ministry, you are using the formula of Members' projects that are being inserted at the last minute, and are not really Members' projects, it is just a matter of avoiding the whole path of consultation, agreement and everything... So we have confirmation that this is another project that is prepared by the Ministry and inserted into the formula of the parliamentary project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. However, I'm sorry, I've been informed that any senator can ask as many questions as he wants. Exactly. I was a little bit, I wasn't hiding, he misled the senators' opposition to questions being asked by my colleagues, so I was convinced that this was an objection resulting from... It's a close-up. It's okay. ...from the rules of procedure. But I am in this House for the first time, so forgive me. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u126	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to stress that it was a parliamentary project, not a government project. Exactly. I am presenting here on behalf of the government the position of the government in relation to this bill. But as Deputy Minister of Justice, I am supervising the activities of the national school of judges and prosecutors and I am aware that there have been measures taken to obtain an interpretation of the rules in force and to adapt the interpretation and interpretation of the rules on the national school of judges and prosecutors to the new law on higher education. I know because of my function that such directions of interpretation and interpretation of these provisions were at that time... But the project was a parliamentary project, not a government project, and I stress that once again. At this point, I am presenting my position on behalf of the government on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Senator George Fedorovich to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I know you're awkward, but there's a situation... Some of us have been here many years. If the draft was parliamentary, then the representative of the Members who prepared the draft should appear in the Chamber and not put you in an embarrassing position. I'm just saying what I think I'm saying right now. I keep telling you, you can't do things like that. Because I don't understand everything, just explain to me, because maybe I heard wrong... Is it that the graduate of this school will have the same powers as the graduate of the university, where the law is heading, or will he have a judge's or prosecutor's application after graduating from this school? Does that replace the university? How does this apply to the guidelines of the Ministry of Higher Education? Is this high school or is this some kind of elementary school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. I ask the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The education system for the profession of lawyer and judge is quite complex and multi-stage. The first step is, of course, the completion of higher education in the law. This is the stage of university education. After the stage of university education there is another stage of education, already after university, one that takes place during the course of the application. Exactly. Applications can be of different kinds. There are attorneys' applications, counselors' applications, notarial applications. There is also a judicial application which is implemented at the national school of judges and prosecutors, which is a state legal person. When this application is completed, people who complete the entire stage and pass the final exam, very extensive and quite difficult, will be given the opportunity to apply for the position of judicial assessor in common courts. Once the assesura is finished, they can apply for the position of judge and are then appointed by the President. The path to becoming a judge may also be different, without a judicial application at the national school of judges and prosecutors. In the case of other legal professions, such as a lawyer or legal counsel, as well as in the case of persons with a degree, it is possible to apply directly for a judge's position in a competition after having obtained a specific traineeship in specific professions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Briefly on school funding. It is known that she is not in the system of universities, is a special school for training already existing judges, prosecutors on an ongoing basis, say, complementary knowledge. Yes or no? Maybe I'm wrong, that's why I'm asking. In addition to the subjective grant, which is supposed to be accumulated at this school, the school has a lot of other sources of funding. I would like to know how the school has been financed so far and what is the difference that is introduced in the funding rules. Can you tell us about the amount spent annually on the functioning of this school and the training of its students in quotes, judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the national school of judges and prosecutors is not a special school. It is a school that educates graduates of higher education in law, who are taking part in a judicial or prosecutorial application in this school. So I cannot agree in any way with the statement that it was a special school. As regards issues relating to the revision of the financial rules of this school, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these changes are only related to the revision of the higher education legislation. Namely in accordance with the Law on Higher Education and Science... There was an interpretation gap between the existing school funding rules and the regulations introduced by the new law. It is therefore necessary to lay down the rules for the financing of the school in such a way that it is possible to convert the subjective grant into a subsidy. The subjective subsidy is of course not the same as the subsidy. The difference between them is that the subsidy from its very essence is non-refundable. As soon as the new law on public universities introduced a subsidy as a principle of financing these universities, leaving the provision on the financing of the national school of judges and prosecutors, which is at least equivalent to the public university, the rules have been divergent and have so far been uniform. It was therefore necessary to adapt the regulatory framework. And that is the only motivation when it comes to a law that is being prosecuted in the current legislative process. It was therefore necessary to create a regulation that would allow the school not to be subject to reimbursement rules, such as those in force in the case of subjective grants. As far as the second question is concerned, the details of the national finances of the school of judges and prosecutors, I cannot give a comprehensive answer at this point, because I do not have such data. The contested law deals only with matters relating to the principles of functioning in the context of the new regulation relating to the law on higher education. Therefore, if this is what the senator would have wanted, I am, of course, able to provide that information after obtaining the data.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u135	Thank you. Just ad vocem. I would like to apologize for the special term 'cause it may have a different meaning than 'a school' operating on a different basis. I'm gonna ask for a written reply, because this is gonna be a comparison for me... Of course. ...with funding for other schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u137	Madam Minister, as it happens, we are sitting in a House to which you can run at the age of 30... 35... 35 years... 35 years minimum when it comes to the Senate. As far as the Senate is concerned, 30, as I recall. The age of a presidential candidate is, of course, not less than 35 years old. I'm sure the Minister already knows what I'm gonna ask. But we don't know. Patience is an important virtue, Senator. The age of a candidate for a national school is 35 years. This is a restriction introduced by you last year. We were approached by people aged 36, 37 who wanted to take the judge's application. We know that a judge's profession is associated with the need for professional experience, including life experience. Hence my question: have you analysed these provisions, or is it necessary to maintain this pricesusu 35 years? Shouldn't those rules be a little loosened? Maybe let 36-, 38-year-olds into this app, maybe on a co-financing basis? Whether this solution is compatible with Article. 32, with the principle of non-discrimination with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union? The 35-year limitation is really affecting many people, it is a very important limitation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u139	Thank you for that question, too. The question does not concern the matter covered by the proposed and legislative act in this process. I can only say for my part that the tests used will be carried out, we will try to analyse whether the age actually given is the right limit. As for the profession of the judge, I agree with the senator that it is indeed a profession that requires not only knowledge and professional experience, but also life experience. Therefore, there are age limits that apply not only to candidates for the National School of Judges and Prosecutors The limit of 35 years is also here, which concerns the possibility of running for the various levels of the general court as well as administrative courts, including the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. So as much as age limits in certain situations can be rigid... According to the law, they are rigid and may be in some way harmful in particular situations. Nevertheless, in my view, the age limit is justified here because the education system, as I say, is quite complex, long-term and requiring full professional service. With regard to this question, I would like to say that perhaps it is worth doing some research, some steps towards a possible shifting of this border or allowing exceptions. So that I think that the question is absolutely justified and perhaps we will analyze it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u140	Thank you very much. Do you have another question for the senator? If not, the next senator to ask the question is Senator Janusz Gromek. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u141	Just out of curiosity, I'm gonna ask as a teacher because I heard something. This school and this curiosity I want to satisfy. Tell me how many applicants or students or what it's called in a year. They're not students because this isn't a college. I do. Well, applicants. Thank you very much, Senator. Very... No, no, this is... How long do these trainings last and if 100% Those people who have completed their training go to the courts, to the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you for that question. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u143	Thank you very much. I am not prepared to provide detailed data in this regard, but, of course, I can provide this information after they have been established. All I can say is that graduates who successfully finish their education and get a positive grade from the exam are guaranteed in court as court assessors. This year I think that the details will be provided by the school headmaster, and there were probably 70 places, 70 graduates this year, but he certainly starts more, because due to the relatively high level of education and the need to rank individual colloquiums and stages of education, some of the students do not finish this school. These persons are employed in court as court assessors, and after a certain period of time, assesura may apply for judges' positions. But the seats are guaranteed, i.e. the successful completion of the university, the national school of judges and prosecutors, guaranteeing a place in court, the position of the court's assailant in common court. Thank you. And these places every time... I would just like to add that on behalf of the Ministry of Justice every year, every year when a certain year of applicants finishes school, these places are secured and guaranteed. In addition, I would like to say that these candidates also have the right to indicate where they would like to rule, which, of course, is taken into account as far as possible by staff and after taking into account the burden of the courts. These things are quite thoroughly analyzed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alicia Chybick's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions. One question will be the continuation of what Senator Krzysztof Brejza asked. Namely, I think that this limit of 35 years is absolutely hurtful, and yet a little sexist, because it is mainly women who will become pregnant after their studies, who exceed this thirty-five year of age. These are the people who apply to our offices for help and who also applied to the ombudsman. I'm sure the Minister has received letters from him on this matter. This provision should be removed from this bill. And that's the continuation of that question. And the second question is this. You said that this school is equal to education at the university of law. My question is what teachers, academics, are working at this school, because, as you know, you are not allowed to combine work at public university with work at the second public university and also non-public university at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u147	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! If I've been understood that this school, the national school of judges and prosecutors, is equivalent to a public university or equivalent to a public university, then I apologize. This isn't a public school, and she doesn't educate students in the right direction. This is a university that educates law school graduates, which is, in other words, it carries out a judicial and prosecutorial application. Therefore, the law on higher education does not apply to this university. For this reason, there was an interpretative discrepancy in the financing of this national legal person. There is a separate law that regulates its statute, application rules, as well as the rules of conducting training and lectures. In addition, I would like to add that this school does not only carry out judicial and prosecutorial applications, but also educates and trains judges, i.e. this is a school which carries out continuous training in various areas of content, not only in Poland but also abroad, as regards judges ruling in Poland and prosecutors. Thus, the scope of the National School of Judges and Prosecutors is not limited solely to carrying out judicial and prosecutorial applications. It also carries out various types of training for judges and prosecutors. As far as lecturers are concerned, there are very many of them, they are connected to various branches of the law. They are both persons who perform various legal professions as well as those who have scientific degrees. They are also judges, including judges of general and administrative courts who are seconded to the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office, because, according to the General Court Law, it is possible to delegate a judge as a lecturer either to a temporary delegation or to a temporary delegation, or simply to lecture at that school.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the list of senators wishing to ask the question has been exhausted. I don't see anyone else wanting to ask a question. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. As I can see, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, no one has signed up for the discussion. There will therefore be no discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, High Izbo, we proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 29 and the report of the Commission In print No 29 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has examined the draft Act on Individual Income Tax and the Act on Corporate Income Tax on 8 January. The bill is short and, I think, relatively simple. It consists of 3 articles, the third of which concerns the entry into force of the law. The first two articles concern the Personal and Corporate Income Tax Act. They provide that all kinds of benefits, subsidies received from the Low Emission Transport Fund are exempt from tax, whether from the income of natural persons or from legal persons. The bill is not controversial, but during the committee's work it sparked a discussion. E.g. Attention has been drawn to the fact that the law is likely to enter into force around mid-February, and the rule is that income tax laws should enter into force by 30 November of the preceding year. However, since it is a law favourable to taxpayers, it was not a reservation. This discussion, which I am talking about, was attended by the senators, but also by representatives of trade unions, the Association of Automotive Industry and the National Tax Advisory Council. The bill we are talking about is written by Members. This is not a government law, it is a parliamentary law, and as such it was not subject to consultation. And that also triggered a discussion. A representative of the National Tax Advisory Council said that the bill was indeed good, but it was possible to resolve tax matters more comprehensively, he said, among others. on depreciation. But most of the discussion was caused by the issue of emissions, CO2 emissions, which is actually a little bit on the side of the bill. Many have spoken on this subject, even proposals have been made to convene a special committee meeting on this subject or a meeting of several committees together, those dealing with issues, among others. air pollution. There were suggestions to organise such a meeting also for the Committee on the Environment, for the Committee on Infrastructure, because then we could talk more about these issues. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I would like to recommend to the High House that the bill be adopted in the version presented by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u150	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. No. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes? I would like to ask Minister Adam Gazwada to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to emphasise very strongly that the proposed law on amending tax laws is fully supported by the government. It is part of a series of activities aimed at improving air quality and protecting the environment. The Low carbon Transport Fund is implementing these challenges in many respects. Support under this fund will include initiatives related to the development of electromobility, but also the development of the entire infrastructure that will allow for the full use of zero-emission vehicles. The key action of this fund will be to support the purchase by citizens and entrepreneurs of low-carbon vehicles. A positive assessment of the tax exemption proposal for entrepreneurs should also be made. The planned mobilisation of this fund for the whole group will take place this year. This will de facto allow for a real increase in support for companies that will invest in this new area of the economy. I would also like to stress that, in the opinion of the government, the proposed amendment will allow for an even more efficient use of the Fund's funds, because the change including the CIT and PIT exemption will allow more people or companies to benefit from this support measure. I would also like to provide some information. As at the end of August last year, Poland had 1 thousand 128 charging points with normal power, 483 charging points with high power and 28 CNG filling stations. It should be noted that in 2016 we started from 290 charging points with normal power and only 34 charging points with high power. This means that practically three times the number of charging points has increased. These changes in tax laws seem to launch initiatives that will allow for increasing on the one hand the number of zero- or low-carbon vehicles purchased, but on the other hand will also allow the use of these resources for fuel production in the future. And since we know that the main Western automotive companies are working very intensively on new technologies, the use of this opportunity by Polish entrepreneurs and the future production of fuels that allow not only for low-carbon production and the use of low-carbon cars, but also for energy storage, is such a very good direction of action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes? You're welcome, Senator Richard Świlski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u153	Minister, I know we're talking about taxes today, but Prime Minister Morawiecki once promised a million electric vehicles, then withdrew from this declaration and has now stood on 600 000 vehicles by 2025. How are you going to do that? I know we're talking about taxes today, yeah, but it's also a question of connected elements. That's one thing. Second, do you have any idea? And if you don't, maybe someone else will answer that question. At what stage is the design of the Polish electric car? That's my second question. And the third question, actually strictly tax. Once again, you're talking about a special-purpose fund. Because that's the fund you're presenting today, the foundation of this fund. This is a typical departure from the spending rule, bypassing the budget spending rule. Can you tell us how many of these special-purpose funds you've set up in the last four years?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to answer the questions he has asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u155	The company, which was established to prepare and create a model of the Polish electric car, carries out its activities. This should be addressed, as it is. It was also mentioned at the Senate Committee meeting for such an additional discussion. This is not covered by today's legislative amendment. As far as the Low Carbon Transport Fund is concerned, I can only say that the fund, which is generated by the issue fee and by the substitute fee, is a fund which in the coming years will use funds of PLN 2 billion 768 million. This is a seven-year perspective. And from this fund we want to meet the needs that are being met in most Member States of the European Union. And the change proposed by the originators and applicants, namely Members, a law which exempts PIT and CIT, as I have already said, will result in more beneficiaries being able to benefit from this support this year and in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question you ask is Senator Stanisław Ożog. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, a quick question. Is it true that calling electric cars, powered by zero-emission electric cars, is a kind of abuse, because the production of electricity... that in total CO2 emissions into the atmosphere are greater than in the case of diesel-powered cars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u159	Yes, definitely, Mr. Senator, indeed. That's why this fund is starting. Sorry about the colloquialism. This year, our goal was not supporting very expensive units and very expensive vehicles which will be driven by de facto energy not entirely from renewable sources. We also wanted to extend this support to all those elements of our economy's development that would allow the production of really low- or zero-emission fuels, future fuels, without also excluding hydrogen, and use it in such a way as to increase the number of beneficiaries. The reduction in this tax is therefore also intended to serve this purpose. However, this is indeed a very serious problem because the issue of reducing emissions... The use of electric vehicles does not contribute in a simple and unambiguous way to reducing emissions. Because the basic question is how we're going to produce energy that's going to be used by these electric vehicles. Therefore, to create a wider range of support opportunities, also for vehicles using fuels other than a battery energy storage, these are the directions that we want to support very strongly. And I assure you that several large Polish companies, including companies from this raw materials and energy base, work very intensively This is at a stage, I would say, even the final fuel production, which will also be used in the future in these low-carbon vehicles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the senator have any further questions on this matter? No, thank you. Thank you very much. I don't see senators... [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Senator Zdzisław Pupa. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, are these different informations, publications, which indicate that the energy balance of carbon dioxide is much higher for low-carbon cars on batteries than for example. in the case of traditional vehicles with petrol engines or diesel engines... Are you familiar with such studies that indicate this balance of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere? This is where we have to consider... Total. Yeah, holistic. Battery production must also be included here. . cadmium, nickel, lithium, which requires a large amount of emission energy. Besides, the need to replace these batteries every once in a while causes This is the result of the information I've read. That this emission balance is at the disadvantage of these supposedly low-carbon vehicles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u163	Mr. Senator, here we are entering into such an academic discussion about how the development of the automotive industry, so to speak, is set to our expectations to protect our environment and air, especially where we are dealing with public transport. The use of electric vehicles, electric buses or CNG-using buses there is a very appropriate direction. The use of this type of energy in these units will allow for flexible storage of this energy in the future. After all, these units will allow large amounts of energy to be stored when this energy is in surplus. Besides, these vehicles drive around the centers of our cities, settlements, and they will not cause emissions at all where this low emissions are highest. Indeed, a comprehensive balance sheet must be taken into account here. and the one resulting from individual transport, and the one which is primarily the result of systemic changes in public transport. Today I got the information that entrepreneurs who have won the invitation to tender for the operation of public transport asked how to accelerate the construction of CNG charging stations, fuel supply stations for alternative multi-purpose vehicles. These are the things that will also be implemented with the support of this fund. As I said, 3 regulations regulate it. The first regulation concerns natural persons, the second regulation concerns companies, and the third regulation allows support for all those installations that will be used... If I could quote here... This is the case: collective transport with infrastructure for local government units and public transport operators; research, development and implementation; support for biofuel producers; port charges; support for vehicle and component manufacturers. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. There are no more calls. I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up. I see no one signed up for the discussion. I understand there are no votes in the discussion. The discussion is closed. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The text of the Act is contained in print 40 and the report of the committee In print No 40 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present a report on the case adopted by the Sejm on 9 January this year. Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, our committee took note of this law, discussed it, examined the provisions that were proposed in the Sejm. We considered it to be part of this law adopted on 9 January to amend it. What's the bill about? The bill is relatively simple. It has been passed... The Act, which has so far been in force, assumed that as of 1 January 2020, businessmen will be able to account with the tax office by submitting special reports of PIT-36 and 37 But in such a formula that the tax office will prepare tax reports for individuals conducting business activities, this business activity not organised in the form of companies, companies, public limited liability companies. This solution was indeed intended to facilitate, simplify the submission of these reports to businesses, most often small, and to ensure that these reports were initially prepared by the tax authorities. If the citizen, the trader would not raise objections to these documents, then they, without any amendments, would become those final reports. Of course, the entrepreneur could change them, improve them, provide other information, according to his best knowledge, so that they were as correct as possible. So in practice he could have made a choice between a paper document and an electronic document, but prepared by the tax authorities. Such a solution, as you remember, was adopted for individuals and for certain sales, mainly related to securities, i.e. it is the tax office that prepares these reports for the citizens. And it's already working, it's been taken well as a good solution. The current year was to be the year in which the rules on natural persons engaged in economic activities enter into force. But the government, following the decision of the Sejm, withdrew from this solution. In the explanatory memorandum presented to us by the Minister at the committee meeting, it was stated that the main argument for withdrawing from this accounting method, which I mentioned here, is that at the moment, the Ministry of Finance is working on another way of documenting and accounting taxes by natural persons engaged in economic activities. Except that this is the initial stage of work on this document, on this way of accounting. Finally, it can be put into effect in 2021 or even in 2022, yes? That's what the minister said. Of course, our committee does not deny that a better solution can be proposed, which will be even more business-friendly. But most of the committee felt that it might not be worthwhile to withdraw from this solution, which has been in force so far. ? understanding that in this case it cannot be implemented this year And that maybe it's enough if for a transitional period we suspend the functioning of the Act as it has been so far and postpone the date of entry into force of the previous solution for 1 January of next year. So it seems that this is a solution that is very mild, friendly to citizens, because they know that there is a prospect of a good solution, maybe a year shifted, and if this is generally any new change, it's a maximum, let's say, two years. But all this time this solution, which was adopted some time ago, is shown as a great success of the Ministry of Finance. We, as it were, kindly approach those projects which the Ministry of Finance is preparing, say that we do not agree to withdraw this solution, but that the Ministry should not have any problems, we propose that these regulations enter into force on 1 January next year. If, by then, the Ministry is able to prepare these better solutions that the Minister mentioned, nothing will happen that, when adopting this new law, the one that would apply today will be removed. Hence the proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to move the solutions so far by a year. So we're amending the Seym Law, which said that the government is pulling out of all the solutions that have been made so far. I ask the High House to support our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u166	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators have any questions? Senators may submit a request to the Senator of the rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Do any of you have that question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Today we have a representative of the government, undersecretary of the state of Jan Sarnowski. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government is negatively assessing the amendment tabled by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The government declares that it will launch a service to provide tax returns to entrepreneurs within the framework of the e-Tax Office project, which the Ministry of Finance is currently working on. The government's proposal concerns only the withdrawal of the statutory obligation of the tax administration to introduce this particular business service within the statutory deadline. The part of e-services dedicated to entrepreneurs is constantly improved in such a way that the statements made available to entrepreneurs are as complete as possible. I would like to stress that the provision of new e-services to taxpayers does not require a statutory mandate. An example of this functionality is the e-declaration system, which allows the submission of a tax statement by electronic means. A growing number of entities benefit from settlement via the e-declaration system. The largest increase in their number was observed just last year by the administration from 9 million in 2018 to as much as 13 million in 2019. e-accounts are also increasingly popular among PIT clearing companies. Out of 2.5 million of them, 4/5 chose e-accounts, and only 1/5 settled on paper. The reason why the government does not support the proposal to set a new deadline for the implementation of the service is that, while the new service is a new element of a comprehensive e-Tax Office in the Ministry of Finance, the precise timetable for the provision by the Ministry of Finance of further segments of the service is not yet established. The e-Tax Office programme is a new tax administration service whereby a service similar to Internet banking will be made available to the taxpayer. Through a dedicated name account, the taxpayer will be able to pay on-line PIT, CIT and VAT, tax fees and parking tickets. He will also be able to observe the balance of his payments, the history of operations and will have access to submitted declarations, documents, JPK files, information about registered online cash registers and e-paragons. He will also be able to apply for a certificate e.g. about not paying taxes and get them automatically online. In addition to the taxpayer's e-account, separate services are also planned for payers, agents, bailiffs and notaries. The e-Tax Office programme will cover a much larger number of taxpayers than further expanding your e-PITs service, exempting all IRS customers from the need to handle a large number of formalities physically in the window, and will provide them with the comfort of keeping track of the situation at the IRS. Work on the e-Tax Office It's already started. The provision of further services will start in the middle of this year and will be completed in 2022. The point of the proposed change lies in making the administration more flexible with the provision of further e-services so that priority is given to those that will affect the largest number of taxpayers and will relieve as much as possible of them as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u168	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Kazimierz Klein came to the questions. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about that. Of course, I am pleased that all the solutions you are planning and want to introduce are really attractive and I hope that they will actually be introduced. But the trial you're proposing here is due to run until 2002... By 2022. By 2022. It's two more years. It's probably not much and it's a lot. For some it will be close, and for others it will be a distant perspective. What does that mean in practice? If these solutions are put in place, will the trader be able to make a declaration as proposed in the previous law? Will the tax office fill out an initial declaration for the entrepreneur? This small businessman, a single-person company, a businessman... However, will she have to prepare this declaration, although electronically, but traditionally, or alone? Well, two or three years ago, when we passed a bill that you're repealing right now, this solution was shown as a huge success, something that would make life easier for non-business citizens. As well as natural persons engaged in business activities. Are you changing the concept of the proposal you're talking about? Why do we write and make laws at all, since you say that no law is needed at all, because this can be done as part of the declarations and declarations of the tax administration? Maybe there's more laws that we shouldn't make at all, because it would be enough to have a normal, simpler administration. It's kind of a small comment. I put the question at the beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u170	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u171	The president asked two questions. I'll refer to them in order. Indeed, the law... The regulation of this problem was unfortunately a necessity, because it was due to the fact that the time limit for the provision of individual services had to be correlated with the time limits for influencing the administration of PIT-11, i.e. information on income generated by employees sent to us by employers. Hence, a certain timing had to be included in the bill, and indeed it had to be dealt with in this way. The truth is also that, while the introduction of this service required some legislative changes, it did not require any legislative changes That wasn't necessary. To set a specific date for the entry into force of further functionalities. As for the second question, your e-PIT has not changed, and the purpose of the administration is still to ensure that when the administration as a whole has some information about the taxpayer, the tax administration does not require the taxpayer to send it again in a self-fulfiled declaration. There are certain categories of taxable persons, in particular those who are employees who account together with the spouse who have children for whom the tax office, using the information currently available, is able to fill in the tax return on its own. With the help of 2 clicks, the taxpayer can accept this and then is completely exempt from the obligation to complete PIT printing. Last year 7 million Poles took advantage of this possibility. There is also a great deal of information about entrepreneurs, in this case clearing PITs, and they also at the subsequent stages of the implementation of the service, this time e-tax office It will be made available as part of a completed tax return. Still...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u172	Then I'm asking the senator to ask you one more question. Unless someone else volunteered... There's Senator Pavel Arndt. Yeah, and that's very important... Well, then I don't know if I can perform in front of him... Then maybe the senator... Because it's a supplement, Mr. Senator, isn't it? Yes. Then I'm gonna ask you to fill in the questions, and then I'm gonna ask the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u173	I would also like to ask whether this new solution you are proposing will also be that this tax office will, so to speak, also fill in and prepare for the entrepreneur or not. And the second question is: what is the degree of progress in this new solution that you are talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u174	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u175	As I mentioned, the schedule for sharing further functionalities, this time so-called. The tax office is currently in the process of being implemented within the Ministry of Finance and will be announced in the coming weeks, in the perspective of the 1st quarter of this year. As I said, the service itself and registered accounts should be made available in the middle of this year, and at this stage it is difficult to say which ones will be made available to taxpayers at this first stage when they are opened.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u176	Thank you very much. Senator Paul Arndt would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u177	Thank you very much. Minister, there is no doubt that services should be developed, they will be developed, and that is good. But nothing would prevent this service that we are talking about today, for small entrepreneurs, from entering into force this year so that it concerns 2019. During the discussions in the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Minister explained that there were some difficulties with the timely introduction of this service, he said, among others. about the difficulties or about the high workload of the Ministry of Finance at the end of the year, with a lower rate of personal income tax, about the tax for persons under the age of twenty-six years. But in my opinion, actually on this problem, it seems that the company of Critical Applications should be working. Tell me what this company is doing right now, why she wasn't able to handle it, it seems, not a very difficult task. The company was introduced to our market with a big bang, Prime Minister Morawiecki... then Minister of Finance, Mrs Czerwińska was very positive about this company, but then this company did not have the best opinions, among others. The Supreme Audit Board has been critical of this company's activities. Tell me what this company is doing today and why it has failed to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u178	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u179	First of all, I would like to start with a correction. These programs First of all, your e-PiTs, second of all, e-Tax Offices are tasks carried out by the Ministry of Finance's own forces, coordinated by the Department of Informationization of the Ministry of Finance, also, but to a lesser extent, using others, say, substrates of technical forces, which consist of analytical, programming potential of the Ministry of Finance. This potential includes external companies, which provide the Ministry of Finance with certain functionalities, as well as the company of Critical Applications, but a number of tasks are carried out by programmers employed at the Ministry of Finance. As for current tasks and projects carried out by the company Critical Applications I am prepared to reply to the senator in writing, but I can say that the company, according to its tasks, deals with the current programming service of the Ministry of Finance, in particular concerning the analysis of JPK files, so-called. an engine of analyses of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. software used to identify tax carousel, artificial trading, empty invoices.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u180	Thank you very much. Are there any other... There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u181	I would also ask for information about the company's activities of Critical Applications, including how big this company is, how many people it employs, and how many wages are paid in this company, because this is one of the reasons why you are unable to get employees to carry out electronic tasks in the whole tax administration sector. So how it works in terms of wages and income, etc. to the extent that so far... And again, what are the achievements of this company?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u182	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u183	Of course, we'll share... Yes? There was a request... Then you'll also make available to the senator... Of course. We'll order it at the Ministry of Finance, prepare the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u184	Do you still... There you go, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, a cordial request for written information regarding the functioning of Critical Applications. According to the information you gave to the Prime Minister, the point of creating these Critical Applications and the company... This means that the failure to create these Critical Applications would result in losses of about PLN 3 billion per month. I would like to know if such savings are and how these Critical Applications work. I would like to have full knowledge of this, because the information we have received shows that it does not work at all. We therefore ask for this information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u186	Of course, we'll prepare.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u187	Any of you guys... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also ask for this information in writing. And I'd like to be more specific about what they're specifically... well, maybe not so many programs as the achievements of this company. It means simply: the task that has been carried out, what savings have been made, what could be achieved through the work of this company. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u189	Thank you very much. Are there any other... And one last question. It wasn't supposed to be. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u190	I'm sorry. Please also tell us what the State, the Ministry, is interfering with this law with the solution that we have proposed, i.e. so that there is a transitional period to postpone the entry into force of these provisions if it is not possible to implement the programme you are talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u191	The main objective of the Ministry of Finance, particularly as regards the provision of further e-government services, is to cover as many customers as possible, to make it available to the largest number of stakeholders, with particular regard to those who need the most such support, especially workers, non-specialised entities. Taking into account the fact that the provision of settlements under the "e-PIT" programme will concern 2.5 million PIT clearing companies, of which 2 million are already fulfilling e-Corporates, decisions must also be made in the Ministry of Finance as to whether more priority should be given to services for tens of millions of stakeholders, administrative clients, including the e-Tax Office, e-Taxes, individual services.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u192	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Since there are no questions, I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Paul Arndt, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody's come forward for discussion, which I understand is not going to be a discussion. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, thank you. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, since we will be returning to the first item of the agenda, I am ordering a five-minute recess to bring the representatives of the Ministry and invited guests to the meeting. If the country that is not in the Chamber wants to take part in the debate, please. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 25 to 14 minutes 30]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. Welcome to the guest room: ombudsman, Professor Adam Bodnar... [[Applause]] ...President of the Supreme Court, Mr Stanisław Zabłocki... [[Applause]] ...and vice president of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. Janusz Drachal. [[Applause]] I also welcome representatives of the Ministry of Justice: Minister Sebastian Kaleta and Minister... It's not written... I'm so glad to see you. Would the invited guests like to speak on the bill under consideration? I ask the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Stanisław Zabłocki, to speak. I take it I can start? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u193	Dear Marshal! Dear Mr. Senator, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much on behalf of the first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Margaret Gersdorf, and on behalf of his own for inviting him to this debate and for allowing us to speak. I will give you my basic statement with three brief introductory remarks. First of all, I will only talk about law, because political conditions and references are completely foreign to me. The only political element in my speech will be that I am speaking in the Senate forum, i.e. in the Chamber, where, I say, politics is happening. However, I will even try to forget about this and, speaking to you, address you as citizens, not as representatives of various political parties. In this situation, you cannot count on my speech to be e.g. polemics with one of yesterday's speeches, based in turn on only political elements, and abstracted from legal conditions. It's a good policy to talk about politics, but it's the right position for a judge not to go into polemics. However, I am fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, that we, the judges, are very much wanted to drag into the whirlwind of political struggles, that many media, many politicians are also trying to present our attitude in the last days, weeks or months... It's a completely warped image. The concern of judges with regard to the principles of justice, constitutional and constitutional values, which concern the principle of three divisions of power, the independence of courts and the independence of judges, is not politics, but it is the duty of every judge who is at the heart of the text of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, a duty arising out of concern that anyone who faces a court may exercise the right to a fair and transparent examination of the case by a competent, independent and impartial court. Therefore, I would speak in the same critical and alarming moments, regardless of which side of the so-called. political scenes would be inspired by these solutions, and regardless of whose voices it would be accepted. At this point, it is worth a promotion to signal that also the fight for this judge's principle of law is to prohibit judges. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give up this part of the speech from hermetic legal language, which after nearly 50 years of reading, analyzing and evaluating legal texts with such a hermetic language, will not be easy for me, but maybe all the dangers of legal structures that I will be able to refer to will be presented in such a way that their essence is clear and clear, first of all, to the illegals. I will also, despite the fact that the legal act has aroused extreme emotions in the legal environment, please note that in the legal environment, not only in the judicial environment, but also in the legal environment, in the legal environment, notaries, prosecutors, law enforcement workers, tried to keep their emotions in check without using the so-called ones. the public circulation of the names of this law, such as the Mummy Act or the Repressive Act. I will limit myself to the dry term "Procedated Act" or "Law of 20 December." Finally, thirdly and lastly, in view of the time frame, which, even with a very high level of hospitality and understanding on your part, I should not exceed, at this stage of my participation in the proceedings of the High House, I will refer to the most important solutions, to the most controversial constructions, and this, using such a figurative figure, as it were from the bird's eye, without referring to the details which, after all, have been analysed, and this in an in-depth analysis, in the extensive opinion submitted by the Supreme Court to Parliament, which I fully support. However, I will, of course, remain at your disposal after this phase of the speech, which we call spontaneous in the legislative process, possibly in the so-called. Question phase. I will even admit that I hope that maybe some details, some details and some doubts I will be able to explain just in the form of answers to questions. 'Cause, you know, like... In this basic statement, I will not be able to fit as important matters as the relationship between the statutory definition of the judge and the mode of his appointment, and whether, indeed, the attempt, taken yesterday in this Chamber, to separate the definition of the judge from the mode of appointment of the judge can be effective. In addition, I will not be able to explain, in this essential part of the statement, how this is due to cultural differences or so-called differences. legal cultures in different legal systems may in principle pose a threat to one-sounding wording and in other legal systems they do not have to pose a threat, even if they are the calculator of those which are dangerous solutions. It's just like the so-called. the regulatory context of the legislation is functioning or not functioning. Nor will I fit what is very important, namely the answer to the question whether it is indeed in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November. r., in this famous, cited as the mantra of point 133, the thought is that in no mode can the status of judge be checked if a nomination has already taken place. In our legal system, it is obtained from the hands of the President. Finally, I will also fail, although this is an equally important aspect, to defy certain myths about the alleged complete irresponsibleness of judges before 2018. But this may be possible in another phase of my participation in the debate in this House. Now, ladies and gentlemen, going to the basic part, I'll start with a quote. The judicial authority cannot be exercised either by the legislative authority or by the king, but by the magistrates at that end established and chosen, of course, this text is Article VIII of our first constitution, known as the Government Act of 3 May 1791, and even more widely as the Constitution of 3 May. Already at that time, 230 years ago almost, it was well understood in Poland that courts and tribunals are to be separate and independent from others. Did she remember that and actually understood the majority of the Sejm by adopting the Law of 20 December 2019? I have huge doubts about this. And as declared in the preamble to this law, the need to respect the three divisions of the authorities I see as a procedure, in a delicate way, deceptive and wailful. If there were a solution in the further part of the law, though to some extent I repeat: to some extent, they were in line with the noble assumptions expressed in the preamble, the legal world would accept this law with recognition. But it's exactly the opposite. The specific solutions contradict the stated objectives. For this reason too, this law is grossly contrary to the constitutional international standards of the independence of courts, the independence of judges, and thus is a bad and even harmful law. Let's bow down, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking you to do this. The provisions constituting, as it were, the keystones of this law. I call them supremacists, because, in relation to their content, there is a whole series of provisions which constitute a specific technological sequence, leading first to the bans laid down and then to the very strict disciplinary responsibility of judges, liability so strict that, for example. with regard to the Supreme Court Judge, a single sanction shall be provided for In the form of a deposit of office. It is appropriate to add here, by the way, that such construction of repressive provisions, and disciplinary provisions certainly belong to this category, when only one sanction is foreseen for a specific offence, i.e. in the so-called legal language. a sanction strictly marked, and where no margin of assessment is left to the judge of that offence as to the severity of the sanctions at his disposal and after which he may reach, such rules are in themselves contrary to the rules of the fair trial provided for in the Treaties. For then the legislative authority enters the area of judicial authority, then it replaces the judge, because since the judge leaves no choice, providing for a sanction by an absolutely designated law, the judicial authority is exercised. But let's get back to those choppers. I'm thinking about art. 1 point 20a amending Article. 55 law on the system of common courts, Article. 2 pcs 6 amending Article. 29 Supreme Court Act, Art. 3 pcs 1 amending Article. 23 law on the regime of military courts and Article. 4 pcs 1a amending Article. 4 laws on the system of administrative courts. All these provisions are constructed so-called. a statutory definition of the judge, providing, in contrast to the content still in force e.g. Article 2 55th Law on the system of common courts and its counterparts in other laws of the state, that the judge is a person appointed to this position by and before the President of the Republic of Poland. That's it, period. They therefore do so in complete isolation from the constitutional regulations contained in Article. 179 constitutions, and in isolation from other statutory regulations, which provide for the so-called. material reasons to be met in order for a particular person to be a judge. In these provisions, the only and sufficient condition is the formal basis for the appointment of the President. Meanwhile, as has been said many times, Article. 179 of the Constitution provides that the Judges shall be appointed by the President of the Republic at the request of the National Judicial Council. The Constitution therefore provides for 2 formal conditions: the one referred to in the amended rules, but also the one, as necessary as the first one, which is related to the role conferred by the legislator, not by anyone else, but by the legislator, the National Council of Courts. In the said provisions of the ordinary law adopted, the role of the National Judicial Council was not only marginalised but completely eliminated at constitutional level. Shouldn't it really cause the highest amazement and anxiety to use such a procedure, which by means of ordinary laws tries to interfere with the content of the highest law of the Republic of Poland The Constitution adopted by the National Assembly and adopted by the people in a general referendum? Is it really possible to ignore the constitutional rule that the judge is a person appointed as a result of the joint action of 2 bodies, and the President, and the National Judicial Council? Is the ordinary legislator trying to define the judge, or actually redrafting the definition of the judge, because we have it in the current article. 55 law on the system of universal courts and its equivalent in other laws of the general courts, is it possible to disregard the clear constitutional statement that the President cannot act without the appropriate request of the council? Though, of course, the will of the latter That's my opinion. It is not enough for the proposed candidate to become a judge, as it was once held and which brought the President's role to the role of such a notary when a judge was appointed. Indeed, the answer to both of these questions must be a negative answer. This is the result of the wording of the laws, which has also been raised on several occasions. I know that because I've been trying to follow the Senate committee's deliberations. . and practically unanimously was also raised in the opinions of all experts, i.e. that, theoretically, any person who would feel the will to become a judge could act without the procedure laid down in Article. 179 of the Constitution, to take a vow from it and make a nomination, and consequently could count on it to be appointed in such a way. But, worse than that, it will not be possible to control it, because of the rules that remain in it so-called. The technological sequence I've already talked about is that no judge would be in power. either ex officio or at the request of the parties, in the course of proceedings, whether appeal or cassation, or e.g. in connection with the case-by-case proceedings for the exclusion of a Judge To seek an answer to the question whether a judge whose status did not correspond to the procedure laid down in Article was in the composition of which the judgment was controlled. 179 constitutions. If, by correctly reading the hierarchy of legal sources and its obligations under Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 and Article 1 8 Constitution, the Judge Controller Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of also due to the fact that every Polish judge is a European judge at the same time, as you have already discussed many times. However, he would have done so, i.e. He would attempt such a check, he would put himself under disciplinary responsibility, under the threat of the severest sanctions. We have the right to ask what the legislator wants to achieve by applying such a procedure. Unfortunately, there are very disturbing answers to this question. They are very disturbing, above all, because we all remember very different ways of understanding the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And remembering this very different understanding of the article. 187, we all still have the right to discuss whether the conditions for the first stage of this appointing procedure are fulfilled, in view of the manner in which the new National Council of Courts is shaped, are in line with the provisions of the Basic Law. But it's not the only thing that's important here. It is also important at the level of ordinary laws. Do you know why? E.g. because of the so-called secrecy. a letter of support and non-disclosure, despite the final judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court ordering them to be made available. Against this background, there are doubts as to whether the National Judicial Council is able to carry out its constitutional tasks, to which it belongs to uphold the independence of the courts, the independence of judges or not. [[Applause]] Moreover, in its judgment of 5 December 2019, the Supreme Court, following an analysis which took into account only those factors which the Court of Justice of the European Union referred to in its judgment of 19 November, concluded that the National Court of Justice was not an impartial and independent body from the legislative and executive authority. Is it, therefore, intended to minimise and practically eliminate the constitutional role of the National Judicial Council in the appointing of judges? If this were in fact the intention of adopting these four standard rules, it would constitute an extremely dangerous reversal of the clocks of history far back. Political power would again be in an unlimited manner, including with regard to judicial authority. Well, we all remember how it was in the Roman Empire during the period of absolute monarchy. Gaius Iulius Caesar Germanicus, commonly known as Caligula, appointed his favorite horse Incitatus as a priest, and he was supposedly even going to entrust him with the office of consul before his covert death. Such a nomination could be made at that time, because the power of Caesar was basically not limited to anything. As the Roman Juris Ulpian wrote, princes legibus solutus est, the emperor is not bound by the law. Fortunately, however, we do not live in the ancient Roman Empire. We live in a democratic, modern state in which power belongs to the nation, which does not mean that those who shout the loudest will do the will of this nation. [[Applause]] I have a really hot request for ladies and senators. I would ask you not to judge what I'm saying, at least at this stage, because as a judge, I find it very awkward. This is a very similar request to the one I led in 2017, when I had the opportunity to be in this House when I received this honour. Remember, some of you remember that I made such a request to you at the time. Just as a judge. I feel awkward. Neither the President has the enchanted pencil, nor does the Sejm have the power to assign the head of the Polish state to the decision-making of the State, I say this, while remaining truly with the highest respect for both these offices. Who may or may not be a judge if the conditions of Article are not met. 179 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to be well understood: I do not want to assume, and I do not assume, that it is the current President-in-Office, or anyone else who holds this office in the future, who nominates a judge without a request from the National Judicial Council or takes a vow, for example. from a person who does not have a higher education in law. That's not what I'm saying. My point is that the mere adoption of a law containing the definition of a judge standing in an obvious conflict with the rule that we are always talking about, the constitutional rank, is simply unacceptable to the existing hierarchy of sources of Polish law. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the rules adopted by the Sejm, which are not a feeling, that is an irresistible conclusion. They remain in this technological relationship with these integrally related regulations, which I called the jocks. It is characteristic that the other provisions have also been practically identically introduced into all 4 laws, both to the one governing the system of universal courts and to those governing the system of administrative courts, military courts and even to the one governing the system of the Supreme Court. There is the highest degree of fear that these solutions to which I am going at the moment will virtually almost irreversibly eliminate the independent judicial authority in Poland, the essence of which is the exercise of justice. And as far as justice is concerned, it would be a cliché, of course, to say that it is a very responsible and difficult task, but it is no longer a cliché. Only the approximation of a state which is not lawyers, a very important truth, a very important fact, that this exercise of justice cannot be carried out if the judge does not leave the basic instrument, namely the freedom to assess the legal dispute before him. To do justice is different, as the ancients used to say, to assign to everyone who is entitled to it, suum cuique Tribue, not to read without any reflection the rows of letters written in the bill. How can we do this justice? How can this be done if the Act decrees that one of the entities which is legally bound and should exercise it, that is to say, public authorities, in an important area of practically legal judgements of the court does not rely on it? Consider, ladies and gentlemen, whether such a situation constitutes a violation of both the principle of legalism in the article. 7 the Constitution and the principles of equality vis-à-vis the law set out in Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. Please consider whether such a danger does not entail the changes envisaged accordingly: in Article. 1 pkt 19 of the Law on the General Courts, that is, the provision in which it was added to the law on the system of common courts a new Article. 42a §1 in Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) Article 2 (6) in which Article 2 is inserted. 29 Law on the Supreme Court new §2, in Art. 3 point 2 adding a new article to the Military Courts Act. 23a and finally Article 23a. 4 pkt 2b of the contested law adding in the law on the administrative system of the new §1a. That is, whether such a danger does not entail those provisions which prohibit the questioning and, as a result, the investigation by the courts, by absolutely all the courts, because all 4 laws have been modified in this respect, I quote: the power of courts and tribunals, constitutional state bodies and the control and protection bodies of the law. I, of course, am a man of good faith, believe me, and I want to believe that the purpose of this solution is not creation. Well, it's a fashionable term right now that I'm gonna use it, just in a slightly different context. The extraordinary castes of these... Exactly. ...who are not subject to any control. Although such rules can serve such temptations, who can guarantee today, as this power will be understood by disciplinary authorities authorized to stigmatize judges who violate such a rubbery, so strenuously, so flexibly formulated prohibition. I'll give you some examples. Is the fear also to be tormented by a judge to question, e.g. the legality of the signature of the regulation, if that is the case before the court, of the citizen who requested the settlement of the dispute? Finally, the legislative authority of the Minister under the law, under the statutory authority, also seems to constitute a designation of power, just as justice falls within the jurisdiction of the judge. This will probably be further discussed by President Drachal, because for the general courts this is a smaller problem, although it may also happen there, even in criminal matters, possibly when assessing the correctness of the design of the rule, references in legislation where the statutory marks of the offence are not fully typified in the criminal law, but which refer to, for example. to ministerial regulations. Will it not become unacceptable e.g. the examination, and thus the questioning, of empowering the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data to practically torpedo the operation of the final judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court? Such a rubberized rule leaves huge fields of interpretation freedom, and the language of the law under consideration in a sphere where precision is especially required... Because precision is especially required when imposing prohibitions. Here such a language is extremely dangerous and remains in my deep conviction in a drastic collision with the principles of correct legislation. Let us here, just when we examine the prohibition on the courts and courts to challenge the so-called. legitimisation of state bodies, i.e. legalism of the actions of other authorities, attention to a more general nature, but also to a very important one. Such a ban cannot bring good justice because it weakens its authority and rank. But, much more important, such a ban cannot bring good to all those who today also demand And I think they're doing it right. The reform of the judiciary, another reform of the judiciary. So he can't bring good to the citizens. A paralysing action such as the imprecise prohibition may weaken the position of any citizen when the other party to the dispute is the constitutional body of the State or the control authority or the law protection authority. Finally, it is worth asking ourselves if the legislator gives a clear expression to this And these provisions give a clear expression to this. That he knows better than the courts, as well as what the courts are not supposed to judge, that does not mean that, contrary to the noisy statements of the preamble, he takes on a large part of justice, not in court proceedings, but by means of a general act, a law. And if, as a result, we are not found I look at this case at the border... or maybe even outside the border of a breach of the principle of three divisions of authorities, which is guaranteed in the article. Ten constitutions? Just a few more moments I want to devote to these provisions of the Law of 20 December, which remain with these 4 rules of the vortex in this technological process. Today's bill, which is under investigation by the senator and senator, forbids all the courts to... I won't be here any more, if you don't mind. It's just for speeding up the argument and keeping the narrative undisturbed. The specific articles of the amending act and the various articles of the amended laws, although, of course, at the request of the State, I can do so at any time. This law prohibits the establishment or assessment of the legality of the appointment of a judge or his mandate to perform judicial tasks. At this point it should be emphasized very strongly that, contrary to what we still hear, judges are the last people in Poland who would want to spread chaos in courts and not only in courts Or, as some may say, anarchy, despite the fact that in my deepest conviction such intentions really cannot be denied. After all, it must be remembered that courts have an inalienable duty to uphold the legal order, including the Constitution in particular. At the same time, judges, as European judges, also have an obligation to protect the values guaranteed by the Treaties. I'll do it again in this room. In accordance with Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission by Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 87. 1 of the Constitution are the sources of the generally applicable law of the Republic of Poland, and in accordance with Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 are part of the national legal order, and it is such an important In advance of Senator Czerwiński's question, I would like to say that I do not believe that they have priority over the constitution. That's my personal opinion. But that does not mean that it in any way affects all the views that I have expressed so far and which I will present to you in a moment's time. And although the courts, ladies and gentlemen, are not a source of chaos, they are burdened with the consequences of this chaos. The legislator has practically always required the appeal and the cassation court to examine, and in each of the proceedings, in each of the proceedings, the due cast of the court ruling at a lower instance and strongly requires that, in certain cases, the higher court intervenes if the judgment has been given with the participation of an unauthorised person to rule or in a composition contrary to the law: Article. 439 §1 (1) k. p. k., art. Point 379 (4) of the Code, Art. 183 §2 (4) of the law on proceedings before administrative courts. If there's time 'Cause at this point, I'm not gonna find the time. I would like to return to what was passed on to you yesterday in this Chamber: that these provisions, which are here, introduced in this law, do not interfere in any way, for example. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I heard that from the Minister yesterday. Because this provision is about warehouses, it is about whether the court is properly formed in three or five members. That's also in the article. 439 and, of course, Article. 379 c.p.c. and, respectively, in Article. 183 pp.a. It's walking, but it's a smaller problem. A common problem is a problem. not the correctness of the numerical composition, but the correctness of the filling of that composition. And how it's all gonna be like this. was it possible to examine correctly or wrongly allocated delegation? After all, delegation also falls within the scope of the Minister's statutory mandate. We have different delegations, but we have so-called ones. Ministerial delegations. And a test like that, let me put it this way, jugglers. But I don't want to use that word in a pejorative sense, I want to use it in this sense of sophistication, to show that there is something else to understand in the terms that this law operates, in the terms referred to under the procedural rules that I just quoted. It's a very dangerous game. And the examination of this correctness of the courts is, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a judge's will, it is not a judge's privilege. As I have said, it has always been a duty of the courts to express the necessary efforts for the good of the parties and participants in proceedings, but from a point on, from the moment we entered the structures of the Council of Europe, when we entered the European Union, it is also a duty to ensure that the process is fair within the meaning of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the European Convention on Human Rights and Article. 47 Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. However, the ordinary legislature, and in this respect, seeks to restrict the judicial authority in the contested law by stating that the provisions on the allocation of cases and on the appointment and amendment of the court do not restrict the jurisdiction of the judge and cannot give rise to a finding that the composition of the court is contrary to the law, that the court is not properly filled or that a person who is unable or unable to rule on the decision is not entitled to take part in the decision. Isn't that a rule that makes it impossible... But I don't want to put it like that again. Isn't that a rule that poses a great question mark to make it difficult, contrary to such a loudly declared principle of random compositions, to manipulate stacks? But it doesn't matter that the manipulation of the stacks is about manipulating these stacks without the right of control, because here it comes down to being deprived of the right of control, whether or not people who do not meet the conditions mentioned were introduced into those warehouses, in the provisions mentioned by me, in Article. 6 ECHR and Art. 47 Charter of Fundamental Rights. Finally, one more thing needs to be added and an error in the assumption that the public is unfortunately fed on a daily basis needs to be clarified. The courts concerned with the correctness of their compositions are not, ladies and gentlemen, about depriving other judges of their mandate to rule. It is not for this purpose that the judges make this check. The judges do not wish to deprive the other judges of their term of office to adjudicate. The courts who are trying to explain the legal situation in terms of the proper designation of the composition are just... I take it back: maybe not only, but until. Until? ...Till the validity of judgments in specific cases pending before them, their inviolability, their legal power, their legal power not only in Poland but also abroad. Because let us remember that not only Poles stand before Polish courts, and our judgments are not executed only in the territory of Poland, but also abroad. And I will admit that from 20 December practically every day I ask myself whether all those who raised their hand without hesitation, voting in favour of the solutions of this law, really thought that another arbitraryly designed law imposing on Polish judges such a system of prohibitions and making them subject to such repression for lack of their possible respect would strengthen confidence in the guarantee of independence of Polish judges and thus strengthen confidence in the correctness of Polish judgments in other countries of Europe and the world. Because in the end, it's important. Let us also note that all applications or statements relating to the exclusion of a judge or the designation of a court before which proceedings are to be pending, including the plea of lack of independence of the court or the lack of independence of a judge And such requests, I ask you, are made in front of all Polish courts day by day certainly several dozens, and maybe several dozens of millions of cases recognized during the year belong to the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. That's the move. not only systemicly risky, but also completely dysfunctional. The systemic risk is that another extraordinary solution is created, such a specific circumvention of ordinary court procedures, which I must say of course, particularly in view of the procedure for the appointment of judges of the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs, which causes that in a certain, perhaps significant pool of cases, recognizing such requests and all these requests are to be addressed to this one single Chamber. They would be convicted in a certain sense in this pot of cases also in their own case, in violation of the fundamental rule that no judge in their own case can, nemo iudex in causa sua. But what's worse for this House itself, which we're talking about right now, is that this legislative procedure makes it another special court next to the Disciplinary Chamber, a special court. Finally, the number of cases which can therefore be addressed to the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs by such a judgment creates a risk of systemic failure. So, regardless of all the substantive arguments, because it was supposed to be a chamber whose members would lean on the most serious issues, and here it turns out that they will have to recognize the huge number of incidents, because these are also requests for the exclusion of judges from the whole country, if only these proposals are based on the basis that I quoted, it is really threatening to flood proposals in small cases that affect the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. There was talk of constitutional arguments, I will not go back to them, but I will put a dot over There is also this argument that this solution once again will in no way speed up court proceedings before courts, but on the contrary, it may delay them in a very large pool of cases in a significant way, because it will have to send the case file from Rzeszów, Szczecin, Białystok, from all corners of the country to the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, and then send it back, while the jurisdiction now belongs to local courts. After all that I have said, ladies and gentlemen, it will be quite obvious to you that with the highest degree of criticism it is also necessary to assess the changes made to the disciplinary responsibility of the judge, and that of the judge whom we should respect and protect, because the judge who is at the heart of the text of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. At this point, I am speaking not only about the responsibility for actions which call into question the existence of a judicial relationship, the effectiveness of the appointment of a judge or the constitutional authority of the Republic of Poland, but also for these new decreted types of disciplinary delicacies with highly indeterminate marks, in such a form, I quote: At a time when the expression "constitution" is indicated as a manifestation of politicisation, I'm afraid Any statement by a judge, or perhaps even an eloquent silence of the judge and in the courtroom and outside the courtroom, may be regarded as public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. But the measure of what is compatible with these terms will be determined by a disciplinary officer and a disciplinary court. I, ladies and gentlemen, remember what the Minister spoke about yesterday, i.e. It's up to the judges to decide. And the state from other parts of the laws that have already been passed knows how and by whom the judges have been appointed. And that's the problem. In my opinion, that's the problem. Due to the inexhaustible passing of time, I remember him, Mrs. Marshal, I will signal about this group of solutions adopted in the December Act. There's only one problem. In a situation where a judge, already completely official, because it has been done unofficially so far, it will be possible to punish for everything, even for classic judicial acts, classic judicial acts, where it will not be necessary to show a clear and gross insult to the law at all, because this obvious and gross insult to the law... We've got it. This kind of conviction is happening right now. But that's where it goes away from these conditions, so you can convict a judge, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. for adjourning the hearing in view of the need for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice. Why do I say that? Because I remember that the Minister said yesterday that she felt that she was right, and of course she was right at the moment. The question referred for a preliminary ruling will not be punished. No one will be able to answer such an answer, and no one will say openly today: yes, the question for a preliminary ruling can be punished. Well, so what? Will such a delay in the examination of the case not be possible to be dealt with? In view of such a rubber formulation of this provision, which is proposed As an obstacle to the functioning of the judicial authority? Ladies and gentlemen, I am also afraid that, in the light of these new rules, it will be much easier for judges to be disciplined for making the so-called. interpretation of the pro-constitutional provisions. This does not necessarily involve leaving the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, because what else is the complete departure from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, and what else is the so-called "execution." a pro-constitutional interpretation of the provisions. In the light of everything I have already said, there is only one question, ma'am, but in my opinion it is of great importance: should we not forget the courts and judges of justice, contemplating the appointment of judges who will obey the directives of the executive authority? Let us remember that consistent action against judges so-called. the freezing effect, the efforts to fill judges with submissive or just frightened people, the treatment of courts And that's how it's recognised. As a territory to retreat, to retreat from those communist messations that are spread over these courts... So if they're treated as a territory to cancel, then then they're treated as conquered territory. And let us remember that such actions are actions, yes, which harm judges and judges themselves, but first of all they are actions to harm those who have contact with judges and courts, or actions detrimental to citizens, to society. For there will be no real judge who will be subjected to pressure and at every step will think of a possible penalty for the signed decree, for giving a decree or judgment of a particular direction or for the content of the justification he has drawn up. Those who are under such pressure do not have objective guarantees of independence. Human characters, ladies and gentlemen, are different and carried by us by judges in the hearts of the so-called. internal independence may not withstand such a fire test. As a result, the adoption of the law as it was presented to you should be referred to as a triumph of will, which is certainly not a triumph of the rule of law. In the form of a multitasking signal, I would like to draw your attention to how expansively the resolution of the December Act is aimed at minimizing all forms of judicial self-government. To this extent, the solutions proposed in Article must be critically assessed. 28, 30, 33 and 35 law on the system of universal courts in this new wording. A few examples. The Act removes the term of office and the choice of a significant part of the composition of colleges of appeal courts and district courts respectively. The judges lose their previous right to choose their colleagues for the so-called. the non-president part of the college. The College will consist at the appeal level only of the President of the Appeal Court and the Presidents of the District Courts from the area of the appeal, and at the level of the District Court and the Presidents of the District Courts from the area of the district, i.e. exclusively from persons appointed by the Minister of Justice. Moreover, the bodies thus formed are entrusted, inter alia. the right of opinion of candidates for the position of judges in common courts of all levels, taking this competence away from the authentic authorities of the judiciary, i.e. General meetings. Mr Senator, Mr Senators, saddened, and saddened by the deepest possible, it should be borne in mind that Poland, which joined the European Convention on Human Rights about 30 years ago, entering into the structures of the Council of Europe, and has therefore undertaken to respect the case law of the Strasbourg Court, Poland, which, more than 15 years ago, joined the European Union and accepted the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice, subsequently renamed the Court of Justice of the European Union, through the adoption of laws such as the Law of December 2019, has also begun, in my opinion, a march in the opposite direction, as if belonging to the international structures did not matter to our society. It should be regrettable that the meaning of the article is so marginalised. The 9th Constitution, which requires the Republic to respect its binding international law. But maybe it's not allowed to do that, too? I will therefore remind, in the context of today's proceedings of the High Chamber, of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, of the Court of Justice, not of Luxembourg, but of the Strasbourg Court, which shows the obvious impact of the judicial cast on the exercise of the right to a fair trial and therefore the need to ensure that this cast can be verified during the process. This is, for example, the famous case of Mr Henryk and Mr Richard Urbana against Poland, in which Mr. Senator Cichoń, the Senator of the previous term, and now Mr. Or the requirement to also give the judge the right to speak, even critically, to the rulers. For example, the Kudeshkin case against Russia or the Bak case against Hungary. Finally, in the context of the exercise of the right to court, the Strasbourg Court also expressed its views on the prohibition of political factors from taking over judicial councils, e.g. in the cases of Volkov and Denisov v Ukraine. The views expressed in these, but not only in those, because also in other ECHR rulings, these are not some political opinions of Polish judges, it is a constant and uniform line of case law of an important international tribunal. I therefore understand that the High House will also answer the question whether compliance with, for example, such decisions of the ECHR may be prohibited to judges. I'm a realist, so I realize that even the arguments of this rank can be If not in the upper chamber, after the bill had returned to the lower chamber, it was rejected because it would be the political will of the parliamentary majority. But as a judge, as a lawyer... But not only as a judge, but also as a lawyer, I have a duty to forget all political implications and put the issue in a purely legal way, which is: if you have committed yourself to something on the international stage, should you not respect these obligations? Allow the courts to submit questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling, allow it to apply its case law and European law in general, but also, after the Court has given its reply to the Court's judgments, do not disregard and read the indications contained therein which are not in conformity with their actual content. Here I will refer once again to this repetition that in point 133 of the ECHR judgment of 19 November Ub. r. there is a thought that is simply not there. If you wish, we will read this point 133 together. To the end Allow me to reflect on my beloved Supreme Court, in which I have worked hard, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 29 years. The end of the first Supreme Court President, Professor Margaret Gersdorf, is imminent. There is no need to remind us of what events this term was marked. Without this reminder, however, it can be concluded that there are doubts as to whether there is an article. Point 2 (1) of the Act on which the Senate is debating does not constitute one of the most important elements of this amendment for the authors of the draft submitted to the Sejm. Here again the sound of the article is being changed. The 13th Supreme Court Act, which regulates the procedure for the election and appointment of the first President. A lot of attention has already been given to this provision and to the press and to the Senate committees. I want to move on to just one aspect: regardless of who is to be the successor of Professor Gersdorf in this position, and the Supreme Court judges do not want to see this as a political issue, because it is important for the judges to be honest and, secondly, equally important for candidates to have a mandate of trust coming from inside the court, the entire Supreme Court, and not from its part or even a part of it. And the change of such expectations poses a great question. Just look at the content of the article. 13 §4 in the new wording and notice systematically reduced in the wording of this provision the threshold of the quorum of the general assembly, which, by a strange coincidence, amounts at the end of 32 persons with more than 120 judges. The judges appointed by the new National Judicial Council may themselves complete the quorum of the electoral assembly. Yes, the legislator can theoretically decree such a solution, only that it is worth asking himself whether such a solution will not create a field to fear that the independence of the Supreme Court from the vertical political power will be in a new arrangement, so I will describe it as if a slightly smaller one than this is currently the case. I understand that again without any non-legal intent I want to believe it, though my faith is weak It was added in a procedated law that was clearly non-constitutional, contrary to the Constitution's provisions, to the termination of the article. 13a. Why? That is because it was introduced by an institution not provided for in the basic law. First President of the Supreme Court. I know, the idea isn't new. The idea has already been tested, as we know, but the fact that it has been tested is not an argument for the correctness of such a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, this still existing constitution clearly states that courts and tribunals are separate and independent from other authorities It's an article that talks about it. 173, which is almost a repetition, expressing the same thought from which I began my speech, quoting the Constitution on 3 May, while judges in the exercise of their office are free and subject only to constitution and laws; this is in turn art. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1. I stress: first the constitution, but also the laws. The judges do not want, I repeat, do not want, and even cannot practice politics, it is absolutely not their role, but unfortunately a political issue has been made from the judiciary, and the public wants to say that judges have political aspirations and that it is these political aspirations of judges that are designed to prevent continuous change in the so-called. So what will the Polish judge do after the entry into force of this law, who will stand up to the dilemma: obey the constitution, international law, European law, according to their true substance and spirit, and take responsibility for it or obey the political will of the other 2 authorities dressed in the robes of the law and perhaps in mental discomfort, with proverbially closed eyes, but in a way that is not physically disturbed, continue to perform their office? I, ladies and gentlemen, for the benefit of PESEL, will not face such a dilemma, but I deeply sympathize with every judge who, in the face of such a choice, stands. And everyone in his conscience will have to consider in depth what to say, which way to go. I firmly believe that for creating such a situation, for bringing judges to such dramatic elections we can It's not the first time in history. To pay as a society a high price. During the March of the Thousand Seasons, which turned from the march of a thousand to the march of thousands of hails, I heard from the mouth of an excellent, truly experienced judge who is now at rest. It's very important because it's not a judge who's still fighting for some of his privileges, that he's defending some stool, that he's clinging to his post. Very bitter words: it is possible even that the Sejm will actually be able to close the mouth and order to the judges in Warsaw. Next, however, he added: I would warn you about this scenario. And he reminded the thrilling verse from the Gospel of St. Luke: "I tell you, if these are silent, the stones will cry out. And then I remembered not only those words that I said goodbye to you in December 2017. With some of you, but, as I see, with a large part of you The words about free courts and free people, but also a short poem of the great Polish poet Adam Zagajewski entitled "The Law" and devoted to the law. Except for the law we call the right law, the law that embodies the idea of justice. The final verses of Zagajewski's work are: "[...] it, / durable as clock springs / on castle towers, lifts / and strengthens the arms of free people. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also convinced today that any further fate of this law, in the hearts and minds of Polish judges, will survive the belief that the right law is like the springs of clocks on castle towers and that it is this right law that lifts and strengthens the arms of free people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u194	Thank you very much. I'm still at my disposal, Mr. Marshal, right? Yes, yes, please, Judge. Thank you very much, Mr. President, Judge. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the invited guest related to the item on the agenda. I've already got a list of people on the list to ask you a question. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u195	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, thank you for such a thorough analysis of the bill, which I, as a politician, can call, as publicists, muzzles or repressives. I'd like to ask the president... Yesterday, during the debate, the senators and some ministers expressed themselves that Poland has the right to its own judicial model. I would like to ask the President what characteristics such a judicial model will be if the law we are discussing today enters into force, but also in the context of the laws on the Supreme Court which have already been put on the market, the system of common courts, the National Courts... You want to, Judge... Whatever. ...but also in the context of the political position that the Constitutional Tribunal has at the moment, and its role in this system. Previous law on the D.A.'s office, a law called surveillance... How will this model be able to describe how different it will be and how different it will be from the model shaped over the past 30 years, until the first laws, which, I would say, have been adopted, have pseudo-reformed the justice system and the judicial system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u196	Thank you very much. Do you want me to answer that? Well, let's agree that three people and answers... Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u197	I wanted to thank the President, but I'm not gonna do it because I expect the same conclusion as when I asked him to give me some applause. I have four questions. First: whether this novel is in breach of Article. 178 constitutions? I am talking about this here and I am asking explicitly whether the act in this form does not refer directly to the article. 178, that is to the independence of the courts. Isn't there a contradiction here? The second question is that the President said he would not be able to raise it in time. Is the judge really a judge who is first appointed in a formula with a legal defect resulting from the article. 179? I'm talking about the president and the KRS. Third question. Does the Disciplinary Chamber, which rules like a court, although the court is not, issue decisions which affect the fate of individual defendants at present, among others. to the TSUE... What may be the fate of these judgments, the consequences of which may be? I'm asking because I'm looking at their number. The last question relates to the message from government representatives that there are similar solutions in Europe. I would like to ask if there are cases of such solutions in the European Union as this amendment proposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u198	Thank you. Together it's going to be five... Then you're welcome. Thank you, Senator. Mr. President, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u199	Senator Rybicki asked about the model... Yesterday it was said that Poland has the right to its own model... Yeah, I remember now. What will make this model? I'm asking because I'm looking at all the changes in the system in the judiciary, the justice system, etc. I'll answer the question. ♪ I just want ♪ Thanking Senator Zdrojewski for respecting my request on this level because he actually protested against it. To say that I will answer questions only at the legal level. I will not refer to any political aspects. Although it is sometimes very difficult, I will try to respect this security. Let's get started. Mr Senator, from the fact that the mere fact that each Member State has the right to shape its judicial model is correct. This is the case, each country can develop a model on its own, but on one condition, namely that this model will remain in the universal values accepted by the European community. It's not like there's no universal model. There is no universal model as to the number of instances, as to a number of other technical solutions. It was mentioned in a section of the debate, if I remember correctly yesterday, that the ministry was going to flatten the structure of the courts, move from the three-instant structure to the two-instant structure. This is all about a model that you have the right to shape. Only that he is allowed to do so without violating the fundamental values, and the canons on which the non-economic community is based, but only the community of values of the European Union states, belong, among others. the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. And if this model were shaped so as not to violate these values, then of course, I hope so, the judges would not protest. Probably society, and you wouldn't see anything wrong with it. But when these values are threatened, then we enter this sphere, which, I understand, concerns the senator's question. Now I will have to be more observant in my words and I will say this: in my opinion we have already come dangerously close to this red line, the red border, which means that these values are being violated, as evidenced by the position of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November last year. And if this law were passed, in my opinion, and I am deeply convinced of that, this red barrier would have crossed, in a very dangerous way. If the senator asks any more details, I'll try to answer them as carefully as I can. If Senator Zdrojewski will allow me, I'll start from the end, because that's what I wrote down. First of all, the problem with the thesis is that nothing happens, because the rules of a disciplinary nature which are introduced into the law are similar, and even such claims are made. In some cases it coincides with solutions known from the laws of other countries. We have to be clear about this. I signalled this in the preliminary part of my basic statement that the wording of the rule is not important, but the wording itself. It is important how this provision in the cultural contexts concerned, in the legal contexts of a particular legal system, is read or read, for example. therefore, during what historical period Yesterday, such a statement was made. or at what specific stage of development it has been formulated. He may fail completely in other circumstances, at a different stage. But, most importantly, it's very important what kind of environment Lawyers call it a normative environment, that is, the whole set of rules is built up. I'm about to use a specific example. Minister Kaleta refers very often to the article. 10 and to explain that this article. 10 is practically a faithful equivalent... Besides, the Minister placed it in the so-called. Social media made in the Ministry translation of this provision. And I, ladies and gentlemen, confirm: this is a faithful, faithful translation. That's the way to put it. I would even like to quote, in order to bring this matter closer to the state of the inlaw, as it is said: "Judges are forbidden to demonstrate hostility to the principle of action or form of the Government of the Republic, as well as any political appearances..." Only that, Minister, there, in the same provision, it is further said: it is not in line with the limitations associated with their function. And you were informed, as far as I know, at meetings of various types of teams, among others. by a great specialist, Professor Laurent Pech, about the conditions in which it worked We know in which year this provision was adopted in France And how it works today... or it doesn't work at all, because of that... Once again, I will quote the end: political speeches that are not in line with the limitations of their function. And here is what you were informed about: there judges can belong to political parties, trade unions etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, if you ask me privately, am absolutely not in favour of a Polish judge being a member of a political party. It is not that I want it to be like France, it is that I want you to see how it is there that this provision does not hurt anyone and is not judged by the international community as a rule threatening the rule of law, and the same provision, practically calibering that rule, could threaten the rule in another normative environment. And it is beyond any dispute that the international tribunals, both the Luxembourg court and the Strasbourg tribunal, order the investigation what we call the rule of law in our language, and in the language of the international community, is expressed in such a broad term rule of law... that they command to examine the whole condition, not the content of each rule separately. That's one thing. Second, they're ordering us to investigate. not what the text is, this row of letters, but what standard under certain conditions which bodies, e.g. whether ordinary judicial review... whether ordinary courts, or only disciplinary courts, can carry out letters in this order. Because the law, ladies and gentlemen, is not the dry text of the bill, the law is not those letters contained in the legislation. This right is only decoded legal standard. And the last comparison. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit so that we have a football club in which there is just a weak player, a player who can really do a lot of harm on the field, but as he plays around 10 solid, good players, we don't see the weakness of this player, he himself, so to speak, maintains in this frame. But if we surround this player with 10 like him, there's a terrible threat that this team just won't play well. So much for these conditions as regards the impossibility of such simple pasting from the system to even equivalent solutions. Disciplinary Chamber of theoretical threats. Ladies and gentlemen, you can read this to a certain extent from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November last year, but already in a completely literal way from the judgment of the court, so-called. the referring court, because, as you know, as a result of this question for a preliminary ruling, the Luxembourg Court ordered the Supreme Court to apply the so-called. a test of independence, very strictly specifying the criteria as to how this test is to be applied, and the Supreme Court has done so. Well, he came to the belief that was expressed in the judgment of December 5th. I would like to say, by the way, because I do not know whether this message has come to you, that two more judgments were handed down yesterday, also issued by the so-called. the referring court, the Supreme Court's chambers of work, in connection with the second questions for a preliminary ruling, and both of these judgments are in the same direction as the judgment of 5 December. And these are the dangers you're asking the senator for. But there's another threat. There's a threat... I don't want to do it in the slightest, because I'm not authorized to do it, and I never do it as a lawyer, because I only respect the judgments that have come to pass. But we cannot dismiss the fact that there is already a complaint, a complaint from the European Commission, not a question for a preliminary ruling from any of the Polish courts concerning the whole system of so-called. disciplinary action, which is not only related to the Disciplinar Chamber itself. And what's more, in connection with the various events of the last few days... I don't think there's any need to refer to the little things in this place again... Two days ago, Commissioner Jourova announced that the European Commission would request the issue of the so-called. a safeguard provision to rely on the so-called "safekeeping provision'. freezing the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber. Of course, I don't know how this proposal will deal with the TSUE, I admit, I don't know. But if the TSUE were to take account of this proposal, then it would only be a very serious problem. This problem would be more than just how to treat the possible activities of this authority despite a protective decision, so let us describe it. Although I want to believe that this is not going to happen because I want to believe that every lawyer knows that when a judgment comes, this ruling must be respected. And if that ruling were respected, then the problem is smaller if it wasn't respected, then we're getting a really serious story. What's more, it's about how it's gonna possibly affect the decisions that have already taken place. Right now, it would be theoretical. But if the senator wishes, again, on a purely legal level... If that were the case, the TSUE would say so. And all of this will depend on the recitals of the judgment of the TSUE that consequences should be drawn e.g. because it is not a court within the meaning of European Union law, also backwards, it would then have to be considered a so-called procedure. renewed in relation to those judgments. This is really very serious trouble, and that's why I called it legal chaos, because then it would be legal chaos. I could tell you more when I'm gonna know, for example. the content of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Maybe just one more thing to do with it, that's the fact that it's a judgment if it were to happen. It's a cliché, it's an old truth, but we have to repeat it, because it's a terribly important truth. It will be addressed to all authorities, not only to the judicial authority, which will then have to deal with it somehow, but also to the legislative authority and to the executive authority, and then we will all stand... I hope that Polish lawyers will not really look for any roads then, well, to say that nothing happened, maybe we'll just pull it off and maybe we won't worry about it for now, and we'll see what happens in the future. Then there is nothing left to see, what will be in the future, because every day can then only, in my humble opinion, worsen the situation, also in terms of so-called. quantitatively. About the article. 178 of the Constitution was asked by the senator. It was clear from my speech that, in my opinion, there was a threat here, in a few threads during my speech, such a thesis was changing. I think that's all the questions. Was there any more, I'm sorry? And the judge, the first calling, and the mode of his calling with this flaw. Now, now, now. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, you can say this: in the law we regulate - No, that's what I'm saying. Only the statutory definition of a judge and the mode of appointment is Article. 179 constitutions and therefore two separate, non-conventional entities. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking a very simple, logical, basic question: how can you define somebody at the moment I'm abstracting from whether it's a definition of a judge or a definition of some other officer? If it is completely abstracted from the mode of his appointment? If, under the appointment procedure, it is referred to the need for cooperation between 2 bodies when a person is appointed as a judge Because this relationship is additionally immanent, integral, we could still use a number of other terms and adjectives. As far as the definition is concerned, the latter factor determining the regularity of the procedure is not taken into account at all. So there's really such a serious question that... This is another message for you, but it's official. This is on the foundation of the legal question which yesterday was addressed to the joint chambers by the first President of the Supreme Court. So it's not a question of my doubts, it's no longer a question of the doubts of a few courts that came out of the so-called. on specific legal questions, on specific matters relating to the status of judges who, in fact, respectfully respect the President and the prerogatives of the President... They have received nominations from the President, but have gone through this mode of questioning because of the divergent interpretations of Rule 187. So we go back to this problem, whether they rule the letters, and we don't care if the historical interpretation counts. Let us be aware that, after all, the minutes of the Round Table talks and the deliberations of the Constitutional Commission clearly show that, in fact, functionally, purposefully this was the case. Despite the fact that there is no dot above the article. 187 of the Constitution I'm gonna get the so-called one. The judge, that is, the out-of-office part of the National Judicial Council, was not only made up of judges and was not only an emanation of the fact that... Yeah, that's the extra factor, not the constitutional one, but under the ordinary law. A bunch of judges signed off on it. We do not know what group and what signatures .. under the so-called.. with letters of support, but that's even why I'm abstracting right now. Isn't the point at all that this group should be chosen by the judges rather than by the factor Well, I don't want to say political at the moment, although it's on the lips of a different authority, from a legislative authority? Isn't that what's interfering with the three divisions of power? I still want to believe that it was an imprecisely expressed thought, I want to believe it, but yesterday the Minister spoke about our judges and yours, which you will invoke as you come to power. Ladies and gentlemen, as a judge to me, no matter who says it... If any of you, from the opposition, from any other political party, had expressed the same thought, it would have been equally dramatic for me. I don't want to, I just don't want to reason in such categories that we have whether we will have yours and our judges in Poland. This is for the judiciary the greatest drama that can happen. And that's the answer to your question, with such a strong dot over the top, Mr. Senator. That's it, isn't it? Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u200	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. President. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Judge! I have a question about this greatest value, which was the basis for changing the whole justice system and which was emphasized so strongly in 2015. It's about an ordinary citizen, it's about increasing his safety, it's about increasing his protection, it's about cutting back on cases. I'm asking if the actions that have taken place over the years... I'm thinking here. And I have to say it. On the politicisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, on the politicization of the National Council of Judicial Affairs, on the politicisation of the prosecutor's office, and at the end of the day, although I know that this is not the end of this whole cycle, about this repressive act. Were these actions, in any way and for a moment, really the cause of concern for the ordinary citizen, the ordinary man? Have these proceedings actually been reduced, or have the costs been reduced in some way? Because these were the assumptions of changes to the whole system, which in 2015 were started by the Ministry and related to which we are in this situation at the moment. And second question. Was there really no mechanism before 2018 that would in any way judge or discipline judges? Is it really just these laws, these repressive laws that are going to change that, and it's really just going to happen right now? Please answer these questions. Mrs. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u202	Does the judge decide right now... Oh, I'm sorry. Yes? You're welcome. I think it'll be easier, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u203	I'll start with the second question, because we all remember them more. Ladies and gentlemen, really... The thesis that before 2018 judges were completely impunity, for all those who know the reality of the operation of the Polish judiciary, know the legal reality, the normative solutions, is... I don't want to use strong words, but really disconnected from reality, so let's put it that way. First of all, of course it was disciplinary responsibility. If you had to, in my opinion, Stricter, and when it comes to minor disciplinary offences, it's milder. That doesn't mean anything. I want to mark it right away. That I personally agree with all the decisions that were made at that time, just as I do not agree with some of the decisions which the Disciplinary Chamber gives, the one which has been declared to be a court which does not fulfil the conditions of European regulation. I wouldn't go into polemics with some of this room's rulings, absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, of course they've also happened in the past... But I am equally convinced that it would happen in the future if the Disciplinary Chamber continued to act in the same intact status as it has so far acted, completely impossible decisions. I'll tell you, go ahead... Yesterday he was cited in this Chamber as an example of this judge, who not so much avoided responsibility at all, as he avoided one of the only ones who, in my opinion, was also a legitimate responsibility, namely to file for the fact that he committed the theft. I can tell you what happened to this case. All these decisions are published, each year they were issued yearbooks. This is publicly available in the library, you could buy in the bookstores yearbooks of all decisions of the Supreme Disciplinary Court, which acted in specially separate Division VI, disciplinary, at the Supreme Court Penitentiary Chamber. And I know, among other things. That ruling. The court of first instance expelled this judge, the Supreme Court, in my deep conviction, unjustly He changed his sentence and imposed an extremely severe fine, if I remember correctly, exceeding at least several dozen times or, I don't want to exaggerate, maybe even a few hundred times a property ailment that would have met a private citizen. He explained it in such a way that until the removal from office would contradict the principle of equality before the law, since... Well, it was a misdemeanor, it was because of the value of the object. And that, therefore, it is enough to impose such an extremely severe, much more severe penalty than in the case of an ordinary citizen. Of course, I think it's wrong, because even if the judge does 10 zlotys, he shouldn't be a judge. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to develop this thread because it's as obvious to me as... Just, ladies and gentlemen, individual accidents... And if you were to study these collections of judgments, you would see that there is one such decision. Does that mean that such decisions don't happen now? Me, for example. I have been appalled by one of the judgments already given during this last period, during a period of good disciplinary courts, so to speak, namely by a judgment imposing a relatively mild penalty for deliberate... If I remember correctly, it was for the D.A., I'm sure the Minister will remember it better than I do. It was about punishment for the so-called. Drinking and driving. But it's a deliberate crime. Not for an involuntary traffic accident, because that's not the point, it's really a problem here, because it can often not be a disciplinary offense at all. But we do act on purpose to conduct ourselves in a state of drunkenness. Plus, there's no expulsion penalty, no filing. And I gave the ruling myself, ma'am, a few years ago, in which I found that if the judge were to allow himself to rule... 'Cause we've all been court-martialed, criminal judges, disciplinary matters. Anyway, I'm going to talk about it right now, because it's also very important how the stores were designated. I gave a ruling that made it clear And it was published not only in this collection, but also in the official collection which the Supreme Court gives, considering certain judgments to be leading, as milestones of case law. That a judge who commits intentional misconduct should be punished by an office of office. So what? Well, this chamber also has these kinds of decisions that differ from this kind of thing, which are obvious to me, but I don't make any categorical conclusions because individual accidents can't authorize generalizations that there was no responsibility at all. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you will be interested in how the warehouses have been designated. The compositions for any disciplinary matter of a judge were appointed by means of an iron rule of randomness. One only condition was that, due to the knowledge of the procedures, a criminal judge had to preside over and was therefore drawn separately. But the others were drawn from the entire Supreme Court: and from the Civil Chamber, and from the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance, and from the Criminal Chamber. I think that this principle of randomness provided much more of what we could call such a... well, really not closing in a tight circle, so let's put it that way, for example. The 10 chosen who should have the highest degree of trust and who, as the only ones, would be able to give the right sentences in disciplinary proceedings. You could continue, Senator, but I think you've received an answer to your question. You can also, ladies and gentlemen, take a look at the statistics and check After all, these statistics are being carried out How much was there, for example? punishments of the harshest, how many other punishments were there. You can also, ladies and gentlemen, look at the statistics, after all there are statistics: e.g. how many punishments were the harshest, how many punishments were of another kind. Finally, we can also look at the statistics as to whether there have been judgments and, if so, what disciplinary offences were involved, at the same time combined with the fulfilment of the statutory elements of the offence by the same act that waived the immunity of the judge. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a clear lie that the judges didn't respond criminally. They responded criminally. Immunity was lifted. And now it's being said about it as if by 2018 there was no disciplinary responsibility of the judges at all. I think it would be very interesting to have a statistical survey that shows the structure of convictions and the structure of penalties in certain time periods. Oh, let's put it that way. The second question was... It was about the ordinary citizen and all these changes, to the extent that they would fix his safety, his protection... That's the question of the river. Senator, that's the question of the river. Of course... It's not my opinion again, it can just be read from the statistics, even from the statistics of the Ministry of Justice. The way the period is shaped... In the legal slang, we call it behind schedule from year to year. Yesterday, there was only one category of cases in this room. I do not deny, perhaps in this one category of cases, which has been given as an example, something has actually moved and is moving in a better direction. Well, there's a whole range of other cases, ladies and gentlemen, for which the official statistics of the Ministry show that, and I hope that no one here will deny it, because the numbers don't lie. Okay, I'm gonna go back to work. They just grew up. So nothing's moved forward, but we're dealing with a worse situation. I'm not gonna answer your question for a very obvious reason, which is that I'm not a psychologist who enters other people's minds. Have all these moves been done with good or bad will over the past few years? I say all the time: I always take action with good will, which does not mean that actions with good will bring good results. Sometimes you act with the best will, and the results are bad. Notabene sometimes happens with bad will, and a good result will happen, which is undoubtedly less frequent. I don't want to assume bad will, but I want to say it wasn't a good four years for the judiciary. I'll reach out to the example I'm closest to. Like I say, I don't know you. In bailiffs, I don't know anything about real estate, etc., but I think that after 45 years of work, I know a little bit about criminal matters, criminal procedure. For example, ladies and gentlemen, how could good results be achieved is such an action in which over the last few years only I'm only going to use this one example, but he's very significant, maybe he'll show you what the problem is. In fact, there have been four completely fundamental changes in the criminal procedure in recent years. But not so small, e.g. such that, in the scope of one provision, it is necessary to adapt the provisions of Polish law to the incidentally standardizing one case of the judgment of the Strasbourg Court, no. It was about some of the foundations on which the criminal procedure was established. The first such major reform, which the creators hoped would result in speeding up proceedings, which is what we all care about, and that it would also be combined with many other good results, such as. The decrease is also associated with acceleration The number of cases repealed to be dealt with again, i.e. from the so-called. a broader reform ruling, i.e. the final one, by the courts of appeal, and not by issuing judgments of a casatorial nature and referring the case to re-examination, was a reform of 2013, which was worked for a very long time; the vacathio legis was also very long. This amendment entered into force on 1 September 2015. It has really been working on this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of legal minds, not only grouped in the Committee on the Codification of Criminal Rights, but also invited as consultants, experts. The reform took off and, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't... we didn't get to know the results, because we couldn't get to know the results, because she was allowed to act. Let me calculate. Less than six months. In March 2016, there was another very profound revision of the criminal procedure which reversed the solutions provided for in that reform, carried out in total under the same slogans. Because we know better, don't we? I don't know, maybe those who decided to do this next reform were deeply convinced that they knew better, but it would be worth letting them check out that one, wait a while longer, not be so impatient. Since 2016, we have still had 2 amendments, not so deep, I will admit, not so fundamental, but also covering the huge parts of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I don't want to prejudice right now, ladies and gentlemen. I'm as far away from it as possible. Whether the other one was good or the other one was worse, whether the other one was better or the other two were worse or better. One thing I want to say is that, ladies and gentlemen, when you hand these instruments to the judges, life gets awfully complicated. First of all, judges, because in addition all the changes were carried in very complicated, difficult, complicated so-called. interim, inter-temporal, i.e. time-related, procedural issues to be dealt with under the old procedure, and which according to the new and in relation to which group of cases. The judges, ladies and gentlemen, have walked at some point, and yet at this moment they walk, with four different codes, in the sense that it is the same code of criminal proceedings, but they are dealing with three fundamentally different normative states. Moreover, in one and the same case, for example, in relation to some of the issues standardised in the Code of Criminal Procedure. apply the old law, to others new, and to others so-called. It's an accident bill. It's a middle bill. Why? Well, in terms of so-called. process dynamics Those of you who are lawyers, and yet I see lawyers in this Chamber, know what it means to be a dynamic of the process, other intertemporal rules are provided for, and in relation to the so-called. different inter-temporal rules are provided for in the process statics. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it could not improve the proceedings, on the contrary. Secondly, it couldn't make the judges' work any easier, but it made their work awfully complicated, but what's more, Well, let's leave these judges alone, that's their profession, that's what the state pays the judges for and let them work their way through. It made life difficult for society, because it affects the defendants. If by reason of the fact that the judge really must first for many hours wonder which of the legal rules because of these so-called solutions. It's supposed to be temporary. It's supposed to be... He could spend all this time focusing on the essence of the dispute, on a decision not purely formal, but on the pursuit of a substantive decision. And, among other things, That's the problem. It was that everyday reality. I didn't know anything about it, I said, I don't know, but yesterday I found out, in this room I found out. In turn, in the civil procedure it suddenly turned out that the costs of running cases for the citizen, instead of being minimized, are being increased. Well, I don't know if that's the right direction. I don't want to talk about it, because I don't know anything about civil procedure, but I know my criminal record, and that's why I checked you in on what I just checked in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Kleina, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I would also like to follow the lead that the senator was talking about, which is the issue of citizens' rights and possible threats, if they could result from this. It seems to me that my question is simpler than previously asked, because it concerns a specific record in the revised Supreme Court Act. I'd like to go back to art. 1 of this amended act, to Amendment 19. There after the art. 42 the following Article shall be inserted: 42a as specified. Art. 42a §1: it is unacceptable to challenge the power of courts and tribunals, constitutional state bodies and State control and protection bodies in the course of the proceedings of the courts. More important for my question is §2: it is unacceptable to determine or assess by a general court or other authority the legality of the appointment of a judge or the powers resulting from that appointment to perform a judicial task. And in this context, the question arises: how are the courts to which the parties will apply to exclude a particular judge? The Party shall have the right to make such a request and may motivate it freely, provided that it demonstrates that in its view such a judge should not rule on it in relation to the motivation given. And now the question is whether, by recognizing such a request, the judge's composition, regardless of whether he considers it legitimate or not, will he have to assess the legality of the appointment of the judge? If the party claims such non-compliance, but the application is formally correct, the court will have to assess whether the application is justified or not, and even if it considers it not justified, it will have to comment on the legality of the appointment of a judge. This situation seems a little ridiculous, doesn't it? How should we... This directly concerns the law of the defendant or the party to the trial. How should the court act in view of this new provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u206	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u207	Mr. Senator, I'm going to start by saying that it's not just a question of the defendant or a criminal case, because it's a rule that's going to apply to all cases. This is a very important reservation. That's one thing. The second point is that this will not apply to all requests for exemption, because requests for exemption can be based on different grounds, including those which this law did not want. in a different way to see, so e.g. may be based on the fact that I recall this from memory The judge witnessed the act, it may be a number of other circumstances. This is going to apply to these situations. You've already made a statement that you're taking that assumption. - What's going on? it involves questioning the regularity of the appointment of a judge to carry out judicial tasks. I want to say two things. The first is that, in my opinion, this is a recipe. also integrally related to these 4 provisions, which I called the stationery, i.e. the article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 law on the system of universal courts in the new wording, Article. 29 the Law on the Supreme Court in a new form and the others, which formulate the so-called. the statutory definition of the judge. This is a recipe to prevent... Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think so. After all, such declarations are clearly made in this Chamber during this debate, we have nothing to hide. This is intended to prevent the possibility of examination after the entry into force of this law, in particular the legitimacy of judges nominated by the new National Courts of Justice. That's how you read it. That's how I read it. But by the way, neither did the legislator, contrary to what we have heard, against the declarations of the Ministry's representatives. In my opinion, that's how I see it. Unfortunately, the law also covers other situations. I will give you only one example, but many examples can be imagined. Not so long ago, last year was delivered in the Criminal Chamber, which states that the person who was formally elected by the council of the municipality as a juror against the prohibitions laid down in Article. 159 §1 of the Law of 27 July 2001 439 §1 item 1 of the Commercial Code. This was the case when, in the case of a misdemeanor case, the offence was a juror and he ruled, he was in the formation of the judge who issued the ruling, the deputy commander of the City Guard, or the guard who was to deal with, among others. like the kind of crime he was convicted of. And the Supreme Court said, "No, this can't happen." Turns out I've been really careful with this. The fact that such a case is unfortunately also covered by the prohibitions referred to in the Law adopted by the Sejm. It wouldn't be possible to investigate. And yet what a logical thought is contained... I will only quote one sentence from the justification of the decision: "In the case of a merger of a position relating to the prosecution of crimes and offences with the function of a juror, we are dealing with the result of Article. 159 § 1 point 3 of the Law of 27 July 2001 on the system of common courts, the prohibition of incompatibilitas. non-acceptance of the merger of posts, non-acceptance of the merger of functions. It follows from the need to eliminate those dealing with legal protection professionally from the exercise of justice. Well, see what's written in the bill that was passed. That's exactly what a court wouldn't be allowed to investigate. I'm most convinced of that. Because if he did, he would have violated the ban laid down in this bill and put himself under very strict responsibility. It's a good thing the verdict is from July last... even from 2018. Do we really want to eliminate such accidents too? Well, they've been, I'm sorry for the term, absorbed by that ban that was established. And final question: what should the court do? Senator, according to this law which has been passed, this court would have nothing else to do, but would have had an obligation if such a request had been made, whether it would have been an incidental application, in the course of a first-instance or secondary proceedings, or it would have been a matter of scrutiny already in the course of appeal proceedings or even of cassation, by the Supreme Court, only another chamber... There wouldn't be anything left for all these courts except to put the files in an envelope or a package. And maybe it's a 100-volume file, then you have to rent the right means of transport. And take them to Warsaw, the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. Because in accordance with this law that you are deliberating, all cases of this type of application have the right to decide That's what I've been talking about. Only the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, which thus becomes, as I have concluded, a court sui generis, a court designated for special prosecutions, an exceptional court. Well, that's the consequence, of course, if the court wanted it ironically... And the courts should abide by the laws, right? Thank you very much. Mr. President... I think that's the only question. The only one. Yeah, there was one. Is it over, Mr. President? Yes. I'm done, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u208	Thank you very much. The next question you ask is Senator Krzysztof Brejza. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Senator, previously a Member, Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska, has already raised the issue of extension of proceedings. According to the association's data, the average length of legal proceedings increased by 50% in 2019 compared to the length of 2015. Even according to the Ministry's data concerning the years 2014 and 2019 it is 1.3 months. So the cases at first instance go on longer. Court proceedings are also more expensive. Introduced e.g. a new fee for a request for reasons of judgment, a provision. This is 100 PLN. This hasn't happened before. It's a fee. Yes. In family matters, a fixed rate has been introduced in payment cases, which in practice means higher costs for citizens. I have a question about the length of cases. Do you see at least one provision in this law that will reduce the time limit for court proceedings, speed them up, improve them? That's the first thing. Second thing. There was a lot of talk about the model yesterday. A lot of Mr Ziobra's words, the words of bitterness and criticism sounded here. He formulated the concept of caste. But isn't it so that the free courts system in Poland has been built for years on the basis of the assumptions of solidarity? I am talking about the 1980 Declarations of Solidarity, the employees of the NSZZ.Solidarity, which called for the introduction of the principle of judicial independence, to ensure that the Presidents of the courts are elected by the judicial community in order to create a judicial authority, so that judges decide on the seat of judges. Was the 1989 model implementing the provisions of the NSZZ.Solidarity? Do the regulations introduced in recent years, led by the proposed law, depart from the demands of the Solidarity? I will return to 2001 when the draft law on the system of common courts was created. Did this draft law introduce a judicial authority, or did the project establish the statutory functioning of the judicial authority? Is it true that, at the time, Minister Ziobro was involved in the work of the Ministry of Justice here yesterday?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u210	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u211	I'll start with the last question. Mr. Senator, I can't satisfy your curiosity because I don't know. And if I don't know, I say I don't know. Now I'm going back to the beginning. The first question was this: is there at least one provision in this law that speeds up and improves procedures? In this bill, I do not see such a provision. I may be shortsighted, but my opinion is that there is no such rule. What's more, there is e.g. The condition which I have just mentioned and which threatens to be dysfunctional, prolonging proceedings, when in connection with the settlement of all these requests, which the previous senators asked about, will have to send files from all over Poland to Warsaw and will have to be queueed in the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs and then sent back to the field. It's connected somehow to the senator's question. If you ask me if I can see in the laws that have been passed in the meantime, the legislation of an improved nature, then as a lawyer, I would have to answer honestly that in some respects I see such rules. I see provisions on maintaining the model introduced by the Act, and even, I would say, the extension of this model, in March 2016. I'm talking about extending the model of judgment in a reformatory manner, not a casatorial way. I'm talking about criminal procedure because I know this one. I can see the possibilities of improvement. Only that seeing at the same time a dramatic threat And sometimes there has to be a balance between what you want to achieve and what you unfortunately lose. In the recently introduced new version of the article. 378 k.p.k. This is a rule that allows the courts to conduct proceedings in the absence of the defendant and his defender, and even, attention... Of course, it does not impose such an obligation, but introduces the possibility of conducting these proceedings even if the defendant is not properly informed of the date of the hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, this can, of course, improve the procedure, may make it more difficult. Obstructive actions by defendants Yeah, I have to admit it very loyally. But, on the other hand, Mr. Senator, Mr. Counselor... I'm sorry, I'm supposed to turn to all of you, but I've seen a professional, so... On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it's a huge threat, because this rule so weakens the defendant's procedural guarantees... A judge who wants to make it very easy for himself, and, in short, there are different judges, they're brilliant, good, medium and bad, those who... And this bad judge, when he gets a hand on this instrument, he'll use it in every case, and he'll say, and there, whether we're informed or not, we're going, I'll have a case taken care of it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a dramatic weakening of the defendant's procedural guarantees. I have to say that when it comes to this balance, I see a lot more downsides of this solution than the improvements that come from it. That's all. Thank you very much, Mr. President... One more question, Mr. Marshal, I apologize most for the model of solidarity, i.e. the creation of... Of course, yes, I... You're welcome. Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna answer that question because I told you I'd stick to the assumption that I'm talking to you about legal matters. And I consider this to be a political issue. I totally understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u212	Yeah, about legal issues. And I would like to remind all of you that we are at a stage where we ask questions that last no longer than a minute and these questions must be The answer is also, Mr President, as I imagined. Following the item on the agenda. So let's talk about this bill. Please, the question is... I'm sorry if I... No, no, I'm paying more attention to your senators than to your president. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u213	Madam President, I have a question for you about a very specific... Microphone... Is that okay? I can hear you. You're welcome, Senator. ...to a specific part of the speech made by the President, because I would like the High House to have a definite knowledge of this and to be clear about your answer. The president says civil procedure, criminal procedure, administrative procedure... Military. Yes. The procedures which the great interpreters of the legal systems treated as the hindrance of our freedom to court allow us to raise the issue of the proper cast of courts, in a broad sense, i.e. also to examine the legality of the appointment of a judge. That's the legal situation. As I understand it, we are dealing with the situation that, moments after this law has been passed, some of these rights will be destroyed. They don't have judges, they have parties in the process. It is the parties to the process, as well as the social organisations that can effectively proceed to civil proceedings or social proceedings that can raise these issues, these proposals, using procedural rights. But they will in fact be vanquished by the regulations of this law, because there will be a rigour of not making these claims by the court. So we're dealing with annihilation of the law that actually belongs to the parties, in a substantial part? I would like a clear answer to that question. The second question is, do you know another case where the rights of a court protected by a procedure are partially vanquished by another law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u214	Mr. President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u215	I answer you, Senator, as much as I can, and at the same time, in connection with the first sentence of your question, I find that this is not the final answer, because I am not the final answer. ...about your view. As for my view, yes, yes, of course, because from giving the final answer will be e.g. connected chambers, full composition of the Supreme Court, etc., etc. So as to the conclusion that this law prohibits judges from examining the status of appointment of a judge So let's put it this way. Well, yes, this diagnosis is correct, this law is in my opinion on it. Except I'd like to go back to the thread I was trying to signal in my speech. He may be quite difficult to understand for illegals, but it's very important to me. The purpose of judges who see threats in this bill is not to... they are forbidden to say that someone doesn't fill in, for example. all the conditions laid down in the procedure provided for in Article. 179 constitutions, but the aim of judges in their work is not to deprive other judges of the status of judge. They do so for a completely different use, namely in order to check the correctness of the formation, in particular in this respect, which established the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November, i.e. whether the formation of the court makes full use of the quality of independence and whether the court which is ruling on the case may therefore be regarded as an independent court. And only from this point of view do I want to answer your question and say that these threats are going to indirectly hit the sides that, for example, are going to hit. they make an application based on this kind of conviction, because the court will not be allowed to recognise this request. I'm sorry, I said you wouldn't recognize him. If he wants to respect the dry provision of the bill, he will not really be allowed to recognize this proposal unless it comes from the assumption... Well, it's for the judges. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be aware of this. This will be a dramatically difficult situation. The statement that I will not apply the law, but that I will do so in relation to higher values... ...he applied the constitution. I'm afraid if I were to say right now that I applied the constitution directly, I would face the charge. It would be a legitimate allegation that the Polish judge should not be told, because, as regards the status of the National Court of Justice, etc., it was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal, but only from the point of view of the compatibility of the rules with the Constitution. I would rather use here the statement that I will apply directly European law, or judgment... Yes, yes, it is completely different, Mr. Senator, because no one has decided about it yet and from the point of view of the so-called. The principle of priority that your Vice-Marshal spoke of yesterday, in the light of the wording of the article. 9th Basic Law, still seems real. I also asked if you knew another case in which the freedoms laid down in the procedures are vanquished in part by the regulations of another law. Is this the first such case? The way it's done here... I couldn't give you an example right now. It's actually a pretty dangerous situation, but you're about to say that I'm out of range... No, I won't. I'm finishing the lead, so I'm not gonna say. But it'll be 30 seconds, Mr. Marshal. We had a rather dangerous situation in my view when the new wording of the rules practically allowing evidence to be taken in violation was adopted. Well, there's a lot to say. In order to pursue the objective truth per fas et nefas, the law does not respect the basic citizens' guarantees. But this is a slightly different problem, of course it has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u217	Mr President, with full respect for your age, I would like to appeal to your rich, long-standing experience. I would like to ask you if you remember at what time, in the horizon of our generation's experience, an independent judge may have been punished for how he applies the law, as is the case today. How do you expect it to be? What effects can this law have in this regard today?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u218	Mr. Senator, I'll answer you as quickly as I can. For the correct application of the law in my memory... This is the privilege of my generation, PESEL is high - Yeah, that's what I call it. But not so scary again that I remember times really horrible. In my memory, for the proper application of the law, the judge has never been punished and his freedom of judgment has never been restricted. However, of course, for spending alone But here's the thing. The judgment in a gross and obvious manner that violated the law was disciplinary responsibility, and it was very good that it was disciplinary responsibility. For such truly gigantic kicks, a judge should also be held liable for disciplinary action, because simply too much damage to such a case law could cause society. It's just that it really had to be gross and obvious. It's gross, i.e. carrying such a very high quality burden, also as regards the threat of the rights of the parties, and obvious, i.e. which is a violation of the law visible to every lawyer. Of course, smaller or even quite serious, even constituting the so-called. the absolute reasons for repealing the judgment or the so-called "decision'. the reasons for annulment in civil proceedings are subject to correction by means of in-house proceedings. Well, that's why there's in-house proceedings in the process, in the procedure. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Please ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj questions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No? This is Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! The first point is a small correction. Thank you for the good word, but I'm not a patron, I'm just a humble master, an engineer of basic technical problems. Oh, I thought... That's why the first question is going to be about numbers because they don't lie. Well, you've dropped that bill. But in this group of less important allegations In the election of the first President, candidates for the first President of the Supreme Court, the quorum was dramatically reduced. And that's definitely not accurate. Well, in the old system, which is still in force, and in the law which proposes the first two steps, the quorum is the same. It is otherwise defined: in the old relative way. 2/3, that is the first step; in the new 84 members of the general assembly. The second step: in the old 3/5, in the new 75. But in absolute terms, if we don't have all the positions in the Supreme Court, which is the denominator in division is smaller, the numerator automatically increases. And right now I don't know if that's true, but let's assume that there are 105 positions in the Supreme Court, if not you. The president's gonna fix me up. This means that in the first step the quorum is 0.8, not 2/3, and in the second step it is 0.7714, above 0.7. What does that mean? That in the present state, in the new quorum law, when selecting candidates for the first President of the Supreme Court is higher than in the old laws. But we're getting to step three. Well, in the old law, the procedure was closed. You could only take two steps and that's it. The new procedure closes up in such a way that a very low quorum is actually established. In absolute numbers, that's 32. Mr. President, I'm sorry, but this is a little embarrassing for you as the Supreme Court. Because what does that mean? That means you're not able to get together twice to pick five candidates for the first Supreme Court president. Question: "Is it irresponsible if this were to happen and step three, or is it a deliberate obstruction?" And by analogy, if any of us, from the senators, begin to act as incoherent to our position, the Senate Marshal what does he say? Extinction of the ticket. Of course you can appeal to the court, but it states the expiry and the end. If the councilman makes the same delicacy, i.e. The council of the municipality will decide on the position which is incompatible with the councillor's mandate. But note: if the council of the municipality fails to do so, because it cannot gather or do so obstructively, without exercising the competence which it has and the obligation imposed on it, then it is the voivodship's replacement order. What does that mean? Laundry, President, it's really a little embarrassing. The legislator had to foresee such a case that you would not exercise your powers and responsibilities at the same time. Don't blame the legislator. You guys put the sumptuousness on it. You can lead to the fact that this third step will never be applied. But you can also lead to this third step. And that's the first question. The second is much shorter. One of the delicacies for which the judge is liable disciplinaryly is the public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the court and the independence of the judge. 107 §1 point 4. It's like you're questioning it, but it's the perfect record of the constitution. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. Well, either there's something wrong with the authors of the constitution, or there's something wrong with the authors of the bill. You have to choose something. According to me and here, and here the record is correct. Well, it's hard to blame the authors of the bill, of course, for saying that they used the constitutional record. The third point is much more fundamental, really fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine this is the situation that I am addressing the senators, but of course the president will assess it. That one of the senators will say: Dear Senator Czerwiński, you have been chosen against something, with the law. Is that even possible in the current legal situation? No. The validity of the elections is stated by the Supreme Court Let's leave out the composition of which chamber And from that moment on, I'm a senator. I can stop being in situations strictly defined in the bill, just how I'm gonna rake myself: combine functions, crime, of course judgment, etc. Please note, the Supreme Court, even him, the one who kind of called me because he declared the election valid, has no right to dismiss me. And we have a constitutional analogy: the President appoints a judge by decision. Not much, it's even the President's act, which is not countersigned by the Prime Minister. Even the Prime Minister has no way of touching him... without bringing him to him. I'm sorry, I said wrong. The question is whether the President can dismiss the judge. Of course not. Only in cases enumeratively indicated may a judge be made of office. So a very simple question, Mr. President. Before that smoke started, I'm sorry, were the judges dismissed... or was there any other way to question the legality of the appointment of any of the judges? I'm saying vocations. Not the judge's squad. How many cases have there been under the new constitution since 1997 until today? 13 years, well, less than of course. Do you see an analogy here? Or is there no analogy? Maybe if the tribunal, the TSUE, gave us that right, we'd start calling each other and appealing each other... maybe not invoke, but appeal. But would that be reasonable? Once again, once again, I don't think the appointed judge can be called off. You can't investigate the appointment of a judge. I'm not talking about the judges, et cetera, et cetera... Because even the one who calls him doesn't have that kind of authority. The same is true of our mandates. How the Supreme Court finds that elections are important No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can bring something into our life story ourselves, but it's just us on our own. Three questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u221	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u222	I understand, Mr. Marshal, that since the question lasted a little longer than a minute, I will have a little longer than a minute to answer... But I'll try to be very brief. Well, unfortunately, I'm helpless in this situation, all the more so because I don't want to discipline senators of the Senate opposition. But it's obvious to me... Only because I'm a little tired myself, and I'm sure... You're welcome. ...we're all a little tired, I took the liberty of perhaps, if so, I'm sorry. It's an inappropriate joke. Mr. Senator, first of all, I want to apologize for somehow identifying you as an attorney, but it's just a compliment to you, because I just remembered your way of thinking about your previous legal background in the Senate, and I was thinking that you're a lawyer. Question one. I said very clearly about the gradual reduction of the quorum and the fact that at the end it is a quorum of 32. And therefore I do not argue with the Senator's calculations, because they are certainly now, as I have learned your proper profession, I know that they must be precise, but also the Senator will not deny that I was right when I said that the quorum was gradually lowered and that at the end this quorum is dramatically low. Because these 32 people I consider to be dramatically low quorums and, once again, as quorums which I believe will not give to them among the candidates whom such quorum will... well, I no longer want to talk about a strong mandate, but practically even a weak mandate to perform the function of the first President of the Supreme Court. As for the assessment, when this case may occur, I will not argue with the senator. These are really going to be situations that, I'm going to put it this way, shouldn't happen, in my opinion shouldn't happen. But theoretically, they can happen. And the bill, however, is my conviction. It should not give a mandate to select candidates with such a minimum quorum. Question two. It was a matter of... Because the third one I remember... Moves. Transferring the records directly... Oh, yeah, right, of course... The fact is, the very essence of the ban on driving In short, the political activity of judges is a constitutional principle. 'Cause we're not gonna argue about that. But this is not a faithful transfer of the constitution. If the senator compares the word by word, we agree it's not a faithful transfer. Notabene, if it were a faithful transfer, then I would answer in a completely different way, in accordance with the principles of legislative technique: and what is the point of transferring from the act of the highest order the essence of what the judge is not allowed to do to a lower rank act? But that's not the point. The point is, however, in my deep conviction that, first of all, we knew very well what limits a judge, who does not respect this constitutional record, which was quoted by your senator, would be in a disciplinary manner. Because he was a disciplinary officer, responsible for the violation of the dignity of the office, and there was a very precise case law educated on the basis of such a sounding rule. Now it's a separate type of "I've been paying attention to this "disciplinary misconduct', separated from the grounds for failure to respect the office's dignity. So they can be such manifestations that have not been legalized so far, i.e. subject to prosecution, whether disciplinary or criminal, because they were considered to be actions taken within the framework of the freedom of every citizen, while assuming that, for example, this is a very good example of a judge's taking part in something that can even be called a judicial demonstration, if it works for a very grand purpose, for the protection of judicial independence, for the protection of the independence of the courts, it certainly does not affect the dignity of the office and therefore will not be subject to disciplinary prosecution. In the light of this new type, it may be subject, because it is separated from the violation of the dignity of the office. And I really want to say that this is a good time to refer to it in some sense to protest against using this example that, after all, that that National Judicial Council said in 2009 that judges have no right to use forms of protest, they cannot protest. I remember exactly what that case was about. That case concerned the intention of a large group of judges to participate in the electoral committees to which the judges were obliged, in the sense: to carry out work. Well, those were the requirements of the electoral order. It really was something, in my deep conviction, completely different from what it is trying to identify and compare with today. And finally, the last question about... I'm already very tired. Senator, remind me. There was a third question. I remember it was, but I don't remember what it was. It's PESEL. I'm sorry, I don't remember either. My chance is that the senator doesn't remember either. And it ended so nicely. Good. It ate so well and died... I'm sorry, but we're about to find it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, it's okay. You knocked me out of my rhythm. It's so nice to hear from the president. Oh, I know! It's fundamental! I've already remembered. Senator, don't look. You saved me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know, I know. Mr. Senator, as short as I can. First of all, this example, that since none of the senators can question the second senator's mandate, why would a judge be entitled to question the mandate of another judge, it is, forgive me, in my opinion, a very bad example. Why? Because you do not carry out any checks on mutual status, and you cannot carry out such tests, and we are obliged by the judges to do so by the rules of procedures that I have already quoted. Ladies and gentlemen, I say again... I still remember how one of the ministers, Mrs. Minister, tried to answer this argument yesterday. But all this is still a game of such an interpretation, which, in my deep conviction, is supposed to lead to only one, to show that in total nothing is wrong, because on a very large scale you, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to examine the incorrect compositions, only the correctness of the legitimization of the judges... But again, by all means... Please note that I have used the wording of the endorsement, and if I had written that I had examined the attachment, I would have already been in conflict with the provisions of this law. I'd have to call it something else. The best proof that it really is neither simple nor so easy to separate is these numerous so-called examples. legal questions. I'm not talking about preliminary questions at the moment, I'm talking about questions asked to the Supreme Court in the proper manner of the provisions of the Law. Code of Civil Procedure and k.p.k. When it comes to K.P.K., I remember it's about art. 441. And from where came all these doubts expressed in the so-called legal question. abstract, directed by the first President on 15 January to be decided by the Supreme Court in a very enlarged composition? Please remove from the rules of the procedure the possibility of checking regularity, as the recipe says.. I hope I took it, I brought it... No, I think I left... Oh, I got it. As K.p.k. says, but not in §1 of point 2, where it is said that the court was not properly filled or that any of its members were not present at the entire hearing, but above all in point 1, where it is referred to that an unauthorized person was involved in the decision... If we take the provision of the article seriously. 179 of the Constitution, if, of course, we have these doubts about how to understand Article. 187 constitutions... This is the rule that speaks of the emergence of a "no," it must be said that it is "emergence," because it is de facto also about the formation of a "National Judicial Council." Unfortunately, in my opinion, In my opinion, you ask me about my conviction That's what it's all about. You have to change, take away the judges in that case... in order to compare their situation to the senators' situation, you have to deprive them of that prerogative. But in that case the parties, the society, the people involved in the trials, the prerogatives of the study, or, for example, should also be deprived. That juror I was just talking about. - No, just now, half an hour ago. It may take part in the hearing whether it is duly empowered or not, whether it satisfies those conditions of exclusion or does not meet those conditions of exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you another example, certainly very important. I was just signaling it, and now maybe I'll say a little bit more, and I'll add two sentences of comment. What about the Minister's power to delegate the judges? After all, the institution of the referees is often, in a situation where the compositions of certain courts are affected, an institution of rescue It's true, isn't it? Well, she must exist. And will it be allowed to examine whether it will be possible to examine whether the delegation given by the Constitutional Authority was given by the Constitutional Authority, but not only, because it also has the authority it has? Because the minister can only give it for a certain period, etc., etc. Will it be allowed to examine this, or will it not be allowed? Well, unless you deprive the courts of this right, it is a question for a judge to raise such doubts among judges whether or not something can be a threat, also resulting in disciplinary proceedings. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... I'd like to ask you about the last one, because she's basic to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u223	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u224	What else is to examine the composition of the court I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, The examination of the status of a judge is another matter. Well, if by procedure, clearly defined, the president has appointed the man to judge, then he is the judge. Of course, if it does not stay, but it is already in disciplinary mode, made up of this position. It is this principle that is one of the basic principles that builds the independence of the judge. 'Cause he could be In quotation marks He is seen as a man of some political connotation, but when he is appointed by the President as a judge, he becomes completely independent, to the end, eternally. That's what it's all about. This is one of the rules that allows judges to be free. And a judge like that can give any ruling at any time because he's not afraid he's gonna stop being a judge or that someone's gonna investigate if he's even gonna be a judge. We're not talking about the courthouse, we're talking about the judgeship as a judge. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing here to hum from the opposition bench or the ruling coalition right now... excuse me, a coalition with an advantage in the Senate. Are some of them... Nobody booes, Mr. Senator, ask the question calmly. Yeah, I'm finishing my thought. Mr. President, explain to me: why do you want to examine in any case? 'Cause there's no limit here. Is the judge a judge, which, in my opinion, is against the law, violates his independence? He, like I said, might be afraid of such a study. And he's supposed to be independent.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u226	I just wanted to say, Mr. Senator, that we're gonna stay on our own marks, but I've given up on this case. Of course I know that I have no right to ask you questions because you have the right to ask me questions. But do you think it's so... I don't want to get an answer from you, I just want to convey my thought. Do you think that if this were to happen, that, in fact, the judge would be the person who was appointed to this position without completing this equivalent, co-essential, fundamental to the procedure of becoming a judge of the co-operation of the National Judicial Council, i.e. if she were to become a judge in violation of the procedure of the Article. 179 constitutions, that would be all right? Would a person really know that the mode wasn't preserved but became a judge be independent? I'm afraid it would be the opposite. But of course I understand that we can stay with our grades.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question. Could I also be appointed, in accordance with this new bill, to judge?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u228	Mr. Marshal... It's a theoretical question, but it's practical. ...I'll say it like this. Of course, I can't imagine it, I said that I couldn't imagine that Mr. President, one or any other, in the future, would so openly violate the rule laid down in the article. 179 constitutions. But if you're asking if, theoretically, something like this couldn't happen... In the case of such a definition and rewording in such a direction the content of the Article. The law on the system of common courts, Art. 55 of the Law on the system of common courts, respectively. 29 laws on the Supreme Court, etc., all those provisions that I mentioned in the preliminary part of my speech, in theory, could happen. And it wouldn't be possible to investigate it, and it wouldn't be possible to question it, because that's what this law prohibits.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. What I'm trying to say is that I'm absolutely not going to run for it. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u230	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I will answer that question that the president asked. Well, I don't think so, because you have to apply all the laws that we have right now. And as far as I understand, the bill that is currently in force does not authorize the President to appoint a judge without a motion from the National Court Register. But maybe I'm wrong. But if... But the law isn't from if it were a statement, not a presumptuous statement. Excuse me, Mr. President, we have to go down to a very low maybe tall The level. This law is a statement of opinion, there is no "if." And here's the basic issue. Mr. President gave us articles here, four articles that would suggest a breach... That's the question here, the violation of the status of a judge. I don't know what else to call it. By failing to comply with the vocational procedure, so to speak. And now: when could this be a failure, according to the President? And that's a basic question too. Then, when the authority requesting the President's appointment, the National Court of Justice, would have been unlawfully appointed. So we have a series of assumptions. But at the very end there is the Constitutional Tribunal, which, fortunately, has already said on this subject, said that the KRS of the Court of Justice, of course, because it was contested The judges who are members of the National Courts of Justice have been appointed in accordance with the Constitution. So this bill is in line with the constitution. Well, since there's no beginning to this conclusion, there's no end to it. Yes or no? Explain to me why in the current state of law, contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, some in Poland are questioning... Do they have the right, or do they have the right, according to your president, to question the status of judge? Not the courthouse, because it's two different things. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u231	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u232	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question was: would it be theoretically possible to check whether someone was a judge then? And I said, theoretically, it wouldn't be possible to control it, because this bill forbids it. And that's what I'm holding up. The Senator's second argument. Mr Senator, you referred at some point to the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal had already stated, so to speak, the correctness, that is, the compatibility with the constitution of such an understanding of the article. 187 'cause it's about understanding. Which assumes that the so-called. the judge may also be appointed by politicians, not judges. That's what the Court's ruling is all about. Just pay attention to the fact that if you have to appeal to such arguments that the Court has stated something, it means that, however, you assume that this condition is very important for a judge's appointment. It's true. It can't be any different. This condition is very important at the jury's appointment. In the absence of it, if we did not have this ruling of the Constitutional Court... I understand you've allowed it to be examined. Now step one. I won't, because it's not necessary for my argument right now, he's appealing to the arguments raised. This was mentioned yesterday, e.g. by a judge of the Court, Judge Wyrembak, concerning the procedures to be followed in this Court. I think that would weaken your deep conviction that we should take this assumption as sacred holiness. Although, from such a purely formal point of view, you have the right to claim that the final judgment of the Court... Only the senator doesn't consider one more factor that's very important in his reasoning. Even with your assumption, this must not be examined from the point of view of the compatibility of the provision, which is intended to protect the independence of the courts and the independence of judges, with the Polish constitution. This does not mean that, at the same time, as if a lime is eliminated the possibility of testing compliance with European law. That is what the TSUE said in its judgment of 19 November. What else is the examination of compliance with the Constitution, and what else is the examination of compliance with European law. I said in the course of my argument that the constitution is the highest right for me. Yes, sir. But it's nothing. does not prejudge the fact that the Constitution should be accumulating, absorbing all values, human rights as regards compliance with European law. However, some values may not yet be absorbed at a certain stage. Then, of course, you can't test it. the compatibility of the provision with the Constitution, and sometimes it is necessary to examine compliance with European law. Because both standards must be met. I know. I'm way ahead of you. I think you've asked that question to two or three people in this room. Are judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union a source of law? I answer as Minister Warchoł replied: they are not. He was right. They're not the source of the law. Except it doesn't end the answer. They are not the source of the law, but the problem is that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, like any judgment of the court, read the law of the European Union. It is they, it is always the judgments of the courts that give the law a certain substance. What we've got. That's what I'm saying again. It's written in the form of sometimes two rows, sometimes ten rows of letters, that's not the law. This is the dry text of the bill. This dry text of the Act is entitled to the right only as a result of the interpretation of the judicial authorities. That's the role of the courts, that's when the law is born. Here we are dealing with a recipe, this is lex, courts read ius. And, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it may be that the Court of Justice of the European Union, like any other tribunal and court itself, is not the source of the law, but is the source of the law, what, as a result of the judgment of the court, of that, of another, will be read as a standard from the wording of the rules. The difference between the recipe and the norm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u233	Thank you. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, literally... I won't bother the president anymore. No, no, no... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, but briefly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u234	I hear the cheers of encouragement. Mr. President... I'm in good shape. ...a very simple question. If this were the case, the TSUE on an individual case would determine that the person concerned is not a judge. We are talking about the status of a judge, not the seat of a court, and according to Polish law, according to the Constitution, it would be stated that he is a judge, which is the sentence we apply? Which judgment, because of course it doesn't have to be a sentence. Tell me,
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u235	There you go, yes, of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u236	Senator, I'm not giving an abstract answer: yes or no. Why? Because you did not include in the question, in the premise of this question, for what purpose would the Court of Justice of the European Union say that the person concerned is not a judge. If this were a right which was not taken into account by the Constitutional Tribunal, I would, of course, respect the judgment of the EUSF, because these are equivalent, next to each other, orders. I have to respect one order and the other. Only if one order, for exactly the same reasons, contradicts the other order and this would not be compatible in any way, would I be right in the Constitution rather than in European law. Me, personally, as judge and Polish, and European. Only that I'll put a dot over and Please, this is actually a purely academic discussion at the moment, which could be transferred to some seminar on constitutional law, European law. Why? Because the Polish Constitutional Tribunal declared the constitutionality of the accession treaty. And you will not invoke the senator, and none of the other senators will invoke in this discussion the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that the Constitution is incompatible with the Constitution. What's he authorized to do? Some treaty, that is, that has exercised this competence. There's no such sentence. And since there is no such judgment, it is not possible to use the argument that the Polish Constitutional Tribunal found something compatible with the Constitution. Only if it were found to be incompatible and I was to apply this Treaty standard would it create a problem for me as a Polish and European judge. As long as the Constitutional Tribunal has not found any non-compliance, I have no such problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u237	Thank you. Mr. President, now you're Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u238	I'm only going to ask one of the questions I was going to ask due to the passing of time. We're focusing our attention on common courts, so maybe I'll ask you a little bit more. In these amendments, the general assembly of judges of administrative courts loses influence on the appointment of judges of those courts. This is the solution we have in the case of the Supreme Court. How can you assess the functioning of this solution in practice?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u239	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u240	Not so good, Senator. Not so good, to put it mildly. And I think when it comes to the powers of the administrative courts... well, I don't want to take away Mr. Drachal's bread, which he's still waiting for, and he's probably looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. Now you ask Senator Józef Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, first of all, I congratulate you on your physical and excellent language, the beautiful language you are able to convince the unconvinced so far. But to the point. I was approached by a lot of so-called residents. District Poland, those Poles who are most dissatisfied with what they find, from how they are treated in our courts. Hope for these people, mainly for farmers, the victims, those who have been deceived, and things go on for 10, 12, 14 or 15 years and the end can't be seen... The Disciplinary Chamber was a spark of hope for them. And I would like to ask: why are you denying the introduction of this Disciplinary Chamber so much? After all, no matter where we work, we are rewarded for good work and for bad discipline. And I think it's about this. I'm not a lawyer. The role of the Disciplinary Chamber would come down to this. This is the first case. Second thing, but it's the president's opinion I'd like to ask. 'Cause, you know, like... I am personally concerned about the answers of the President of the Court. Namely on questions whether he participates in demonstrations, he often answers that he does not. I'm already abstracting whether these are political manifestations or not. Does he have a candle? No. And it's shown that it does. One last question. What worries most, I think, the main majority of Poles, is the situation in France. The journalist asks the president's question, and the president cuts off, says, "I'm cut off from the outside world, I don't know anything about what's going on outside the borders, and what's going on in the country, I know." And one last thing. Defining the march of the torch and chain... For me, for most Poles this outfit is sacred, it means justice. And the president, when normal residents ask how you can walk in this outfit, answers, "Togs are just aprons." So I ask, what am I supposed to say on my beautiful Kujawy? Last week of the carnival, the costumes show up. Is it possible to dress up in a robe and get involved in this series of costumes? I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u243	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u244	First of all, Mr. Senator, don't expect me to issue censorships or grades to the first president. He is in this office in my opinion very worthy in very difficult times. When it comes to such matters, whether to say whether you were attending a convention or holding a light in your hand or not, I always hold on to the fact that you have to talk about what happened and what you thought was right. I did not hide in 2017 that I took part in this assembly before the Supreme Court and that I held at that time, in a very important case for the court, a light of hope in my hand. It turned out that then Mr. President partially recognized these rations, in a very large part. Well, unfortunately, after the story went down, we all know. And that's what I said, I was on the March of the Thousand Thing. However, if you ask me whether I was in a toga, I answered: I did not, I did not put a toga. Why? Because I'm raised in a very traditional sense of the judge's ethos, and even when I come out of the conference room and sneak through that side corridor for a while to the department secretariat to check something out, I take off the toga, because that's what my judge's conscience tells me to do. But that doesn't mean that I think that the fellow judges who took part in this march... But it's about the president. ...in the toga... As far as I know, the president was, but I don't think he had a toga either. Mr. Senator, I completely justify this, although, as I say, I did the opposite. Comparing this with the setting-up of a toga, as you say, to some carnival or something, I don't know, this kind of folk situation, it's not just an unacceptable thing for me, and I think it's generally unacceptable. However, I would not want another example to be drawn under this. I know that it was the subject of various types of controversy, when judges in the best faith organizing, let us determine this, educational and training hearings, simulations of trials, going to schools, going to young people, they assumed toga. And that wasn't a desecration of it either... It's a whole other thing. It's a whole other thing, yeah. But you used... It all depends on the situation, on the context. There are contexts in which I think there is It's absolutely ethically acceptable. What about calling a gown a gown? I already told the senator I wouldn't judge that. Every one of us... Oh, no, no... Any one of us can happen, I'm sure it's happened dozens of times this afternoon, well, maybe not dozens... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...some kind of language lapsus commit. I understand that this will then be used for years to come. I'm sorry, sir, because I missed the first part of the senator's question. About the Disciplinar Chamber... Mr. Senator, it's not like... ...that she's a spark of hope for those who have suffered the most. After all, I have already answered such a question that it is a myth, really a myth that judges have not yet been subject to any disciplinary responsibility. Well, it wasn't really like that. I know that. Senator Staroń will have numerous examples that something did not quite work out in these disciplinary proceedings. I say again, with full openness, that I do not claim that all judgments were hit. Only that, in order for disciplinary responsibility to take place, there must first be a disciplinary officer, must be brought... I can discuss on the basis of specific matters, so that we can understand each other well. If you show me such a case in which the disciplinary court, the old disciplinary court, has given a judgment to purify the blame, and it turns out that it gave the judgment wrongly, and you convince me that in the new disciplinary arrangement this ruling would certainly be different, then the discussion will be different. But there's really no way to make that evidence. It's the cassians' stuff again, the case stuff. I will conclude with this statement that it may be very important that there was such a great hope with this new body, but on the other hand, on the other hand, everything that has unfortunately been noticed by international bodies in terms of the activities of this body, and what has been done, and what has been done differently, by international bodies, has been evaluated. Ladies and gentlemen, we would have to go back to all the wordings, to the particular wordings that were contained in the judgment of the TSUE and in the Supreme Court judgment of 5 December, which are details... You may disagree with them, but at the same time I see very strong reasons. And that's not right. For us to understand each other well, although when it comes to individual cases, maybe this statement is not quite precise, speaking against judges in this Chamber, and this does not apply at all, e.g. judges from the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, in which this Chamber sits in my opinion many very outstanding, yes, I will even use this formulation, outstanding lawyers. What's the big deal if it's on the second plane? Not in the second plan in the sense that on the next plan, only next to it, at the same time we have what was repeatedly called the original sin in this room, right? You have to see both. I will therefore not throw a stone at any member of one or the other body that we are talking about at the moment, but I am still referring to what my court, the Supreme Court, and what my court, the Court of Justice of the European Union, is, because the Court of Justice of the European Union is also my court, has stated that these bodies are at the source of their origin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u245	Thank you, Mr. President. Would Senator Lydia Staron like to ask you a question? Because I have conflicting information here. Thank you. I wasn't supposed to ask... Yes? There you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u246	...but because the president wanted me to ask, it's only because... No, no. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. President, I'm going to say this: actually because you've been talking about it, I want to ask you this. First thing: you were talking about judges. The first question is whether the court is well, properly filled or not. ♪ For so many years ♪ After all, you think and always have been the basis of, among others. Article 2 439, if I remember correctly, right? Yes, art. 439. Yeah, yeah. So you've always checked... Yes. ...exactly... Yes. But what did you check? You've checked the documents, checked if the court is properly filled, which means who's in storage, whether it's this court, whether it's that person, so to speak... whether it's the competent court, whether it's, just a moment ago, you said, the competent delegation, right? It's been like this all these years. And for the first time, the first time in Poland changed that the judge And that's different. He challenged the status of judge, yes, the status of judge. And you know very well that this is completely different. In a situation like this, you could say... Because you said yes, but we can also check on a senator, somebody else. You mean us, if... because when do you become a judge? That's when a vow is made. Right? Then that person is a judge. Yeah, well, it's not before. The fact that she's already got her exam, that's... that's when she's not. Only when I say so... is he really a judge. Because what else is the end of science or the end of this path... is the same with the senator. When do you become a senator? When there's a vow. The fact that the election is over... That's when you're a senator when there's a vow. That's when you're a senator. So for me, what you said was... Indeed, it is another matter to question the status of judge. 'Cause if we're looking, which is to see if we can build... explore the way. Counselors, lawyers, notaries, bailiffs, for example. There's gonna be a judge on the examination board... So you're gonna be checking, right now, are you a counselor? So it's not gonna be the same as it always is, which is that the basis is the document, but you're gonna ask, right now, but you're gonna be counsel... no, no, no, I have to check it out, because there was a judge on this board, and this judge is the judge, which means the nomination was by the president... This is gonna be ridiculous! It will be absurd, which will be a paralysis not only of the justice system, but also of Poland. That's what I think. And the cost of that is... Actually, we don't know what they are. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. That's the first thing. And the second thing I'd like to ask you. Because we were talking about... You were talking about judges and that independence is most important here, this independence is the basis, independence is the basis. But it's not the same as impunity. It's true, isn't it? It's not the same. So this independence, independence, it's from the beginning... What's it for? That if the judge recognizes the case, from start to finish, to sentence, then there can be no pressure. Right? He's independent, he's independent just to make a decision. And this decision is just knowledge, independence, all the good things. But it can't be like this... And it's not just a matter of independence from power, but it's also from... because there could be groups of interests, of all kinds. So we say it can't be the same... There can't be impunity. And what you just... Because the senator just said this opportunity, this opportunity, this change in the Disciplinary Chamber... so it wouldn't be as it is today. And the president said it wasn't bad today, because there are disciplinary proceedings. And I'm gonna say... You said I certainly had examples. There are so many examples, I can mention them to you like a litany, but that's not the point. 'Cause judges are people too. It's just that there's decency... Oh, not decency, but, as I say, consent to it, consent to impunity. That's what this is about. And even the first one... Senator, I would very shyly like to draw your attention... But the question is... But why is that a 10-minute question? Ask me a question. Okay? The first question was... The point is, so to speak, undermining the status. That was the first thing. And here's the president... Good. And the second question, and the third... The second thing is the matter of the chamber... It's about disciplinary action. And I'd like to add, but since... Okay, that's one more thing about these examples. Mr. President was talking about it, so it's hard not to tell if he wanted me to talk about it. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u247	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u248	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, to your first question, not you, but a few people, I have answered several times, and I therefore consider your speech more as a voice in the discussion. Of course, well, I understand the assumptions you're coming from, but we're missing out on the assumptions. I just want to make one thing very clear that we're different. Namely, the senator was gracious to express the opinion that it is the very moment of the oath to decide that someone becomes a judge, and I am saying that it is decisive to go through a proper procedure covering both of the conditions set out in the article. 179 constitutions. I have nothing more to say about it. It's over. In turn when it comes to the second part of the statement, it is full agreement, Senator, that independence and independence cannot be impunity. Yes, it is. Absolutely, they're just two different planes. I would like to say that I am very afraid of this type of generalization, which was only one sentence, I understand that with good intentions on your part, namely, that so far it has been, as the senator was gracious to say, such lawlessness. Well, it's not, and it wasn't. And this assumption, so firmly established in the minds of men, perhaps for this, and not for another opinion of the courts, unfortunately also follows. I would also like to emphasise with all emphasis that it is equally important... alongside the so-called component. the internal independence that you referred to, the one that every judge carries in his heart and mind, is an equally important component of this It's called different. External independence, i.e. so-called. objective factors conducive to independence. And one of the fundamental factors conducive to external independence is that judges should be as far away as possible. In both the nomination procedures, in the sense of... no, also the sources of their previous links with the executive authority Well, unfortunately, the trial participants, those parties to the trials, which on the other side will have as an opponent primarily the state office, the Treasury, will look at the judge coming from the environment in a completely different way a month, 2 or 3 months earlier strongly connected with this state office, which will stand on the other side. It's got to be one thing and the other. That is what the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u249	Ladies and gentlemen... One more minute, please. ...the judge is standing on the stand for 3.5 hours. If you ask questions that aren't within a minute, I'm gonna have to order a recess for your judge because some suitable... I'll be fine. You'll be fine. It's okay, it's okay. Mr. Wadim Tyszkiewicz, then Mrs. Lidia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u250	Judge, I have one question, very short, because I respect your time, and I am very admired for your attitude. I have a question for you. It rained here a few times... You were talking about distinguished judges. I started wondering who thought the judge was outstanding. What I mean is... it seems to me that in a democratic system, the judge is an outstanding judge, decides that there are publications, history, trials, and outstanding judges choose between themselves an outstanding judge, and in an undemocratic country, the party commissioners choose, say, this judge is outstanding. That's the first question: how do you think, how do you find or choose... Who should judge that the judge is outstanding? Second, very short question. Now that we're saying the judges are wrong, that the courts are wrong, can the Disciplinary Chamber be wrong, and I'm gonna tell you the wrong thing. Don't you think that if the judge made a mistake and the Disciplinary Board judges him, then shouldn't there be a disciplinary board evaluating the Disciplinary Board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u251	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u252	I'm answering the first question. Mr. Senator, let me straighten you out: I wanted to use the formulation of prominent lawyers because I stayed with two or three judges, which I do not hide, the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs in very good knowledge, and with one of them, I can say, even in friendly relations... I think he's an outstanding lawyer, but I look at him a little differently as a judge because he's decided to run for office in these circumstances rather than in other circumstances. And that's the answer to your first question. Second question. I will try to answer them just as briefly: of course I do. Every court, unfortunately, like all human activities, assumes a margin of error. And that's why I talked a little bit about it, answering the senator, and the senator. A child's belief that once we establish an E.R., which we call the Disciplinar Chamber, there will certainly be no mistakes, that it will only be eternal happiness itself... This is a false assumption and in my deep conviction it's not true. But can the Disciplinary Board make a mistake? Well, I'm just saying, anyone can make a mistake. Mr. Senator. And on that basis, I understand, of course, that you said it with a joke. You can imagine the so-called. Infinite number of instances. Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u253	Thank you. Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u254	Mr. President, it's not funny to me, it's sad to me. For me, when people come... And it's not just one person, it's been thousands of people all these years. I can tell you this is a river... That's why I'm talking about it today, not because it's some kind of laugh. If it's ironic. No, it's hurting, it's suffering. And it's very often that people don't have property, housing by judges. There are many examples, but I will say this: unfortunately, if there was no consent, if this were not the case, none of us would have talked about it. Nobody. And now you've been talking for a while, I don't know if anyone else... There's this very decent judge from Olsztyn who wanted to... Well, he's been investigating this trial about undermining the status of another judge. And I had a case to do, so to speak, with this court, and it's about that judge. That judge earlier... Besides, I've just filed a motion for disciplinary action against this judge. Why am I talking about this? Well, he says he's very decent. Today it is an icon for you, for judges, and an opportunity to examine the road when it comes to undermining the status of judge, and earlier this person, this judge... I'm not even gonna talk about this for a very long time. I'm just gonna say that the farmer. In fact, this person has already died, the victim For the land, for the house, for the economic buildings... There was supervision of the execution proceedings, as far as the court is concerned, that judge had supervision, and for 29 grand, so to speak... Mrs. Senator... ...the farm was sold. But... Senator, ask me a question. Well, I've already... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But you said... Mr. President was talking about this situation. Good. Do you have a question? Then ask that question. So that's why I'd like to end... This case has already been cleared. Finally, I'm gonna talk about it anyway, but I just want to... Don't you, Mr. President, feel like there's a permit? That's all. I mean, you could perform... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u255	Good. May I, Mr. Marshal? The farm was in debt... You're welcome. ...for PLN 300,000. That's not true. Very briefly. Yes, please briefly. It was... Because that's what the other judge said.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u256	Mrs. Senator... I'm gonna have to tell you... If you don't mind, Senator... At not one moment during your questioning and at not one moment during my long presence at the platform, I didn't say that something was funny to me. Just once to unload this atmosphere of fatigue, we entered into a little joke, but connected with something else entirely, not the problem that the senator was talking about. I'm taking everything you're saying with the utmost seriousness. You've known me for years, you know how much I value your work. I wonder only for moments if it isn't such a coincidence that because you actually became such an icon of the victims of the justice system, to which people from all over Poland are really looking with their problems, issues, you have I'm not accusing it, I'm asking myself that question. However, a little bit worked out, even in the best faith, a sentence, I would say, too exaggerated about these iniquities. However, it hurts me very much to say that I am very hurt to say to the President of the Supreme Court that you believe that this is an admission. I'll tell you why. Madam Senator, I answer: of course, there is no permission from me or my colleagues from the Supreme Court, and from those who have so far ruled in disciplinary proceedings, and from those who will rule in future disciplinary proceedings. I don't believe there's anything like this permission. And the last piece. I'll be very brief. You know, I don't know the role of your judge. We have to talk about him, so to speak, with an open head, because he's a public figure, he took the role himself. Juszczyszyna in this, let's say what happened in the past. Just understand one thing. Namely, separate what happened in the past... And if something was wrong, then it was necessary to refer to this iniquity, as it were, and... ♪ And I'm ♪ I did. But I understand that... there have been proceedings before disciplinary authorities or they haven't been there? I don't know. I don't know this case. Why am I talking about this? Because, in my opinion, such a projection, such an exposure to what happened, to the step that the judge we're talking about did before I don't remember exactly. In a month's time, this is a mechanism that I find very difficult to accept. Because I think these are two completely independent cases and they should be judged as two completely independent cases. I assume you're right about something... I really want to wear this with the greatest amount of goodwill. But that doesn't mean that about what happens five years later, I have to have a critical assessment and say, "Well, he wasn't allowed to do it." That's how I read your statement. If it's false, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u257	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u258	One last short question. Well, we're talking about the sustainability of judgments. Mr. President even used such a statement that these judgments might in some sense be threatened if the composition... maybe not the composition of the court, but the legitimacy, the status of the judge would be incorrect. But I see a logical contradiction here. As long as it wasn't possible, which is to test the status of a judge... Unless she was before? Maybe you can get me out of the way. How many cases have there been in which the status of a judge has been investigated? Again, not the courthouse. These are two different things. Well, that wasn't possible, and no one was worried that something might happen to the procedure. And now here's the thing. I say state, that is, the party that opts against the law to introduce the possibility that any judge will be able to examine the status of another judge, i.e. whether he has been properly appointed by the President. And then you say it's supposed to limit or shorten the procedure. I understand that this status test is not going to be that simple and that it's going to lengthen the procedure. Isn't that a logical contradiction? You're demanding a law that... If you admit it, it'll be like a contraindication to what we're all about, which is that things should be dealt with more quickly. Maybe this is some kind of logical error. I'd ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u259	There you go, Judge. As for these questions to the Platform, don't explain it to the senator because... Please? There are also some questions for the Platform... No, no. I'm sure I won't answer them. What questions to the Platform, Mr. Marshal? No... You want to do that, it's directed to the Platform. No, no, no, no. There you go. Maybe I'll calm down. It wasn't like that. Because it would be difficult in this mode to answer your question. There you go, Judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u260	I certainly wouldn't answer that question, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, first thing. I don't know about this kind of thing. Honestly, I answer. But I don't know because there was no source of that kind of doubt. If there were a source of such doubts, that is, what is in the contents of the article. 187 constitutions, it came out earlier, perhaps the problem would have arisen earlier. It's just that. Second thing. I was talking about protecting proceedings from the point of view of what could happen in the future if European bodies consistently maintained... I no longer want to develop this whole thread that is related to the judgment of the TSUE. If such a position were adopted following further complaints, including complaints from the European Commission, it would indeed be a threat for the future. And it is not known at what point it would be revealed and the need to correct the error. I thought your question was something else. I think it was included in the subtext. If we, while trying to prevent what might explode in the future on a large scale, try not only to investigate, as you say, the status... Although, as I say, the examination of status does not merely mean that I deprive a judge of the essence of being a judge, because I do not judge, I do not say: Janie Kowalski, I do not consider you to be a judge. I just think that he was in this squad as a person... And here I would have to repeat all the conditions resulting from the judgment of the TSUE and define such a person as a person whose independence or, better said, shortcomings in the objective affirmation of independence raised doubts about her ability to be a judge in a particular case. Now, the senator will say, "What about all the decisions that the judges have given us?" I see this problem, you can't miss it. Have they been released? For example. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I don't know. This is a very serious problem. This is the colossal chaos that has been introduced, as I say, not by the will of the judges. Who brought it in? Well, Mr. Senator, not by the will of the judges. I'll say one thing. However, you may have to try to solve the whole thing in some way, although it seems to be a square of a circle. But I will remind you that the eye to the eye with such a square wheel, although on a much smaller scale, we stood in the Supreme Court a few years ago in connection with the so-called. Minister Gowin's reform. Then, on the one hand, we had, as you remember, to defend certain constitutional values and to stand very strong on their guard, and on the other hand, in this so-called back room, but in parallel, there were dozens of judgments that were handed down by judges who did not hold back from judgment at the time, only ruled. After all, you know what resolution the Supreme Court adopted at the time. We're gonna make those judgments... I admit it was a creative interpretation, but it was made in the public interest, in the public interest. We said that, in this respect, Minister Gowin's reform was in breach of the basic law, it violated certain provisions of the law on the system of common courts, but we saved those judgments, because we said that the failure of such powers could only work for the future. Can this be done right now? I don't know, Senator. I'm just saying, sometimes you look for emergency solutions. But I also want to say that everyone expects the judges to find solutions that will protect both. Or maybe it's worth asking yourself whether all three authorities should not participate in the search for a solution, e.g. in the form of a bill which I do not know the assumptions, but I know that there are some works going on in connection with it in the Senate. To be honest, with enormous, perhaps no interest, because interest is such a subjective element, such a personal element, connected with curiosity, so not in that sense... With interest as a citizen, with social interest I look forward to what solutions you will propose.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. There are no more questions. Oh, there's one question. No. There isn't. Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u262	Mr. President, I have a question for you. I'd like to know how you feel about art. The 3rd Supreme Court Act. Do you, as President of the Supreme Court, recognize all these chambers that are mentioned there? You're the president, you're the judge. Don't you see the problem? Is it that any court may question the presence of you in the formation of the court? What position would you take in such a case if another Supreme Court formation tried to question your status in some Supreme Court composition at the time of judgment?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u263	Mr. Senator, I'm responding. There you go. You asked Senator Marek Komorowski a question. I find it very difficult to answer a question that is a little bit: what if? But if my status was questioned, I would say that if the person who questioned this status, first of all, did so in a judicial judgment, and secondly, referred to very important reasons arising from the Constitution's provisions, whether it is from the provisions of European law, and showed what reasons were in favour of such justifications, it was not tautologism, it was the use of the same wording, but once in the form of a right as an argument, and the second time in the form of an argument in favour of this argument, and especially if the ruling of an international authority or of my own court, the Supreme Court, had shown that I was not a judge... Although it wouldn't sound like that. Why? Because that is not the case in the judgment of the Chamber of Employment of 5 December, it is merely said that the Disciplinary Board is not a court meeting the requirements of the Article. 47 Charter of Fundamental Rights. So this is not related to the status of individual judges, but to the Chamber as such. These more personal conditions are taken into account only in individual questions affecting the form of specific questions and this abstract question addressed by the first President. If, for example. The court found that the Criminal Chamber, in which I rule, is not a court fulfilling the conditions of European law, that I would try to speak with full seriousness, not to aggravate the chaos until the whole thing has been decided in a definitive manner by some more, so to speak, the enlarged composition of the court, or it will not be decided in the form of legislative assistance in the intersection of this Gordian node. Personally, I wouldn't hesitate to refrain from ruling. That's my position. And I think this is a judge's position. That's all I have to say. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u264	Do you still want to ask the senator a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u265	I mean, I purposely asked that question because it's easy to talk about someone, maybe harder about myself. We are, of course, talking about a possible hypothetical case. However, do you not think that in such a hypothetical arrangement, of course, it could then be assumed that maybe earlier rulings were also affected by a defect? However, do you not see, in this connection, the danger of opening the so-called. Pandora's cans? That's one thing. And another case. Is it known somewhere in the European system, because we are talking about European systems, that one court undermines the status of a judge of another formation? Do such solutions exist somewhere in Europe? And on what basis, however, can this prerogative of the President be undermined in such a procedure of ordinary judicial proceedings? And you didn't answer my question about art. 3. Do you recognize Art. 3 in this sound, which one is it? These chambers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u266	Good. I'll start with the last question. The problem isn't in the article. 3, Mr. Senator... I know he's not... This article... I know he's not... Really. Allow me to respond in accordance with my conviction. The problem is not that two new chambers have been created alongside the Criminal Chamber, the Civil Chamber, the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance. That's exactly what the legislator was absolutely entitled to. This is what we call freedom of modeling by each of the EU countries... The problem with how the personal storage of these chambers has been shaped, and the problem with how it projectes and whether it projectes on the so-called. objective conditions for the independence of the judge from the point of view of social acceptance. And that's all. Therefore, I am art. The 3rd Supreme Court Act, of course, I accept. Such chambers may exist in the Supreme Court. That's a very simple answer. In turn, in view of what was said at the end, I can only repeat once again how I personally would have behaved. I honestly answered that question to the senator. Is everyone supposed to share my views? I really don't feel like anything more than who I am. I'm not saying everyone's supposed to think exactly the same way I do, although I think it would be safe, just safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u267	Thank you very much. Does the senator have another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u268	One more thing. I understand that this question was a difficult question, and I will no longer bother your president with the answer, but on this one point that I have asked, I have not received an answer. Well, I don't have that kind of knowledge, and I'd like you to answer in the Senate. In what European system is there such an institution that one judge has the right to challenge the second judge's composition with regard to the appointment of a judge? Is this an innovative solution in the Polish legal system? Well, judges would just start questioning the appointment of another judge by the president in legal mode. Do such solutions exist somewhere in Europe?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u269	Mr. Senator, I think this is the situation. not only very similar, but quite identical to the one that Senator Czerwiński was asking me about, namely, whether something like this had ever occurred on the basis of our internal law. I said, "I don't know about this case." I answer your question: I am not familiar with such a case, but at the same time I must this is to be supplemented by this additional condition, which I also referred to in response to Senator Czerwiński's question. Theoretically, if there were or materialised similar premises which, in fact, most of the legal world felt materialized in connection with the situation over which we are all deliberating... After all, not only do you do it, it was analyzed in other forums much earlier. Well, I can't rule that out. What would be the conduct of other courts in other countries with similar or identical premises? I don't know. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u270	Thank you very much. No further questions. Mr President, thank you very much for your perseverance. [[Applause]] Over four hours. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next guest who would like to speak is Vice President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Judge Janusz Drachal. I would very much like to ask you to take the stand and take the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u271	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the invitation and the opportunity to speak. I will talk about changes in the system of judicial action in general with some selectivity. Namely, I will raise these issues which concern the administrative judiciary, and that is because administrative law is still reaching into our lives. Just as civil or criminal law is not always the case, so is administrative law always, starting with taxes, through local fees, ending even with administrative penalties... Because in the system of law they are being replaced by administrative sanctions. We can say that administrative law is very strict in our lives. Therefore, the question of what means and capabilities we have to defend ourselves against the excessive interference of the state... I will draw your attention to the fact that administrative judiciary is a particular type of judiciary. Such a characteristic element is that administrative courts recognise disputes between the State and the citizen. Between the state and the citizen. The essence of this relationship is the inequality of the parties: the state has a strong, dominant position, the citizen has far less opportunities. Therefore, the administrative court will have to compensate for this damage to the legal situation of the citizen. The State has the possibility to make law, apply law and enforce it, the citizen has a complaint before the court, possibly by appeal. And the administrative court must, under these conditions, ensure effective legal protection for the citizen. In other words, it must be possible to deliver a judgment which will be able to really shape the legal position of the citizen. The administrative court must ensure effective protection, and the citizen is also very important It must know that there must be this value in the awareness of the citizen, that he is facing a court which is independent and independent, that if this court gives its ruling, it will result from the legal situation of the citizen, but will not be an expression of any external pressure. For this, you need 2 reasons. Firstly, the citizen must know that the court to which he is going is independent of the executive authority. Because it is the executive authority that will be the other party to the dispute before the administrative court, and the third will generally not be. And secondly, the citizen needs to know that this court has the authority to handle the case. In other words, an independent court must still have an instrumentary that will allow the case of the citizen to be settled and a definitive conviction whether it is correct or not. I would therefore like to draw attention to a number of points. If I were to accept what I said, it would be a desirable order. Or would it have to be assumed that these are the basic, elementary rules of ruling, how are the proposed legislative changes in this order? It should be noted that these proposed legislative amendments, however in many cases, are, in many areas, the same in relation to the administrative courts, as well as the general courts or the Supreme Court, sometimes have different effects due to the particularities of the justice system in question. And I would like to point out that those issues that could be defined by legislation, e.g. the prohibition of questioning a body's position or the inadmissibility of examining specific issues, in this law, are legal principles. This is extremely important from the point of view of judicial review of the administration, that these are not accidental provisions which involve a certain phase of proceedings. This is, you can say, a complete ban on taking specific actions. E.g. the inadmissibility of questioning is such a single breath that it is said that the courts of tribunals, state authorities and control and protection authorities are empowered. For now, I will leave this first part, namely the cognition of courts, judges and tribunals. I will focus on the status of state authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are doing, which is the essence of judicial control of the administration: examining the status of the authority that is in power Or maybe he's not capable of imposing legal obligations on us. In the proceedings before the administrative court, the jurisdiction of body X may be raised for the adoption of decision Y. This is a very, very typical charge. The Administrative Court shall have the possibility to examine the grounds for the body to issue a normative act. This applies to acts of local law, even resolutions. This concerns the examination of the scope of the mandate granted by the law to a specific minister who issues a regulation. The judges are bound by constitutions and laws, they have the right to refuse to apply the regulation in a given case, of course, if it results from inappropriate... if it exceeds the limits of the legitimacy laid down in the law. These are very important things. It must also be borne in mind that the courts are also examining the grounds for issuing an administrative act on the application of the law, i.e. an administrative decision. We often decide on the admissibility of a court of law before an administrative court, examining the authority's power to issue e.g. the administrative decision. If it turns out that this is not the case, the act will be civil law activities. And this is a completely different court, a completely different effect. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not now able to consider the position of the body to make the relevant administrative decision, then in situations And there are situations where there are really a lot of them on the basis of economic administrative law. When the organs operate within the so-called. Administrative recognition... The body examines the matter in substance, e.g. when issuing licences, permits, decisions in the field of this economic legal trading, and the body shall act within the limits of administrative recognition. It is assumed that he is responsible for a given area of social relations, that he knows how to do it, and therefore is granted the right to act within the limits of this administrative recognition. If the courts are not able to examine the position of the body and its capacity to act, it is from the point of view of the body. Now the examination of the substance of the decision will consist in examining the discretionary decision of the court that will really have nothing to do in the event of a complaint against that decision. A citizen, a businessman, lodges a complaint with the administrative court, is a formality. It would also have to be a formality to give a ruling by the court to dismiss this complaint. I ask you, if this situation were to be taken into account in the judicial proceedings, it would significantly limit the right of the citizen to expect a fair judgment from the court. Examples, so to speak, can be multiplied from the past. Forty years ago, because that's what post-war administrative courts have been counting, administrative courts have analyzed, for example. the legal status of the Council of Ministers and it came to the conclusion that it was not capable of issuing spontaneous resolutions which would impose certain obligations on the citizen. Please note that such reasoning gives the citizen guarantees that only strictly defined entities may impose certain obligations on the ordinary citizen in a strictly defined manner. The same applies today to the authorities empowered to issue local laws. If one considers that, regardless of such an attempt to change the system of the judiciary, there is a systemic change in the administration... because the case of a citizen before the office is slightly different from a civil court case. Citizen... First, his situation is shaped in the administration, there is this principle of double examination of the case usually in appeal proceedings, and then we have the right to a court where we evaluate all that has been done in this procedure. This structure of administration is changing in such a way that instead of the review bodies of such hierarchical ones, which are not subject to one another... this structure is replaced by bodies with such flat characteristics, horizontal characteristics. What does that mean? This means that, from the point of view of appeal, the same body once again recognises the case of a citizen. It is important to aim to ensure that the body's personal composition does not repeat itself, but there are such institutions, e.g. the managing authority, the management board of the voivodship, where administrative decisions are issued, by force, in the same or very similar composition, involving the same members in specific economic programmes. This certainly improves the organisation of the administration, but it certainly does not guarantee the citizen that his case has been identified by an independent body. Why am I talking about this? Because then this sort of rescue plane is the administrative courts. It's the damage, the lack of objectivity... He may not exist, he may not exist, but the citizen has the right to demand that he feel properly, honestly, safely judged. Therefore, the courts must ensure this to the citizen on behalf of the State and they bear the responsibility for the citizen to be properly tried and the judgment in his case is fair. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these restrictions, e.g. in the area of the examination of the status of the body... This standard is very broad, it has to be pointed out, it is very broad, so it is undoubtedly the administrative courts, and more precisely the matter that administrative courts deal with, so it must be taken into account by administrative courts. This explains why we, judges, are so clearly talking about this, I am thinking above all about administrative judges, precisely about the limits of State interference in the independence of the courts. Second thing. The administrative procedure shall be two-way. The court must certainly examine the case within the limits of the appeal, and therefore all legal arguments raised by the citizen or the trader must be considered by the court. They must also be dealt with by the court for reasons which the law requires to be taken into account by law. And here I come closer to what has already been very widely discussed, but this case also concerns the administrative courts, and I would like to draw attention to the inadmissibility of the examination of the correctness of the appointment of a judge, the inadmissibility of the examination of the correctness of the appointment of a judge. This fact may be the subject of an action before the administrative court, this fact may be the subject of an action before the Supreme Administrative Court, here I am thinking of a cassation complaint. There is a duty to hear the case before a court of second instance to the full extent, and therefore there is an obligation to hear the case also within the limits of that plea. And now this prohibition precludes such conduct: it is unacceptable to examine the correctness of the appointment of a judge. Plus, there's a definition of a judge. My esteemed previous speaker was kind to say it, and I share that view. However, I note that this definition is functional, i.e. Some of the conclusions that follow the ban on this issue are based on this. And now we have to answer the question of how the court should react, what the judgment is to be given, and how does it feel to be a citizen who asks about these issues, and for some reason is right. After all, the appointment of a person as a judge is not just a matter of the operation of procedural rules, it is still a matter of some very clearly defined material reasons. Of course, it is generally the case that no one is in breach of these material conditions, but if this were the case, there would be such circumstances as would apply to a judge appointed in a formal manner, but there would be a plea, a reasoned plea or a reasonable suspicion, a reasonable uncertainty that this judge is not independent... Well, then, we have to refer. We live in this European world. We judges are bound by certain procedures, certain rights in the field of European Union law and not only, and we have to address certain issues. Namely, the European Court of Human Rights made it clear what the essence of this matter is. If someone refers to an article. 6 The European Convention on Human Rights, which gives everyone the right to a fair hearing by an independent court to obtain a judgment in this case, must be some way of determining whether this court which was called upon to consider this case is a competent court which fulfils these conditions. And here the ECHR makes it clear that in the event of a flagrant violation of national law, someone has to investigate it. As regards the selection process for judges it cannot be claimed that this does not affect the respect of the standard of jurisdiction of the court established by the law, the standard resulting from the Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. That's one thing. The second point is that the Court clearly states that, in examining these requirements of judicial independence, we must examine each time how judges are appointed, the duration of their term of office, the guarantees concerning external pressures, the presentation by the court of the so-called "court." appearance of independence, i.e. whether or not this independence is real. Whether an authority has judicial status determines such features as the statutory basis of action, the permanent nature, the compulsory nature of jurisdiction, the adversarial nature of proceedings, the application of law and independence. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that in these discussions you are trying to resolve these problems in a kind of primal way. Is the judge called in this way good, or can he be questioned? And what will happen to the judgments handed down by these judges? On the other hand, the Court's caselaw has led to a slightly different conclusion, as if otherwise the accents were spread out. Namely, from this case-law of the Court, it appears that the court has to answer these questions, that it is in the jurisdictional process that we are to answer whether the judge is capable of ruling or not, and not in the legislative process. And I think it's worth signaling. Second line. It follows from this caselaw that the result of this examination is to be directed towards whether a person X, Judge X, meets the standard of independence, even if he has been wrongly appointed. So I think it's worth pointing out here that in this discussion we shouldn't go through elements that would standardize it in an extreme way, i.e. That if there was a mistake on the way of the judge's appointment, that judge can't rule, and his judgments won't be valid. Right? The Court speaks of a gross infringement, but says: investigate this gross violation of the law, because it may encode the judge's inability to give a proper, safe judgment. This is, I think, quite an important element of the discussion: it is to be done by the court and it is to be done in the interests of independence. Of course, there are questions in the discussion about what it's going to be like, if it turns out there's a legal obstacle, and if we can actually think that this judge is going to be... well, if we find a judge incapable... we'll question a group of judges, then we won't know what to do with the verdicts. Well, it's a terrible thing, citizens' rights are suffering because we have some shape, quite decent legal situations. Ladies and gentlemen, such situations have been in the past. After all, the situation was similar to that of court assessors. The Constitutional Tribunal said it was wrong, but it weighed some rations and also said that we believe that the assesons who delivered these judgments had been properly established, i.e. that these judgments are correct, effective. But this condition cannot be maintained for the future. Therefore, it is impossible, as if from the past, from those supposedly irreversible effects which, as it may appear, are reversible, to conclude that it is possible to pass a dry foot to the second stage, to think that nothing has happened and to do so. This is what the Court draws attention to, and European law draws attention to. I think that if you look closer to these issues and some precedents, e.g. At the Constitutional Court, it turns out that this case does not look as dangerous as it might seem. Why am I talking about this? Because, of course, this is a certain clue, a directive, a matter that should be addressed by the legislator, because it would be good for the legislator to deal with it, but there is also a directive and a problem that we judges have to deal with. Because we are judges who are European judges, we are bound by our legal order and we are bound by European order. It's not like it's an unsymmetrical relationship. Because, on the one hand, we are bound by the legal order of the European Union, but on the other hand, we are shaping its legal position, or more specifically, its members' legal position. I run the Chamber of Commerce, I deal with matters of administrative economic law. We issue binding decisions based on directives or other acts relating to road transport not only in Poland, but for carriers from all over the Union, and our decisions are honoured. We are therefore also the judges responsible for the proper application of European law. Please understand that the indication of legality as to independence must be taken into account by the judges. We do not have an easy situation in this regard. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. I'm gonna want to be brief because it's pretty late. Namely, in the discussion about the relationship between these two legal orders, I am thinking about national law and European Union law, there are some shortcomings in the legal discourse in this regard. It seems to me that this problem in the discussion involves, as it were, opposing European national law and national law to European law. I think this is the wrong way. The problem is a little apparent. We sometimes refer to the sources of law, ask what is more important, whether the Polish law, the Polish constitution, but forget that national law should be compatible with European law. And that's pretty important because these two systems are based on the same axiological assumptions. The judge is obliged to apply European Union law. European Union law sets minimum standards for the legal protection of the citizen. Therefore, it is not so that it determines in an absolute manner the national legislator and the authorities operating in the State, because it sets certain minimum standards. The Polish legislator can always raise the individual's rights to a higher level. The only thing that matters is that if European law sets certain limits, these are the limits that go down. You can't give up the independence of the court, you can't give up the independence of the judge. This is, of course, an outline of this, if necessary, in the context of the discussion, I would develop it. As far as disciplinary proceedings are concerned, as this is also an important issue, the doubts raised by the judges of the administrative courts are that the judge is liable disciplinaryly for the application of the law in judicial proceedings. Of course, this does not mean that we are looking for areas where the judge will not be responsible for the violation of the law. That's not the problem. Namely, it cannot be so that the law which is the basis of administrative relations decided by judges, the law which is the basis of these relations, is at the same time a disciplinary matter. Because then, as if these mechanisms were excluded and the judge in such a situation, instead of giving a ruling in accordance with the standards, he would begin to wonder if he was committing a disciplinary measure. In addition, it should be noted that the principle of liability of the judge for the actions of the court has been adopted here, and in this respect we are dealing with different formations. The judges in the three-person or seven-person assemblies make a resolution, there is the secret of the meeting, there is a ruling... The meeting is covered by a secret, and there is no obligation to write a separate sentence. And then it turns out that all of these judges would be entities as if they were disciplinaryly responsible for the decision they adopted, which could be held in force at second instance. This shows that these matters cannot be connected so closely, because such a state of affairs will be regarded as excessive interference in the independence of the judge. There are other issues, such as the binding of a legal assessment where the case is referred to the court again for review and where the decision of a higher court is binding. This also applies to separate sentences. Can a judge make a separate sentence in a situation where he disagrees with a judgment? And now the question arises as to whether a separate sentence that does not have any effect on the matter at issue is merely a signal of the judge's dissatisfaction, or whether such a separate sentence is a statement of the view in which, for example, it is contested. Wouldn't it be a matter of responsibility to fill out a government body? I will draw attention to a few more grounds for disciplinary responsibility, but I will be very brief in this regard. Namely, I chose, noted 3 such grounds: refusal to apply the law in a situation where the Constitutional Tribunal did not find that the act was incompatible with an act of higher order; actions challenging the existence of a judicial relationship or the effectiveness of its appointment are the second basis; and, thirdly, actions or omissions which may prevent or impede the functioning of the judiciary. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulty in applying these rules will be to use them... In the first case, i.e. in the case of refusal of application of the law where the Court of Justice did not find it incompatible, the difficulty will be that of the judgment given by the Constitutional Tribunal in that case. If the Court has said that everything is in line, we will have a clear situation. But we still have range, interpretation and application sentences. Therefore, the judge who asked the Constitutional Court and received a judgment of scope or interpretation will have to decide, in his own conscience and according to his own legal knowledge, whether a given part of the standard or a given standard, whether the provision of the law in this particular case will apply or not apply. And that depends on many different factors and conditions, they will certainly be based on the justification of the judgment itself, but they will also be based on the state of the case under consideration by the judge. And if this is to be a disciplinary matter, then this freezing effect, which will cause this situation, will certainly not serve fair justice. Next: actions that call into question the existence of a service relationship and the effectiveness of the appointment of a judge. I actually mentioned it, she was talking about it. I don't think such a question should be, because of what I said, subject matter or reason for disciplinary action. And now the findings... In light of what I mentioned... Findings on the status of judge in a given case are the duty of a judge arising from those judgments or obligations which the judge cannot relieve. In other words, he must answer such a question. If a citizen raises a question about the merits of taking part in this judge's trial, the court must be able to answer him whether he is right or wrong. Too general a basis for liability for this third event, namely actions or omissions which may prevent or significantly impede the functioning of the judiciary. I would like to draw attention to this, which has already been mentioned, but I would stress that these are actions or omissions which may prevent or significantly impede the functioning of the judiciary, and therefore this is a very uncategorically defined premise. It's a very uncategorically defined premise, as in this context. Can disciplinary action be initiated? Disciplinary action is not a kind of procedure that we initiate, and actually this judge may not be worried, because there is no judgment yet. After all, waiting for his case to end causes a lot of stress. All of this is not best served by the pursuit of the truth, the pursuit of the matter in accordance with standards, and in the field of national law, and in the field of European law. In the case of administrative courts, it may also be considered why the participation of general assemblies and colleges in the appointing of judges has been excluded. These are the bodies that actually provide us all with some knowledge about the candidate, sometimes the knowledge that is more available in court than anywhere else. Namely, we are dealing with judges who judge within the delegation, and this environment knows something about it. I don't really understand, and it's not just me, why give up the source of knowledge. If such an opinion had been binding, there would have been no direct effect on this appeal, it would have been feared that the environment was not very subjectively judging this judge. But this is one of many possibilities. If we have as the target model to obtain such a judicial staff, which will be professional, then why rid ourselves of such procedural elements against which such knowledge could be obtained? The Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Administrative Court. This is the case when it comes to interference in court proceedings, in the structure of the court, in the system of courts, that there is a directive which requires us to refrain from too much interference, i.e. the executive authority may intervene in matters of the judiciary when necessary, when there is no other option, and in such a way as to remain in proportion to the result obtained. Then we get this effect of respecting the third power. The Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Administrative Court were adopted by the General Assembly of Judges in the form of a resolution, it was duly published, it was the legal act which regulated the internal organisation of the administrative judiciary. The provisions of these Rules have never been challenged. Nobody's ever laid down complaints that the Rules of Procedure make it difficult to work, that it is a source of delays, certain errors in the operation of the judicial administration. As if this basis had not been challenged, the way in which the rules of procedure were adopted. At the moment, the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Administrative Court will take the form of a President's regulation, which requires a countersignation of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, in turn, is the head of the government administration whose authorities are subject to scrutiny by the Supreme Administrative Court. My question is, is this necessary, and what is the benefit of this? So that the Supreme Administrative Court in its opinion drew attention to this issue. Me, because I understand there's not much time, I've limited it to the most important ones too. However, the Supreme Administrative Court has pointed out this and concludes that, however, the provisions of this law violate constitutional standards and also violate EU law. In fact, if you look at it from the point of view of the individual's rights, then... These provisions certainly do not contribute to improving the protection of these rights. Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would any of you senators like to ask a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] And please address our last guest. Mr. Ombudsman, Professor Adam Bodnar. Please, welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u273	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! As ombudsman, I have a duty to uphold the rights and freedoms of man and citizen. The right to court referred to in Article. 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in Article 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights and Article. 47 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is one of the most important civil rights. For various reasons and by various means, the right to an independent court has been challenged in Poland for at least 3 years. During this time we have seen, as a state, numerous critical opinions from the United Nations bodies, from the Council of Europe, the OSCE, including the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union has expressed its views on these issues four times. The last sentence is dated 19 November 2019. There are several preliminary questions raised by Polish courts. There is a request from the European Commission for an infringement of the Treaty because of the functioning of the so-called disciplinary mechanism. In this regard, it was two days ago that the European Commission submitted or announced a request for a provisional order to the Court. And it is quite likely that in the coming days the Court of Justice of the European Union will recognise this proposal. The Act of 20 December 2019, which is the subject of the Senate's work, has already received criticism from national institutions and international institutions. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has issued a position on this matter. An in-depth opinion was presented by the OSCE Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. We also know that Poland was visited by a delegation from the Venice Commission. I had the honour to meet with the representatives of the Venice Commission and to convey to its members comments on the bill. I also know that both minority and senate representatives met with the Venice Commission. And from now on, the opinion of the Venice Commission has been available since morning. I would like to draw attention to this because this is the first case when the opinion is presented before the law was adopted, before the legislative process ended and therefore the opinion has the opportunity to reflect on whether the Law of 20 December will ultimately become the law in force. The earlier opinions of the Venice Commission, which were issued and which concerned the Constitutional Court, the law on the prosecution, the various powers of surveillance or the National Council of the Court of Justice, did not have such an opportunity. I would also like to point out that citizens express their concern about the situation in Poland, as part of the protests on the streets, about the demonstration of the 1000 Trog march was an expression of symbolic opposition. But also non-governmental organisations, legal authorities, deans of the law departments. My observations show that the actions of the judicial authorities so far have not changed in terms of improving the functioning of the judiciary. With some exceptions, I admit, because, for example, on issues such as cross-border cooperation in family matters, there is significant progress, but in principle we see prolonged judicial proceedings. I would also like to thank the Senate of the Republic for an in-depth debate on the Law of 20 December 2019. You bring back the meaning of the concept of "parliamentalism." A good law should be forged slowly, with due regard for the various arguments. In this context, it was very important to invite international experts and to listen to their views on the comparative arguments, because it is unlikely that it is the citizens of the Republic of Poland, people who have finished their law in Poland, to speak about foreign law, to hear what foreign experts have to say about their legal systems. As regards the Law of 20 December, I would like to draw attention to the particular context and the time when it was proposed. This follows the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019 and the judgment of the Supreme Court of 5 December 2019 following it. These judgments clearly indicate the need to rectify the Polish system of law. And in the face of these threats to the legal system, in the face of threats to the right to an independent court, we should expect action to remedy the legal situation, we should expect initiatives, especially legislative ones. I'll talk about them later. We should expect actions taken in full responsibility for constitutional order. However, since then, we have actually observed repression against judges, which consisted in the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, the dismissal of delegations or the suspension of judges in the performance of their duties, and we have also noticed the discrediting of representatives of the judicial authority by representatives of other authorities. This problem has been repeatedly highlighted by the UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of the judiciary Diego García-Sayán, who observed the situation in Poland, that other authorities should not undermine the authority of the judiciary as one of three authorities. Another element was the introduction of the bill and the adoption of the law by the Sejm on 20 December, a law that would deepen the state of the rule of law crisis. I would like to stress that the rule of law crisis is not neutral for citizens and for the economy, because any disruption of the guarantee of the right to an independent court can affect the respect in the European Union of the principle of mutual trust, which is the basis for the DNA of the functioning of judicial systems and cooperation between them. In the absence of a solution to the current crisis, this will mean the possibility for the courts of other Member States to fail to recognise the judgments of the Polish courts, as well as the lack of cooperation with the Polish courts. This will affect the activities of our courts in the context of criminal, family or private law matters. Let's imagine a few situations. We have discussed the European arrest warrant on several occasions during meetings of the Senate committees. It is an institution that allows people suspected of committing a crime to be brought to Poland. Following the judgment in LM, the Court of Justice of the European Union established a double test A test which, on the one hand, evaluates whether there is general respect for the right to court, i.e. whether the criteria relating to the independence of the courts are met and on the other hand whether these criteria affect the situation of a particular person. This caused the principle of automation to be abandoned. This test has not been carried out before, it has simply been recognised: yes, these are the exact same courts that exist in other Member States that meet the same criteria. The courts of some Member States are already investigating whether we are dealing with an independent court. For some of these courts, at the first stage of the test, it is stated that yes, we are actually dealing with a problem concerning the independence of the court, while for the latter part of the test it is found that this does not affect the situation of a particular person. And that's why I'm making arguments: nothing's happened, nothing's happening... But after the entry into force of this law we can probably expect that not only the first condition of the test will be fulfilled, but also the second condition, i.e. simply people will not be issued to Poland. Disruption of automation is already a problem, and after the adoption of this law it can turn into the fact that people will not be issued to Poland. What's more, it's a distortion of automation. I am talking about this because this argument is, you can say, explored in the public debate It already significantly delays the arrival of a person in Poland because the court of the sending State has to investigate it, and it does not take a month, two, but sometimes many, many months and the procedure cannot be completed. Finally, let us think of parents who argue about children who were born in cross-border relationships. Let us think of a mother from Poland whose court has granted custody of a child, but will not want to recognise a court in another Member State precisely because of the threat of the rule of law. Or think of Polish entrepreneurs who obtained sentences against their contractors in Poland, but these sentences will have to be enforced in other countries. And all of a sudden it may be that the courts of other countries will say: there is a problem, we will not enforce these judgments. Or think of companies that violate competition law in Poland. They compete with our entrepreneurs and violate, for example. trade marks of the trader. In Poland it will be possible to obtain a judgment, but later it will not be recognised in other countries, because European cooperation in the field of competition protection will be distorted. This is also a very distant perspective, these are concrete examples. But what I think is more important is not just talking about certain scenarios, but thinking about the fact that the adoption of this law will lead to further erosion of the democratic rule of law, which will reduce citizens' sense of justice and equality towards the law, will increase the risk of corruption precisely because of the lack of sense of justice and accountability of some people. There is no democratic state in which there is an imbalance between the authorities in favour of the executive authority. For who, in such a situation, is to be the guardian of the rulers, if not the courts? Who is to protect the people from the power of the rulers? These are important questions and I have the impression that, in the context of discussions on the various provisions of the Act, they should not come out of sight to us, because unfortunately the law will be moving in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth looking at what the law changes in the existing regulations. The law is extremely extensive and complicated, so it is impossible to present all threats in a short time. Besides, President Zabłocki has taken many points into account. I'd like to draw attention to two cases. On the basis of the Act, the powers of 2 Supreme Court Chambers are significantly increased: the Disciplinary Chamber and the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. It is worth remembering that these two chambers were created and filled in 2018 by the President of the Republic as a result of the recommendations and procedures carried out by the National Judicial Council in its new composition. It is to these chambers that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019 and the judgment of the Supreme Court of 5 December 2019 and the judgment of the Supreme Court of yesterday, 15 January 2020. And you can ask yourself about the purity of the designers' intentions. Why are these two chambers being strengthened by new competences? Why, for example? The Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs is to become such a superisby which will have the right to make specific verification decisions? And here we come to an issue that seems to be one of the most crucial issues to be discussed, because the law significantly limits the possibility of verifying whether the authority is a court or whether we are dealing with a judge. It appears that the project seeks to exclude from judicial review the legality of the appointment and operation of judicial authorities, as well as the legality of the appointment to serve as a judge. It can be claimed that its purpose is to prevent the courts from directly applying both the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the judgments of the Supreme Court, those 3 judgments which have already been delivered. And the question arises as to how this applies to the principle of primacy of EU law, how this applies to the principle of loyal cooperation. From the discussion that's been going on here so far... I think it's worth referring to her, not repeating the same arguments. She was basically, so that I could see her, to think about the status of the President's appointment to serve as a judge, the appointment that gives the judge a mandate to adjudicate, and to what extent that mandate could be undermined. As we will look at the opinion of the Venice Commission, it is clear that this is one of the points that seems crucial throughout the opinion, because in this opinion the Venice Commission draws attention to the arguments of the supporters of the law. This is what he says: the supporters of the bill that we met with, as I understand it, were representatives of the Senate minority, so may be the result of the text of the opinion and the follow-up of public events, pointed to all the arguments relating to the fact that there is a presumption of legality of such appointment and therefore it cannot be contested. The Venice Commission points out that this may be a reasonable approach, but even if the President's decision to accept or reject a candidate for a judge is not subject to judicial recognition, the Polish courts still have a duty under the European Convention on Human Rights and European law to ensure that only courts meeting the requirements of independence and impartiality can judge cases. So we're going back here, you could say, to the cloud of the problem. Yes? On the one hand, we have the legality of the vocation, but on the other hand we have the requirements of European law and the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights. Okay, but what is the court supposed to do when someone asks him to examine the legality of such an appointment if he has doubts about the cast of the court. And these are problems, Dear High Izbo, which are considered not only in our national context. It can be said that a similar problem has now been raised at the level of the European Court of Human Rights, because the Grand Chamber of the Court is dealing with the Ástráðsson case against Iceland, which concerns a similar problem, namely the large or excessive influence of the executive authority on the judges' appointments. I would like to point out that in Poland we had such problems. In my opinion, the most crucial, most important thing that we can even try to compare in our own way to the situation, a case where our legal system had to deal with the resolution of a major conflict and had to face the potential risk of legal chaos, was the case, already mentioned by President Drachal, of court ruling by judicial assessors. The court's attorneys ruled that they were being held in custody, that they were considering complaints about dismissal, that they were ruling in civil matters, and sometimes not even the small ones. I remember that for the first time I was interested in the problem of asessors, as I learned that the asessor was ruling on a person known to psychologist Andrzej S., who was accused, one could say about actions against minors. It's extremely serious, but it's been assigned to an asessor. And the case was challenged in various ways, mainly through constitutional complaints, and went to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 24 October 2007 had to deal with the problem of what to do with it, on the one hand, how to verify the institution of the assessors in terms of compliance with constitutional standards, in particular the independence of the court, the independence of the person ruling from the Minister of Justice and, on the other hand, what to do with the fact that earlier the assessors had ruled in tens of thousands of sentences? How can we avoid legal chaos? The Constitutional Tribunal faced this in two ways: firstly, it postponed the entry into force of the judgment, which allowed for the adoption of legislation in the meantime; secondly, he said: The Judge-Rapporteur was Prof. Ewa Łętowska The fact that a much greater harm to the justice system would be to undermine everything that has happened so far, so that we must in some sense assume that it has been so, but that the effects of the judgment, because of the stability of the legal system, are reaching into the future. Moreover, the case was later brought to the European Court of Human Rights, and we had two judgments in the case: Henryk Urban and Ryszard Urban v Poland. The Strasbourg Court agreed with this, adding, one exception: if it can be shown that in a specific case a judge could have had... that the influence of the executive authority could have been large enough to influence its ruling, then a test will be created which will allow the individual judgments to be challenged. But as a rule, the Strasbourg Court accepted Polish solutions. My point is that we in the Polish system of law have a way of getting out of this kind of trouble. We have a constitutional tradition that allows us to do so, because this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was not challenged and, you can say, the wisdom that came out of it... And I'm talking about him because when there are allegations of how to get out of this conflict and out of the deep trouble we're in, ♪ I think it's gonna be okay ♪ It's worth reaching for what we discovered in our own almost earlier. And I'm talking about this because it seems to me that all of us, discussing these particular solutions, are wondering: well, what's going to happen next, so whether it's going to get worse or if we're going to continue to go into this, you can say, conflict in which our justice system is plunged and which is causing more and more chaos. or, as the Venice Commission has said, an increasing schism In our justice system? I will return to that in a moment, but I would like to show here that these issues concerning the status of judges or judges have been the subject of earlier reflection in our public debate. And speaking of the comments on the law itself, I would say that we should not underestimate the principles on which EU law is based, particularly the principles of loyal cooperation, because these principles are in order to ensure that we operate effectively and, we can say, coexistence within the European Union. However, it seems that some of the solutions adopted actually give rise to the special power of the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs, i.e. that in some ways all the dilemmas concerning the status of judges are to be resolved by the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs. Here we have some problems with this, because on the one hand, the control chamber is presented as this, one can say, the most important of all issues concerning the consideration of the independence and impartiality of the courts are to be in her hands. On the other hand, we have a whole range of problems that arise. Because if anyone has reservations about the cast of the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs itself or the status of judges who rule in it, how is the Chamber supposed to rule in its own case? On the other hand, if we look at the article. 26 §3 of the Law on the Supreme Court, we will see that this provision says this: "The application referred to in paragraph 2 shall be left unrecognized if it includes the determination and assessment of the legality of the appointment of a judge or his power to carry out judicial tasks. So, on the one hand, these issues are to be considered and, on the other hand, the conclusions are left unrecognized. So the question is, is it really... On the one hand, this Chamber is designated for this purpose and on the other hand, there are different methods that make it impossible for it to do so. You could ask yourself about the intentions of the legislator. If the legislator may have wanted to set up a specific body to deal with these statuses, then why didn't he set up chambers whose history dates back to the interwar period, e.g. Chambers of civil law or chambers of criminal law, i.e. those who have many years of experience? I'll leave that question open. Not only are the institutional arrangements we are discussing very important in this law, but also the fact that the de facto act aims to ensure that judges are repressed in various ways for the application of Union law, in particular as regards the verification of the status of judges. In my view, the law is part of the long-standing exercise of power by creating a freezing effect on judges in order to discourage them from applying EU law and asking preliminary questions. As my spokesperson, I am already observing several dozen investigations and disciplinary proceedings in which various actions have been taken with regard to judges. It is worth adding, because this is a novelty, that recently not only is used to these disciplinary charges the issue of possible breaches of ethics rules, but also criminal charges concerning the excess of powers are added, art. 231 criminal code. The analysis we carried out at the office shows that if we looked at this question asked by the Supreme Court, which led to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November, i.e. that question for a preliminary ruling which led to this fundamental judgment, we would conclude that it would have to be dismissed under the law and that disciplinary action would have to be brought against the judges of the Supreme Court who asked the questions would have to be brought before them. So we're talking about this issue. With some concern, I recall my own words from the conference which was held in 2017 and which concerned the principles of the rule of law in the European Union. There was such a large conference at the University of Warsaw, organized with the Max Planck Institute, at which I said: we will come to such a time that the judges for a preliminary ruling will have disciplinary proceedings. Then everyone looked at me with a certain doubt, and basically the bill goes that way. The law aims to ensure that EU law cannot be applied in this respect. I would like to stress that the provisions of the Act which relate to the freedom of expression and the freedom of judges to associate are also very dangerous. I would like to stress that it is clear to me that judges have limitations on speaking on different subjects. As far as issues of social policy, defence, foreign policy are concerned, as long as the judge does not have a specific case on his desk, there is virtually no other opportunity to comment on the subject. By issuing judgments, justifications, possibly commenting on his judgments, he may comment on certain issues. What's more, sometimes I even wish politicians would listen to what the judges have to say. I would like to point out that in the reports, for example, the Supreme Court, every year there is a part about the demands on the legislator, where judges point to various shortcomings that should be corrected, and then perhaps there is no such listening to these words. And when it comes to speaking about the essence of your profession, about the status of a judge, about constitutional principles, we are dealing with a completely different situation. It's not just a law, it's an obligation. This is an obligation arising not only from the status and care of constitutional standards, but also from the fact that judges understand how the legal system works, and because of their education they understand how different issues relating to constitutional law should be interpreted. Moreover, they must also express themselves in situations where this status is being called into question. In my opinion, this is not a policy, it is an activity that serves the defence of civil rights. The judges realise that if the status of their independence is reduced if they are deprived of this independence, they will lose citizens. If we silence judges, we actually silence citizens because citizens no longer have the tools to defend their rights. When we look at the standards of the European Court of Human Rights... The Bak case against Hungary. In this Chamber, we discussed it from a different angle, we discussed it in this regard, whether the term of office of the Supreme Court President could be shortened. So that this example was cited. In this regard, we will also consider whether the president of Baka, András Baka, was able to express himself or not to exercise his freedom of speech. The European Court of Human Rights said: it is, by all means, its right and its duty to speak about the issues that pose a threat to it. If from this perspective we look at all the provisions of the Act according to which the judge can respond and in which there is a set of disciplinary acts, unethical acts, and if we add to this a perspective which we cannot avoid, namely the perspective of very specific cases which are taking place in relation to those who speak... We can't lose sight of it. We are not discussing abstract rules, we are discussing rules that we may already have some suspicions about based on our experience. It's worth remembering. I would like to point out that disciplinary decisions can reconcile freedom of speech. I would like to draw attention to one of the many provisions which is in the law, and which maybe because of the accumulation of various emerging arguments, is not noticed, is not the main thread of the debate. Namely, a very interesting solution is the obligation to disclose the belonging of a judge to judicial associations. There's no question about it. The Venice Commission also writes about this, and I wrote about it in my opinion presented to the Senate. It is clear that this is contrary to human rights standards, because judicial associations are a bit like trade unions, i.e. it does not necessarily have to be disclosed to everyone because they belong to them because they play a similar role in protecting the rights of judges. Furthermore, in my opinion, High Izbo, which I presented to the Senate, I quote that the information about the judge's membership of the judicial association is subject to the protection of personal data, and this is the opinion of Judge Łukasz Piebiak published in 2013. So this is not a new view, this is a view that appears in doctrine, one can say, for many years now, and it should not be endured. This is important, all the more so since disclosure of such belonging may serve specific purposes. I would like to point out that there are many detailed provisions of the law that can be discussed, but I would like to say something that follows from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November and which is sometimes not visible. Namely, it is often said that we are dealing with a cumulative effect. It is not that we have a perfectly functioning justice system in terms of independence, and we make some resolution that changes something, we introduce some special powers of a disciplinary officer, we change something in the construction of a single chamber, we add some disciplinary measure somewhere, or we increase disciplinary responsibility for delinquents. We are dealing with a situation in which a number of institutional changes have already been made in relation to the cast of presidential positions and not only in common courts, with a change in the National Council of Courts and the election of members of the National Council of Courts. Yesterday's words by the Minister of Justice, we have reported, indicate that, however, the executive authority had a significant impact on who was a member of the National Council of Courts. We have certain procedures carried out by the National Judicial Council and additional changes are imposed on all of this, which are introduced, i.e. there is a kind of cumulative effect. This is insanely dangerous, because this cumulative effect causes a really violent and serious threat to civil rights and freedoms. To conclude, I would like to say that I regard the bill as clearly negative as a law that violates the constitution and violates the fundamental principles of the Polish legal order as a law which is contrary to Poland's obligations towards the European Union, and as a law which accords with the guaranteed European Convention on Human Rights legal protection. I believe that the adoption of the law may call into question Poland's participation in the legal dimension in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, that the law will lead to excessive review by the executive authorities and, consequently, to a reduction in the level of judicial protection of the rights of individuals. I am convinced, and I repeat this once again, that the adoption of the bill is the way to legal polexit. I stress: legal, legal polexitu In other words, Poland's exit from the European Union in respect of respect for the fundamental principles of the rule of law, to extricate our membership from the essence of building a legal system based on the principle of cooperation, mutual trust and respect for similar standards concerning the rule of law. And the question arises. If we have this conclusion and if we have so many critical opinions, what do we do? I believe that the solution is in the hands of those who have legislative power. This solution should be based on agreement, should be based on deep responsibility for respect for constitutional order. This solution should refer to the tradition of the Round Table and the restoration of round-table rules as regards the cast of the National Judicial Council, i.e. the selection of members of the National Judicial Council by other judges, of course with corrections which result from the passing time and our greater understanding of what this should look like, i.e. increasing the influence of citizens and increasing transparency of the selection of candidates, so that the maximum choice of the National Judicial Board is linked to the sense of influence on the functioning of this body. I'd like to point out... If this doesn't happen, we'll go on, you can say, going deep into the crisis. Moreover, our actions should consist in seeking a solution that could correspond to the implementation of 2 functions If we don't take these steps, he'll get worse. There were proposals in the press on how this crisis could be resolved. I think it's worth remembering. It also seems to me that the opinion of the Venice Commission is not just a criticism, but an expression of deep concern and concern, so I read it. Once again, I stress: this is a very serious moment of responsibility for correcting our constitutional order. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u274	Thank you very much. I've got two senators reporting for questioning. Senator Alicia Chybicka would like to ask you a question. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, You said in your speech that if this bill were passed and the division of power ended, civil rights would be violated. Your statement showed that the courts would not function better, but rather worse. Speak in plain language. To those who listen to us, what damage will the ordinary, simple citizen suffer after the introduction of this law. And second question. Mr. Spokesman, if this bill passes, I hope it doesn't. Is your office gonna be able to handle a lot of complaints? If civil rights are violated, your office will be flooded with complaints. Is he gonna hold that weight? What are you practically gonna do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u276	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u277	Dear Senator, Professor, the second question I will answer is this: we will see, perhaps I will not experience it. My term of office is going to endlessly and perhaps my successor or successor will have to deal with it or have to deal with it. I would like to say that there are signals already that may indicate some problems. Note, for example. for statistics on the use of provisional arrests. Temporary arrest is the moment at which we are dealing, so directly, with the interface of the prosecution's interest and whether the judge is actually independent. It is not without reason that the Constitutional Tribunal, as it ruled on the assistants, referred to temporary detentions. The prosecutor, of course, has an interest in demanding arrest, and the judge is to be guided by the grounds when the arrest is actually necessary for further proceedings. Well, the court is under pressure. If we create different types of mechanisms of influence on courts, on individual judges, then it could lead to the fact that the courts would be much more likely to apply arrests. They will not take into account that, in a specific situation, the person concerned will remain at large and ensure the proper conduct of the proceedings. As we look at the statistics of the Court Watch Foundation, we will note that the number of temporary detentions has doubled since 2015. So you could say that from the time that this number was really powerful, by 2015, it was falling, and now it's increased massively again. But it is worth noting that at the same time the level of crime did not increase, it is not that we suddenly have mass crime that would cause this increase in temporary detention. A question about an average, simple citizen. I know, I understand the intention of the senator's question, but I would like to say that this is not the case, because each of us can be this ordinary, simple citizen, each of us can have a pension problem, a problem with access to some benefit, a problem with the fact that an administrative decision is hurting us, we can have a compensation process against the state, we can be an entrepreneur. In my opinion, there is no such thing as an average citizen, each of us interacts in various ways with the state authority, with other citizens and needs legal protection, legal protection in domestic matters, in cross-border matters, and this legal protection must be based on the fact that when we go to court, we have a guarantee that the court is independent, acts only on the basis of constitution and laws, we have guarantees that there is no possibility of exerting external pressure on the judgment, moreover, that when a judgment is delivered which will, of course, pass the in-house review, this judgment will continue and be enforced. Now on any level we can have... The threats to the independence of the judiciary are such that these fundamental principles for the functioning of the rule of law are at stake. And if we're looking for the concept of an average citizen... You probably know better, but there are a few million cases that are being dealt with by the courts, and you never know when and which case will be one in which the authorities will have any interest, or there will be some informal links, or there will be an influence on the courts, which will cause that the judge will not act naturally in a given case and this freezing effect will have an impact on the ruling. So that I would answer that question, Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u278	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. I would like to inform you that there are further questions for your spokesperson. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka also asked questions. These questions, Mr. Ombudsman, are a little more than that, I wanted to give you a heads-up. Okay, good. I'm asking the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Law and Justice politicians are increasingly scaring us of the loss of sovereignty resulting from their membership of the European Union. Government representatives are increasingly telling us that they will not respect the solutions of the European Union, solutions that are also developed by Poles in the European Union, by Members of the European Parliament, by ministers and Prime Minister in the European Council and the Council of the European Union, and also by Commissioners in the European Commission. I would therefore like to ask what is the situation of the sovereignty of Poles and Poles resulting from their membership of the European Union. And my second question. On the one hand, under the pretext of judicial reform, the government is introducing increasingly dangerous solutions that could lead to the loss of our membership of the European Union. On the other hand, the public expects judicial reforms, especially now that the proceedings have increased and judicial fees have increased in the last four years. I would like to ask what steps really need to be taken in the implementation of the judicial reform so that the beneficiary of these reforms is a citizen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u280	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Ombudsman to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, A sovereign decision to join the European Union was taken by the Polish people. It's been agreed to that. This consent has its constitutional basis. Moreover, this was then subject to review by the Constitutional Court and a judgment was delivered on the accession treaty, which confirmed the compatibility of the legal basis for our accession to the European Union. The whole decision and the whole accession process are the result of our sovereign decision, and that is what we should stick to, that it was done in accordance with the Constitution. Moreover, we are constantly participating in the process of European integration and have an impact on the decisions taken, representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Poland sit on the bodies of the European Union. And let's treat The European Union as part of our political and legal system, and let us not use excessive words for what the Polish people have agreed to. With regard to judicial reform, it is worth recalling that the fact that this subject is of interest by the European Union is the result of Article. 19 of the Treaty, which obliges Member States to ensure effective legal protection. This effective legal protection means that it cannot function in the European Union if the basic conditions concerning the independence of the judiciary are not met, in fact the same conditions which were the subject of analysis at the time when Poland joined the European Union and are now being reviewed on the basis of Article. 19 treaty. As far as judicial reforms and the extension of proceedings are concerned, I would point out that there are a number of different aspects and technical issues which should, above all, lead to the recovery of judicial proceedings. I guess it's the simplest example. With all due respect, Minister, this is something that the Ministry failed to do, I have a clear conscience because I have led many speeches on this matter. This is, for example, a regulation of the issue of judicial experts. It didn't work. We still do not have a proper regulation on judicial experts, such as to ensure better quality of experts, better verification of their qualifications, and perhaps the possibility and greater remuneration, and the imposition of discipline on judicial experts by courts. This is one of the causes of chronicity. I have recently seen a person who, for this reason, is looking forward to an opinion for several years and the proceedings are being extended. Strengthening the courts as regards assistive services is something very desirable. Continue investing in IT reform of justice. In family matters, for example, it is very important. cooperation between family courts and teams of specialists who are evaluating cases for the purposes of family courts. Because even if the court works effectively, waiting for an opinion takes a very long time and this is what the parents' rights environment is complaining about. Finally, what is a problem is that there may be sudden events that suddenly cause a burden on certain courts. For example, in social security cases, the District Court in Warsaw is currently under a heavy burden. In the same way, the court in Warsaw is mostly charged in cases concerning franchise. This requires not only, you can say, more organizational efficiency, but also sometimes the acquisition of new judges, and we still have vacancies that hinder the recognition of certain categories of cases. So that I would say that these reforms should come down to a number of different, very detailed organisational solutions, but there is one condition for them to succeed: there must be not only an idea, not only a knowledge of how to do it, but trust and continuous building trust between executive authorities and courts. Because the courts do not have their own access to the budget, they do not have the possibility to carry out legal acts, and justice activities focus on other matters. And I would like to stress that I do not accept the Ministry of Justice as having good ideas and success on some issues. I praise all to e.g. reform of non-alimentation. 'Cause I'm gonna fix the article. 207 criminal code was necessary, and I think it's eliminated a lot of problems, fixed a lot of problems. Will cooperation in cross-border cases be improved here at least? I'm not saying that I'm one of those people who would say that everything in the ministry is wrong. Nevertheless, it seems to me that if this trust were really deep and decent, it would be easier to carry out those reforms that actually serve the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u282	I ask you to ask Senator Marcin Bosacki a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, Mr. Spokesman. Thank you for being here so late. I'd like to put a dot over Senator Jazłowiecka's question. Do you see any solutions in this bill... This is, moreover, a question that I have already asked government representatives during committee work. Do you see in this law, whose muzzle objectives we all see, solutions that will actually improve the judicial system, which will increase the access of every citizen to the right guaranteed both by the Polish Constitution and by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, namely the right to a fair trial in independent courts and by independent judges? Do you see such organizational or structural solutions in this bill? That's the first question. The second will be even shorter and more detailed. Namely today we are dealing with a decision, with the opinion of the Venice Commission. You said I agree with that, too. That this law will complete the legal Polexit of Poland from the European Union. But the Venice Commission is something bigger than the European Union. This is a body, which also includes countries not belonging to the European Union, the United States, Canada as well. One of the authors of this opinion of the Venice Commission today is a member of the Venice Commission representing the United States, Mr Paolo Carozza, a valued American lawyer, and also a longtime associate of several popes and a member of the Papal Academy. But I would like to focus on this transatlantic, American issue. Don't you think it's conflicting? What do we hear today from Minister Ziobra with this opinion of the Venice Commission, we are on the path not only to polexit legal from the Union, but also to polexitu legal at all from the western community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u284	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Ombudsman to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u285	Dear Senator, of course, in preparing an opinion on the bill, we have focused on what raises our doubts. The opinion is extremely complex, it has over 50 pages. And here's what I'm going to say: creating an opinion, we didn't look for positives in this bill. What's more, well, the accumulation of these elements that bother us was big enough that we focused on them. And now, at this point, I wouldn't want to look here or point... Because it seems to me that from defending the bill, these are the authors, or Members, who signed up for the parliamentary project. As far as the Venice Commission is concerned, in fact, the committee consists of representatives of 62 states that form the Venice Commission. The fact that it is wider than just the Council of Europe 'Cause it might seem like it's just the Council of Europe, but other countries are also coming in here 'cause it's largely related to a wave of democratisation that crossed the continents in the 1990s. In this connection, there are also members of the Venice Commission, which necessarily do not belong to the Council of Europe, but for example. they are more related to the OSCE, in particular the United States and Canada. And it is worth noting here that the opinion that has been presented today is an opinion prepared also by members from Ireland, France, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Finland and Sweden, as well as from the United States of America. I think I'm going to address this question about Western values. That the Western values are values consisting of the division of the authorities, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression, the relationships based on mutual control and balance between the different types of authorities, and the law makes a decisive shift of accents towards the executive authority, due to this cumulative effect resulting from previous changes which have been introduced in Poland. And from this point of view it also affects those generally understood, you can say, democratic values associated with Western civilization.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u286	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Klich's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u287	Professor, there is a lot of room in our discussions that has been told that there is an instruction that has been sent to the prosecutors to respond immediately in the event that the judge or the court is acting with reservations as to the legality of either the participant or another judge or another court before this law has been adopted. Did this information come into your hands? Do you have a copy of this manual, and do you even know anything about it? And did you respond to this? If it is true what appeared in our various discussions earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Ombudsman to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u289	I don't recall taking action, reacting to this kind of document. But what I would like to draw attention to is the reaction of disciplinary officials to judges who have decided to, you can say, implement, such individual implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November. Because let us not forget that in the case of Judge Yuszczyszyn, who decided to send this famous letter to the Sejm Chancellery and check these letters of support... The question is whether, after yesterday's words to the Minister of Justice, it is so necessary to check these letters of support... But he was faced with disciplinary action, disciplinary action, appeal from the delegation and suspension on the basis of the law of the general court as a judge. And now I would like to point out two issues that have been particularly of interest to me in this context, institutional issues. In the event of an appeal from a delegation, there is no right to appeal to another judicial authority, i.e. a discretionary decision by the Minister of Justice. What's more, here's a bow to the current Minister. The Ministry of Justice declared in 2016 an appeal procedure against an appeal from a delegation, in response to one of my letters, said that it would be part of subsequent judicial laws. But then, unfortunately, it didn't become a part of them, and the ministry focused on other issues than the granting of additional powers to judges who are dismissed from the delegation. In my opinion, these were really very serious things, and we shouldn't underestimate that. The question of suspending a judge as a judge on the basis of the law on the system of common courts... I specifically examined the situations in which this institution was used earlier. How do we look at the comment? It's a matter of art. 134, if memory doesn't confuse me The law on the system of common courts, we will note that it is about situations such as when a judge. He was caught out there under the influence... Yes? Well, we all know that there's something wrong with health, that addiction... And we need to make a quick decision. And it was suspended for a month and then followed by proper conduct. So this legal institution, this power of the President of the Court, very special, has actually been applied to completely different purposes in my opinion. I would also like to point out that there was a case concerning 3 judges from Cracow who undertook to verify whether the court's experts were appointed by an authority which fulfils the criteria of independence, i.e. by the National Council of the Court in its new composition, referring to the judgment of 19 November 2019. Disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against them. So those were the things I focused on. I try to respond to every such story as a spokesman by sending appropriate letters to the competent authorities, but also by simply documenting these individual stories. And as for this instructions to the prosecutors, at this point, I don't recall...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u290	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. Another senator who will be asking the question is Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u291	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Ombudsperson, you used a very dangerous concept, increasingly pronounced in the Republic of Poland... you did it nicely because you said legal Polexit. Given that there are less and less authorities who could lead the union in order to normalize the law in our Republic of Poland... Today, the situation is that the president drives around the world and spits on judges. The Prime Minister does it, the Minister of Justice does it, everyone sent by me. Don't you think, Mr. Ombudsman, that as an independent person... So far, there have been various attempts to build a round table so that we can get along in fundamentals. My life experience and professional experience tells me that there are no unsolvable things. Your apoliticality could be in this dramatic situation to exploit. Haven't you thought about using your authority to try and organize this round table? So far, all the rehearsals, I see, are burning on the pan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u292	Thank you very much, senator. Thank you very much. I remind everyone it's time to ask questions. The political discussion will take place later. I ask the Ombudsman to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I was at a conference yesterday called "Form and politics," which was organized in Gdansk in connection with certain circumstances, and I would have a great appeal to all the participants in public life: if we judge and disagree with politicians, even deeply, let us try to say some things differently. I, too, do not agree with some of the President's words at, for example, the first President of the Supreme Court, but we can put everything differently, which I think will serve to build such a good climate for discussion and a good exchange of views. As far as the merger is concerned, I would like to say that this is my earlier speech. That's how I wanted to build it. It was filled with my concern for the future. Every time I came here, I tried to say that this was about more than just one law or another, that it really is about the future that has been written down for many years, that it is about generations and that we really need to think about how to fix our country, because we may be in such a place that it is extremely difficult. My office has always served to connect. If there is a need for me to connect anyone or create a space for discussion, then I am absolutely at my disposal. Only with such initiatives is such a problem that they really need to want 2 pages, they really need to want to discuss 2 pages, 3 pages, 5 pages. And as an observer, I also feel that we are not yet at this stage, that there is a real will to solve this problem. I think that careful, careful reading of the opinion of the Venice Commission and not ignoring this opinion, as you can hear... Here I also appeal for the right language and respect for those who came to Poland, as well as for those who did not come, but participated in the preparation of this opinion. A careful reading of the opinion will indicate that it is full of concern, not just unreasonable criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u294	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u295	Mr. Ombudsperson, we are looking for a model of the functioning of the courts in recent days. I have a question because in public space there are many allegations that it is a post-communist model, PRL-owski. Was the creation of the KRS in 1989 the implementation of the demands of.Solidarity? Because yesterday we listened to Minister Ziobra's speech, who drew such a picture, insulting the judge's environment, of course, that the subsequent governments of the SLD, AWS... PO. ...and another one of the governments, I think P.O.'s, too. It's like they're strengthening this caste system. Therefore, I ask: who created a very good law, a law on the system of common courts in the years 2000 to 2001 in the government of AWS, a good law that introduces the judiciary as a concept? Second thing. Did the institution check whether the judges were active in any associations in the 1980s? Did the judges then have to report their membership of social and political organizations in forms? And one last question, Minister. Because we are asking ourselves today how this bill will affect those who listen to us, the ordinary Poles, will it speed up the proceedings that unfortunately have extended? Will it reduce the costs that have recently also increased, the court proceedings? Does the Minister see any solution that either shortens the procedure or leads to an improvement for an ordinary citizen who is looking for help in court, e.g. By restricting cognition, supporting mediation, or eliminating any bureaucracy? Do you see such solutions in these laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u296	Thank you so much for these questions. As far as the question is concerned about what was going on in the 1980s, Mr Stanisław Zabłocki, President of the Criminal Chamber, could explain it better. I'd like to focus on the National Judicial Council itself. Its model was created in 1989, during the Round Table meeting, in the work of the podtable, which was chaired or attended by Prof. Adam Strzembosz, but in which he also participated. It is worth remembering this, and I have already said this in this House, recently I quoted the appropriate passage from Jarosław Kaczyński. This was a solution aimed at balancing the authorities. Because remember, that's what didn't happen yesterday in the Minister's statement. After all, the National Judicial Council is a mix of people who represent different types of authorities: the judiciary, the parliament of 4 Members and 2 Senators. The President of the Supreme Courts and the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, as well as the President's representative are also members of the Supreme Courts. So this is a special Polish construction. What's more, in time... Of course, this advice was criticized. Minister Kaleta quoted here the words of Professor Rzepliński. But just because she was criticized doesn't mean that she hasn't changed, doesn't mean she hasn't fixed her procedures or that they haven't been fixed by law. For example, I remember one change, which I myself, when I was still working at the Helsinki Foundation, was trying hard and I was asking for it, and which change was supposed to do a certain ventilation of the council, namely to introduce representatives of attorneys and legal advisers to the competition procedures for new judges. Because it actually happened that for many years there was a specific, you can say, reproduction of judges. You could call it different, but I think he was there, so to speak, a limited supply of fresh air from other legal professions. However, since that time, when this solution was introduced, the National Judicial Council had begun to change the representatives of the barrister and the council may have participated as observers in its procedures. Moreover, the National Judicial Council has also gained greater vigor and recognition I think it was a time of sleep. Stanisław Dąbrowski, who, I think, gave her special authority. I remember the big conferences, the meetings that he organized. So I think it's worth remembering that you can't have a one-sided picture here. What struck me yesterday in the Minister's speech was a matter of, I would say, saying that the judges did not answer in any way that disciplinary proceedings did not work the way they should. Of course, I'm sure you can... Each of us... also President Zabłocki pointed out here that in some cases he disagreed. However, it is worth remembering here that one of the tasks of the National Council of the Court of Justice was to appeal against the judgments of the disciplinary courts of first instance, which were then brought to the Supreme Court. And when we look at these appeals, it turns out that it was not so that in every case the National Judicial Council agreed with these courts. Part of her decision was to the blamed, part to the detriment, depending on the case. In my opinion, neglect, and a great deal of it, was that the National Judicial Council As with many other bodies, so is the Constitutional Tribunal and the courts She didn't care about communication about her actions, she didn't care if society knew well, she had a comprehensive knowledge of what was going on there. I think that's why these organs didn't build their kind of social facilities. It could also affect their general perception. However, for many years this KRS model has not been subject to any controversy and basically successive laws that were adopted... I understand that... if memory serves me right, then, at the time when the next law on the National Judicial Council was adopted, I think the Minister of Justice was Lech Kaczyński. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. I think so. So it was... It is a certain tradition of the body that occurs in Poland. It seems to me that the 1989 tradition must be referred to and remembered. However, if, in the future, a decision to correct, one could say, the condition and legal status of the Republic of Poland, it would probably be necessary to consider more transparency of the activities and procedures of recruitment for judicial positions within the National Council of Courts. Of course, if such decisions were to be taken The point is that judges elect judges to the National Judicial Council, as was designed in 1989. It should be better to ensure that recruitment procedures are clear and transparent to the general public. High Izbo, I would also take care of one thing. If parliamentarians were elected to the council, they would actually work very hard at the National Courts Council because, depending on the periods, it was different. Here the assumption was a little bit like that, so I understand that it is they who are to provide, you can say, a greater democratic insight into what is happening in the National Judicial Council. And the question is, maybe the politicians will think about it someday. To what extent these six members of the National Judicial Council, who are on behalf of Parliament, participated in the work of the National Courts. As far as the extension of the procedure is concerned, it seems to me that due to issues of doubt related to... I think that this law does not correspond, maybe so. I will say this, to the challenges ahead, i.e. increasing the availability of alternative means of identifying cases and reducing cognition. These are the elements of justice reform that we are discussing in Poland. It is still unsolved in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u297	Thank you very much to the Ombudsman. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski. I'd like to ask you a question. He resigned. No, no. Oh, I'm sorry. I'd really like to ask you to... My friends would want me to quit. Mr. Senators and Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you to remain serious, especially not to serve the marshal and other senators in the area of whether they want to speak or not. I have two questions for you... That's the time. It's true, and I understand fatigue. I ask Senator Komorowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u298	I have a question. Did you recommend the Venice Commission's negative opinion on the so-called. Laws of the court? Did you make such an opinion of the Venice Commission? Second question. Do you even see any positive solutions in these judicial laws? If so, can you say something about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Ombudsman to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u300	Dear Senator, Yes, at a meeting with the Venice Commission I presented my opinion on the bill, the opinion is the same as what I said earlier in the Parliament. I previously took part in the Sejm on 20 December 2019. The Venice Commission was in Poland... I saw them on January 10th. Friday last week was January 10th, right? And this January 10th was after both the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union held by Senator Klich and the meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which was on January 8. In the so-called. Meanwhile, we sent as an office to the Senate, to the hands of the Senate Marshal, my in-depth opinion on the bill. In short, we have also presented what is in this opinion - a critical assessment of the law. As for the second question, about the positives, I think so. If we were to look in this detail at the reform which concerned the law on the system of common courts and which was the subject of parliamentary work in 2017, there were, of course, provisions which were controversial, for example. such a period, six months, when the Minister of Justice could in principle appoint and appeal the Presidents of the courts, and this is the subject of the proceedings, this subject is dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights, but there was also a whole range of different solutions which did not relate, one might say, to the current... which referred to the need to improve the functioning of the courts and which did not raise any major controversy. That's one thing. Secondly, as I said earlier, some changes in procedures introduced and proposed by the Ministry or in material files also improved the situation. I mentioned earlier, for example, what was very important to me, namely the crime of non-alimentation and the problems involved. If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u301	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. Please take the floor... Please, Senator, ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u302	Excuse me, an additional question, because I meant that bill we're investigating. Does the Ombudsman see any positive solutions in this bill, and can he say anything about them, or is it negative?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u303	I believe that this law is primarily aimed at calling into question the judgment and preventing the execution of the judgment of 19 November 2019 and, in principle, most of the provisions of that law are concentrated. Since I believe that after 19 November 2019 there should be a completely different matter from the authorities, i.e. a reflection on how to fix in the spirit of the rule of law and respect for EU law the legal system, it is difficult for me to see the positive in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u304	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. And I'm asking the senator for a third question. Go to sleep... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, please don't do this kind of comment, that's unacceptable. Horrible, horrible. Each senator has the right to ask as many questions as he wants. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u305	Some of my friends kicked me out of asking questions here. I have a question for you directly arising from the bill we discussed here. Do you, as ombudsman, believe that judges in a court may question the correctness of the choice, the appointment of a judge in another composition, of a judge appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland? What is your position on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u306	As I have put it in my opinion, judges have the right to examine whether they are dealing with a judge who is independent in the light of Union law, moreover, judges can carry out this kind of verification on their own. Yes, the principle of EU law allows them to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u307	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. The next question is... I have a question for you. ...in accordance with the regulations, which I stress, Senator Marek Komorowski. It's a verse, Mr. Marshal, a verse. I have a question... Not Versailles, but the Senate of the Republic, Senator... Get to the point... ...who has a tradition longer than the palace in Versailles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u308	I have a question in a slightly different matter, maybe a little out of the loop. Would you, as an ombudsman, also question the possibility of other state bodies, e.g. the ability of the Supreme Chamber to control the Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u309	I thank the senator very much for asking this question, and I ask the Ombudsman for an answer. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u310	The Supreme Audit Chamber has the right to control the Ombudsman. This is due to the Constitution and the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control. And here I don't see any grounds for questioning. However, I would like to point out Because I understand that this is what the senator refers to. This review by judges is due to the need to ensure compliance with Union law and to ensure effective legal protection under Article. 19 of the EU Treaty, as well as of Article. 6 The European Convention on Human Rights, because the court must make sure that it is dealing with an entity which has jurisdiction and which has jurisdiction, i.e. is independent of other types of authority, is an autonomous jurisdiction. I used to give an example of court assessors for a reason, because we had a problem with it, but there were some serious cases that, for example, had to do with it. Judges appointed to judge in a particular court on the basis of a delegation issued by the Deputy Minister of Justice. The question was whether the right person signed the delegation. Many courts dealt with it and had trouble with it until, as far as I can remember The resolution of the 7 Supreme Court judges settled these doubts and, you might say, cut through this Gordian node that arose. And I think that's how I understand the dynamics of events. The Supreme Court is going to cut this and decide by resolution of the 3 Joint Chambers of the Supreme Court, a resolution to be adopted, as announced by the first President, on 23 January, which is next week.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u311	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. Has Senator Marek Komorowski asked all the questions he wanted to ask? Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. He's happy. Senator Rafał Ambrozik will be the last to ask a question. I would like to assure you that my comment on the history of Versailles and the Senate has been confirmed by a prominent historian sitting in our House, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, who confirmed that the Polish Senate is older and has a longer tradition than the palace in Versailles, of which we can all be proud. I ask Senator Ambrozik to ask the Ombudsman a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u312	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Ombudsman, we have been discussing many hours of threats to the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. Tell me if you see any other threats besides the threats from the executive or the legislative authorities. I mean... I don't know. For example, threats from inside the judicial environment or maybe even from outside Poland. My point here is that you, Mr Ombudsperson, should remind us how the TSUE is called or how the judges are elected to the TSUE or to the ECHR. Can you describe them as independent in the context of elections?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u313	Thank you very much, senator. I ask the Ombudsman to answer Senator Ambrozik's question. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u314	I am specialising in the enforcement of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. I wrote a habilitation on this subject. And I would like to refer to that. The judges of the European Court of Human Rights shall be chosen in such a way that, first, in each Member State, the State party to the European Convention or the Member State of the Council of Europe, a competition committee is set up to carry out an open selection of candidates for a judge of the European Court of Human Rights. The course of work of this committee is open and there are also representatives of the executive authority, which is mainly up to me, as far as I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Justice, but representatives of the Ministry of Justice also participate in this. After the whole procedure is carried out the selection of 3 candidates is made, the so-called. It's a short list. The list of 3 candidates is then presented to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is composed of representatives of all Parliaments of the Council of Europe. The Committee on Legal Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shall then evaluate these candidates. What the Council of Europe has been up against for some time is, so to speak, the quality of the candidates, because not always those candidates who are presented are the best. Recently, a similar procedure has been carried out with regard to members of the Council of Europe's Committee on Torture, and it has just happened that the last time the candidates presented by Poland were, so to speak, turned around to re-enter the selection procedure because their insufficient competences were assessed. It follows a vote in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the election of a judge. The judge is appointed for a nine-year term which is one and cannot be shortened later. One can say that the guarantee of the independence of the judge is that it is 1 term. It can be said that this independence of the judge is achieved through the verification of qualifications, through the procedure, through the openness of this procedure, through the involvement of both the national institutions and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and the cadence. I would add that, in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, there is an additional very interesting element, namely that there is such a committee... The procedure is quite similar, but there is still a committee called the Committee 255, and it can also be said to verify competence. Our judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union is the judge who was previously the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, it's hard to imagine a person with a higher qualification.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u315	Thank you very much, senator. I ask Senator Ambrozik to ask an additional question, and then the invaluable Senator Marek Komorowski will be able to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u316	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, the conclusion of this discussion in general is this: the importance of the ECHR judgments is increasing, the importance of the judgments of the EUSF is increasing. There's a hierarchy. The sources of law, we all know that the judgments of the TSUE or the ECHR are not the sources of law, but, as the judges have said here, we must respect European law, it is functioning on the sidelines, but it has an impact on what is happening in Poland. So... It's like every country. Well, like in every country, it's true. From what you have said, Mr Ombudsperson, it appears that judges to the ECHR and to the TSUE nevertheless point to the government, i.e. the executive authority. That's right, they're sure, I'd say, security barriers Maybe it's too wide-ranging. 'Cause you're talking about this Committee 255. And please tell me whether the Committee's opinions are binding, whether the work of this committee is transparent, whether it is public or public. The transcripts of this committee's work? That's one thing. The second point is the question of the ECHR. Is the procedure open? Are the standards required by national judges, and they are actually much higher than those required for ECHR judges... Is the procedure for the selection of judges to the ECHR public, or is it possible to read or read the transcripts of the interviews with those judges? There's still... In 2010, such a Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe was set up... I mean, it was not set up, it was this committee that set up a panel of experts, which was supposed to help select these candidates. Unfortunately, as far as this panel is concerned, the questioning of the candidate concerned actually depends solely on the will of the Member State. Another thing is, I don't think he's even there, Mr. Ombudsman... Maybe you can get me out of a mistake. In fact, this expert panel cannot listen to the candidate, it can only ask questions to the Member States, namely the governments. This is the real, or actually the only, influence that a Member State has on the choice of these judges. And those judges, who are hard to attribute this independence, shape the law in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u317	I understand that was a question, Senator. Yeah, yeah. I would very much like to ask you to answer that question from your ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u318	Good. I wouldn't want our discussion of a very specific law to turn into a scientific seminar. I'd love to have coffee. In fact, we sometimes have such relations with the senator in the context of some individual interventions, and we can talk about it on this occasion. For this intervention, Mr. Ombudsman, I would like to thank you. Okay, okay. I ask you not to interrupt your spokesperson. I'm moving on. I am not saying that everything that is in the Council of Europe, including the whole construction of the Council of Europe, is perfect. I have a great deal of trouble, for example, in refusing to execute certain judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, because that is what I did. As far as my memory is correct, all applications submitted by States Parties to the European Convention shall be made public. The lives of these people are public, accessible and accessible. As far as my memory is concerned, the actions of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are also public. Moreover, in 2 weeks there will be a debate about the last report of the committee on Poland. This Pieter Omzigt report is now open, available, and I think there's no problem here. I would like to point out that, once this judge goes to the European Court of Human Rights, he is primarily the judge of multi-member assemblies, which in itself influences the quality of case law. Moreover, when we are dealing with those judgments that shape legal principles, these compositions are created, or the case goes to the Grand Chamber of the Tribunal. If we're talking about an important case we're waiting for, for example. The hearing on Ástráðsson will be held on 5 February 2020 and will be held by the Grand Chamber. That's the same thing about Bak I was talking about. I was just referring to Bak's case, Mr. Senator, and that was the Grand Chamber's verdict. The Grand Chamber's judgments shape, you might say, such an official interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights. And as for the sources of the law, we are dealing with... The European Convention on Human Rights is an international agreement ratified by Poland and therefore in the hierarchy of the sources of law is higher than the laws. Relevant provision concerning Article. 6 talking about the right to a court or an article. The 10 talking about freedom of speech, you can say, stands higher than the statutory standard. However, we must also bear in mind that it is generally accepted that these provisions of the Constitution, our Constitution, which, in substance and in scope, correspond to the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, are in principle interpreted in a similar way. If we go to court with a case relating to the protection of personal property or a case relating to a breach of the right to privacy, then, in principle, the ECHR ruling, the Strasbourg tribunal is being used on an ongoing basis. In the same way, the Supreme Court's Penal Court uses on an ongoing basis judicial standards concerning the right of defence or personal liberty. I am also directly referring to the Convention in my cassations to the Supreme Court. And, moreover, I would like to stress that this is the work of many generations of lawyers, that this is what happens, that the convention has such deep roots in our legal system. I'm going to say three names, I'm going to say Peter Hofmanski, who is now a judge of the International Criminal Court, and probably in 1991 he published his first book. I remember, I was still a high school student and this is the book I got, Poland hasn't ratified the convention yet, and he's already written about it. I will tell you about Mark Antoni Nowicki, an outstanding lawyer who has already written so many comments on this subject, and I will tell you about Lech Garlick, who for many years has been a very well deserved judge of the European Court of Human Rights. And since I am in this House, I will also talk about the patron of Silence, who was a lawyer who presented many important issues to the European Court of Human Rights and thus set the standard. And now as we take every word on the basis of the convention: the very concept of court, independence, impartiality, chronicity... As we take such a word, we see that it has tens, hundreds of comments that were made in the course of the caselaw. In particular, those concerning the independence of the judiciary and relations between executives and judges are primarily Ukrainian cases, such as: Volkov v Ukraine, Russian affairs, e.g. Kudeshkin v. Russia, a whole set of Macedonian cases, and recently Hungarian cases. Now there are cases from Poland, i.e. Grząt v Poland, which concerns the nomination procedure carried out by the National Judicial Council, and Bojar's case against Poland, which concerns the dismissal of the Vice-Presidents of the courts during this time window, which was available to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u319	Thank you very much, Mr Ombudsperson. Mr. Marshal... You're welcome, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u320	The motion, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal request for an adjournment, because we have a club meeting at 9:00 p.m. And it's a good tradition to have a club meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-16-senat-03-2.u321	Mr Senator, it is a good parliamentary custom for club applications to be taken into account. As a result, I'm announcing a recess by 9:30 tomorrow. Thank you very much... I have a question for the spokesperson... Mr. Senator, tomorrow we will resume our deliberations and it will certainly be possible to ask this question. I've announced a recess. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 03]]
