ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to take the designated seats. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Senators gathered in the sitting room and in Room 182 and in Room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in the discussion with the Senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Ryszard Śvilski, in room 217, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, in room 182, Senator Victor Durlak. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please check that all States in the sitting room and in rooms 182 and 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Dear Senators, taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are included. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. I would also like to point out that there is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal in charge of the session and after the microphone has been launched by a computer scientist from the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote, which aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind you of the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting, that the opening of the vote, so-called. polling in the Webex system causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Sometimes it's the word "Submit" instead of the word "Transmit." I therefore ask for a vote. No, no, but it has to be... Oh, the apparatus isn't on. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's already on. This is, I remind you, a test vote. Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted. The other results, as you know, are irrelevant. All the buttons are working. 88 senators took part in the vote. [[Voting No 11]] Dear Senators! I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws and consider it as item five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I'm getting a signal from room 217 that Senator Swed has a formal motion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, this formal motion depends on the information I get from your Marshal. I'd like to ask... I have information from an hour ago that the bill we voted on yesterday, the bill on correspondence elections, has not yet been delivered to the Sejm, and today is the end of the deadline. This is the last day the Senate should take a stand. I would therefore like to ask whether and when it will be delivered. Will it be today at 11:00 or early? Any formal application is subject to information from the marshal. What's the procedure for these questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u3	Mr. Senator... What's the procedure for these questions? ...now you're asking the question, and you haven't filed a formal motion... Exactly. ...but as a man, by nature, I will answer you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It will be delivered today along with the documents from today's session, and if we do not finish this session, it will be delivered in due course. Today. I can assure you of that. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Only with formal proposals at the moment, because we have already adopted the agenda and we need to get to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u4	Good. Thank you. Mr. Marshal, if you've allowed one question, you can let the other question, short. When can there be a vote? Yesterday at the Senior Convention meeting, you said that the vote would be this afternoon. I feel cheated because the vote was yesterday, unannounced... We got texts eight minutes before the votes. Therefore, on behalf of the Senators of Law and Justice, I ask when there will be a vote, whether this afternoon, evening or tomorrow. Please answer me. At the right time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u5	They'll be in session. Let me remind you that it is the duty of the senator to attend. And I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. We can quote the relevant articles of the Rules of Procedure. And it is the duty of the marshal to keep his word at the beginning. But, please... Well, let's not require... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with point two... Mr. Marshal, I'd like to file a motion. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to file a motion. And if it's a motion, then... Yes. Because before that, you asked...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u6	Yeah, first there was a question, and now there's a conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Section 2 of the Senate Rules of Procedure I submit the application 22 senators signed the application For a roll call vote. The rules weren't changed yesterday. I don't think we should vote remotely without changing the rules. That's why I'm making such a request. For a roll call vote. I'm handing him over to you right now. But about what? This applies to all points. All votes during the sitting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u7	Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u8	I have an urgent request for the Senators of the PiS. We've just completed our work on changing the code of conduct... And the ladies aren't? Please don't disturb me. To the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS senators. We have just finished work on amending the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. We accepted it absolutely all, in common accord. Besides, this legislative initiative is... Government. ...the Ministry of Justice initiative. I would say that from all sides there was an expectation in this regard. Name voting for natural reasons extends certain procedures. With regard to this proposal, would you not consider that this vote should not be included in the roll-call vote? I would ask very much and recommend it. We don't agree to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u9	I'm asking you to be serious. This proposal must not be extended to all votes for each vote on a case-by-case basis. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 of this article says this: after the debate or the speech of the rapporteur to the Senate, the Senate announces that the Senate is voting. So that the proposal cannot be made so generally, only it must be, if it is the will of the senators, repeated in relation to each point. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u10	Mr. Marshal, that's exactly what I'd like to say. It is not possible to submit a proposal for all roll-call votes, there must be a proposal for a specific point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u11	Mr. Marshal, there's a formal conclusion. Of course, the marshal will interpret it as he wishes. Yesterday we saw how we could break the Senate rules. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] If you want it, you'll break it and you'll break it. How was the rules broken? What point was broken?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u12	I'm asking you to be serious. I categorically deny it as if we've broken any point. I would like to remind you, Mr Martynowski, that this article is clear: once you have closed the discussion on a given item, you can, at the request of the Senate Marshal or at least 20 senators, apply for a roll-call vote, but with regard to specific points. At the moment, I have received confirmation from the Legislative Bureau that my interpretation in this matter is correct. So if we finish some point, after the discussion is closed, you will be able to make such a request. And it is at this stage that this discussion is closed. I'm calling a 45-minute recess until 11:30. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 41 to 13 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to say that during the break there were meetings of the Senate Bureau and of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, with the active participation of the Senate Legislative Office, of course, because we asked the Rules of Procedure Committee for an opinion on the roll-call voting procedure. After the meeting of the committee, the Senate Bureau re-convened and adopted the following resolution, which I will allow you to read. On the basis of the article. The following shall be adopted in paragraph 9 (1) of the Senate Rules of Procedure. §1. Senators participating in the Senate meeting using electronic means of communication enabling them to communicate at a distance in the event of a roll-call vote receive a ballot card by e-mail, fill in, scan and send a scan of the card by e-mail to a dedicated address. The Senate Marshal-designated Senate secretaries shall print the sent scans and insert the cards into the urn, in which case the alphabetical order referred to in Article may be waived. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Five Senate Rules of Procedure. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. I would add from myself that in the same way the Senators participating in the meeting send their amendments. And that's the decision. To conclude it: if, after the discussion on each item is completed, a motion for a roll-call vote is submitted, such a vote shall be held in accordance with the resolution of the Senate Bureau, in connection with the interpretation carried out in the Rules of Procedure Committee and prepared by the Legislative Office of the Senate. The second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce the state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. Print No 109 and the report in print No 109 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 4 May the Legislative Commission dealt with a draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce a state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State. The project is processed in so-called mode. a rapid legislative path. The Senators of Law and Justice, who were members of the committee, requested that the date of the meeting be changed so that they could attend the meeting by a representative of the Council of Ministers. He did not appear at this meeting, and after explaining to the committee president that the Council of Ministers was informed and invited to attend the committee meeting, we voted on this proposal. The motion fell in the vote. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, I presented a draft resolution focusing on 6 arguments which support the introduction of a natural disaster and show that the introduction of a natural disaster in the current situation would be beneficial for Poland. I'm going to make these six points in a nutshell right now. The first argument is that we are in a state of growing epidemic, which has already consumed more than 700 victims. There's over 14,000 infections, and What the Minister of Health was talking about yesterday There could be twice as many of them. Over 100,000 people are in quarantine. We are unable to predict the further development of this epidemic, and this is definitely an emergency state in Poland. In contemporary history of Poland there was no such epidemic threat. It was for such situations that the Constitution introduced a provision on the state of the natural disaster and prepared an appropriate law. The second argument stems from the fact that many emergency measures have already been introduced in Poland in the fight against the epidemic, so it was considered that without emergency measures, this epidemic cannot be dealt with. So it was considered that this state of emergency in Poland actually functions. The Constitution provides for such emergencies, including natural disasters. The third argument is based on the definition of the state of the natural disaster, the legal definition. If we read it and presented it at the committee's meeting, we will conclude that it accurately describes the state of reality in Poland. In other words, we are in a state of natural disaster, but we have not formally introduced it. Fourth argument. The Act on the State of Natural Disaster, which comes directly from the Constitution, gives the right to restrict certain civil rights and freedoms in a way consistent with the Constitution. These rights are already limited or suspended, but without this law being taken into account, the application of these restrictions raises considerable legal doubts. The fifth argument is that the introduction of the Act on the state of the natural disaster will allow for taking into account the limitations resulting from the emergency situation in the case of damages claims and allow them to be rationalised. Without the introduction of an emergency, all these claims will be treated as a normal situation in which the State bears full responsibility, also for the fact that there is a state of epidemic in Poland. The sixth argument is that the Act on the State of the Natural Disaster allows the Presidential elections to be postponed and conducted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Today we see that the ruling formation is getting into more and more trouble when it comes to elections. More and more politicians, leaders of this formation, claim that on 10 May these elections cannot be held. The adoption of the Act on the State of Natural Disaster automatically shifts these elections by 4 months. It can be said that the project comes from this formation, which is not responsible for holding the presidential election, but, in principle, the party which is preparing the elections should treat it as a rescue plank. This last argument I made as the sixth, but the Senators of Law and Justice said that he was the most important, that is why we are presenting this draft resolution. In order to move the presidential elections. The discussion that took place at the committee's meeting on the topics I presented, I will begin with the electoral issue. Indeed, the introduction of the state of the natural disaster automatically postpones the election deadline by at least 4 months and gives the Sejm the right to move it to a further date if there are no epidemic conditions in Poland that will allow for safe elections. Thus, today's chaos can be put aside for a few months and all attention can be focused on another problem which Poland has, i.e. the problem of how to fight the epidemic, how to fight for the fate of Poles who are struggling with the epidemic, as well as the consequences of this epidemic, lose their jobs. Workstations have problems, too. The point is not to mix these two issues that are not mixed together are completely different realities, i.e. the electoral campaign and the joint action to combat the epidemic. Unfortunately, the Senators of the PiS did not accept this argument. They treated this not as an asset of this law, but as the most serious defect of this solution. Maybe they'll take it now. We've got two days since the committee meeting. The situation has generally changed very much for the idea of organising elections, so maybe today these views will be different. The senators also asked us, the address of the applicants, how we imagined organising elections after the introduction of the natural disaster. Well, High Senate. And we also presented this at the committee's meeting. It was not our role to introduce the state of the natural disaster in order to take responsibility for the organisation of elections. And to tell you the truth, it's a natural disaster bill that describes it quite precisely. Because it gives the opportunity to take care of what is most important in Poland, i.e. the state of the epidemic, and then it gives 90 days to prepare elections. So... and the decision about when we solve the epidemic problem, and we deal with the elections, will be made by parliament. Because the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, only decides the first 30 days. Later, a possible extension of the natural disaster is decided by Parliament. And thanks to this value of this solution finally in Poland things would return to their place: first we are dealing with what Poles are most concerned about and then we are dealing with politics. Another package of topics discussed at the meeting concerned arguments on the restoration of legal order in Poland. In our view, this order can be restored through the adoption of the Act on the State of Natural Disaster. Because in fact, so few people today disagree with the fact that we are dealing with a natural disaster. The rights guaranteed by the Constitution as citizens' rights and civil liberties are limited. And introducing these restrictions by various laws, and often by regulations, and not even by regulations of the Council of Ministers, but by regulations of the Minister of Health... Legal correctness is often questioned. In the event of a natural disaster, it is simple to link civil rights and freedoms to the emergency situation. It simply follows from the Constitution, from the article. 228. There is talk of the introduction of a natural disaster and, at the same time, it is said that the rights and freedoms of citizens can be reduced in an exceptional way. There was a big discussion about whether a natural disaster had to be put in place so that these civil rights could be reduced. And I will admit that the PiS senators were very right to say that these civil rights and freedoms can be limited by other laws, including the law on prevention and the fight against infectious infections and diseases in humans. However, there is a difference between these two solutions, also in certain wordings, e.g. The law on the fight against infections and infectious diseases refers to the reduction of production, the mode of movement, not the restriction of the right to move, and these differences also speak for the adoption of the Act on the state of the natural disaster. We argued. that too, I have already said this, that the state of the natural disaster states the existence of an emergency state. And if we are talking about restricting civil liberties, which we in Poland are extremely allergic to, then we should only allow for the limitation of these rights if we find that such an emergency situation exists in Poland, otherwise we should say it is not possible than to introduce such a law as to confirm this emergency condition. And the last thread I would like to mention, which was discussed at the Legislative Commission, is the differences in the liability of the State Treasury in the case of damages claims. It is quite different to process claims when the state of natural disaster is declared, and otherwise, when it is as it is now, i.e. when there is no extraordinary state, so it is normal and everyone can make a claim against our country, using various arguments, and the Polish State will not be able to appeal to any law or constitutional law saying that in an exceptional state of loss all the restrictions that introduce the emergency state must be taken into account and compensation is limited to compensation for property losses, so in such a situation it is not possible to proceed with losses resulting from the loss of contracts and various other contracts. Unfortunately, there is no state of emergency, so after a certain period in Polish courts the so-called. Free-American girl. This constitutional record is very important, it can have very serious consequences for the Polish state. It seems to me that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, after a previous discussion, it was approved by the majority. Finally, Mr Marshal, High Senate, the Legislative Commission has adopted the draft resolution by majority, so I can recommend it to the Senate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u14	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jerzy Wcisla to represent them. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, who are in room 182, to Senator Victor Durlak. Senators in the sitting room, please send a letter to Senator Richard Śvilski. Your Senators who are participating in the meeting remotely, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. He was the first Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. In your discussion of the report, you have given quite a lot of space to the issue of the presidential elections. I have a question for you. Did the applicants consider suggesting any other emergency conditions? I'll remind you that in total it's... Out of martial law, of course, because this one's out of the question for formal reasons. And the second question is, what would happen to those candidates running for election... Now that you're talking about the presidential election, I'm gonna ask you this: what would happen to the presidential candidates if they were I emphasize the word "if," I say in conditional mode, was the state of the natural disaster introduced? After the withdrawal of this state, as Prof. Łętowska claims, would it be necessary to apply once again, so that there could be completely different candidates than those present, or would there be a freezing of the procedure for these 90 days and we would continue to talk about the same rate of candidates who were registered in these elections? Would you like to settle this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u17	Mr. Senator, as far as this first question is concerned, we have not considered a different state. The state of the natural disaster corresponds exactly to the real situation in Poland and in this situation we considered that there is no reason to look for another solution. I will remind you of what the Act on the State of the Natural Disaster says about the concept of a natural disaster. This is a natural disaster, the consequences of which threaten a large number of people's lives or health, large-scale property or environments in significant areas, and aid and protection can only be effectively taken with extraordinary measures, in collaboration with different bodies and institutions, and with specialised services and formations operating under uniform direction. And by natural disaster, the law means an event related to the action of forces of nature, the mass occurrence of infectious diseases of people, or the action of another element. This is exactly the situation we are dealing with in Poland at the moment. I have already answered you, Senator, in a way, when I said in the report from the committee's meeting that when it comes to questions about the continuation of the election campaign, about how it would be going after the application of the Act on the State of the Natural Disaster, we, as applicants, did not think about it. In our opinion today, right now, here and now, the most important task is to deal with the epidemic state, the state of the Polish economy. Politics and the economy do not go hand in hand. Politics, especially when it comes to elections, is by its very nature acting in such a way that it sharpens the differences between different parties and options. In such an extraordinary situation as it is in Poland, in a situation of fighting the epidemic, unity is needed. And look what it looks like. Actually, we're all saying the same thing. Law and Justice say, let's not get into politics, let's not get into election law, let's not talk about elections, let's make these choices. Our coalition says let's move the elections and talk about the epidemic. Everyone says not to talk about politics, but we really talk about elections all the time. So in our opinion, in the opinion of the applicants, we should remove the subject of the elections by at least four months so that politicians do not have an excuse to deal with the elections and finally deal with the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u18	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have three questions. Well, for starters, it's a case. You said the Prime Minister was invited to the committee meeting. I, too, am a member of the Senate Legislative Commission and I remember that your project was handled on Monday around 5:00 p.m. How long before the committee meeting was invited by the Prime Minister? That's the first question. You were talking about a natural disaster. Well, now is a special time, a time when we freeze the economy slowly, of course, while maintaining all safety standards. Recently we have been dealing with protests from cross-border workers who have already wanted to return to work, and now we have, from Monday, a decision on the second stage of freezing the economy, and the state at that time is calling for the introduction of a natural disaster, which is linked to the limitation of civil rights and freedoms. Why aren't you following what's going on in the country, just now, at this particular time, proposing the introduction of a natural disaster? You also mentioned a violation of the rule of law. So far, the government has introduced two states: first an epidemic and then an epidemic. This was the result of the Act of 2008, which was introduced by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL at that time. So how much of this bill violates the rule of law today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u21	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'm not the chairman of the committee, and I don't know what time the invitation was sent to the President of the Council of Ministers. But, as the president said at the meeting, the invitation was sent around noon hours. There's so much I can say about this. As for the current epidemic and what you say, today we are dealing with the freezing of the economy and the loosening of rigors, it is not only the Polish Minister of Health... Well, there is a similar position in almost all European countries and there are similar reservations: we freeze gradually, in stages, we will look at what the effect of these frostbite will be, and what the situation will be, but we do not rule out the possibility of a return to a tightened form. So that because something was unfrozen today, it does not appear that the epidemic situation in Poland is more contained. Anyway, the results show a little bit of that. The number of infections in Poland yesterday or the day before yesterday was the highest... 400... ...from April 20th or 23rd, which is two weeks. Six days. There was a drop, now there's an increase. And we can expect a lot of such scenarios. And there's another very important thing. In Poland, the epidemic does not have a downward trend. This infectivity factor is still at 1.2. Where the elections were held, he was under 1. So we've got one infected person who's infected with another 1.2 people. That's how it is in Poland. If the Minister of Health says that there may be two times more infected in Poland than those detected, that is, there may not be 14,000 of them and 30,000 of them, that means that we do not know about 15,000 infected. Of those 15,000 tomorrow, there could be another 17,000, which means that this number of infections is about to increase. When I listen to experts, it seems to me that it is appropriate to go this way, that choices that will necessarily generate an increase in the threat and result in an increase in the number of diseases, I am convinced about this, is the law of great numbers... I think we should get back to the election issue only if we have a long, visible downward trend of the epidemic, the results of the succession.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u22	Thank you very much. And the third... I don't know if... You're asking Senator Gogacz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about the second paragraph. In this second paragraph, you mention the limitations that citizens are subject to in relation to the epidemic. But in the last sentence, you make a very large charge to those who introduce these restrictions. Namely, you state that... I'm sorry, but... These changes were often made by regulations of the Minister or the Council of Ministers, so - As you say here, sir. Contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Well, there's a department of freedom and personal rights in the constitution, but even as they are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, I'm asking the question... Excuse me... ...even if there's a chapter in the Constitution on rights and freedoms... But in almost all these rights there is a reference to the law: unless the ordinary law provides for... And then these freedoms can be limited. And here we have the situation that we have a law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, and under this law these regulations are issued, Art. 46, 22, 23... and since regulations are issued on the basis of the bill, why do you say that regulations are issued unconstitutionally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u25	Mr. Senator, the bill... It wasn't just the bill, it was the regulations, and those regulations weren't in line with the constitution, or the introduction of these restrictions... a regulation of the Minister of Health which introduced a ban on the movement of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It doesn't appear, it doesn't appear directly. The Act on Combating Infections and Diseases talks about restricting the way of movement. The Minister of Health has introduced restrictions on movement throughout the country. According to many constitutionalists this is contrary to the constitution, the Minister of Health has no such right. Such a decision may be taken by a regulation of the Council of Ministers rather than by the Minister of Health. In a later regulation of the Council of Ministers, on 31 March, this solution was absorbed, i.e. this defect was sort of eliminated, but for some time it was a bad law in Poland. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're gonna ask for it. Don't argue... Well, Mr. Senator, I've made my point, you've presented yours. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u26	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would like to address the issue of co-existence of 2 laws, namely the Act on the State of Natural Disaster, proposed by the States in this resolution, and the Act, which is actually used to combat the coronavirus, from 2008, to prevent and combat infectious diseases in humans. Question one. On what basis in the first paragraph on the other side of the text did you write the phrase: the legal basis for most prohibitions, orders and restrictions introduced by the Government can only give the 2002 Act on the State of Natural Disaster? Do you think there are two categories of laws, better and worse? Because the constitution doesn't say that. Laws have the same legal force. Even if the law is called the codex, it has the same legal force as any other law. And here we are not dealing with code laws that lead in a given branch of law. Explain, in a clear text, why you divide the bill for better and worse. Question two, specific. Which legal solutions which are needed and which are used in the Act, so to speak, preventative, prevent and combat infectious diseases in people, or infectious, which of these solutions are not in this Act, and therefore need to be set up an additional law, namely the Act on Natural Disaster? Does the government lack any tools and must establish this second law to fight the coronavirus effectively? There's an old rule: don't multiply your existence over your need. Why make another bill if the first one is enough? Or isn't that enough? So I would like to get a clear answer from you, because you are also the representative of the applicants and not just the rapporteur of the committee. What did the applicants mean? Next question: in the bill... Perhaps otherwise: you want to change these laws, i.e. instead of the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, apply the act on the state of natural disaster. So please tell me clearly whether these two laws are to be applied side by side or one instead of the other? Because if the act on natural disaster is to replace the law on infectious diseases... Well, the Act on Natural Disaster has no idea at all about Epidemic. How do you want to fight an epidemic without even having a definition? The definition of epidemics, epidemics and epidemics that are currently being used or the potentially needed definition of zero zone and buffer zone is not included in the Natural Disaster Act. Then why use the tool... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd ask the sufflers to sit down because I'm talking to an applicant's representative right now. Mr. Senator, but please... The marshal's keeping order in the courtroom. But, Mrs. Marshal, this order isn't visible yet. Mr. Marshal... Not yet. Mr. Senator, please continue with the question. But let's be positive. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the three questions for the good morning, i.e. questions about the status of both laws, about the tools which these laws give, and about the relationship of these laws to each other. I'm asking for specific answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u28	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u29	Mr. Senator, I've talked about this a little bit. Of course, I admit that in this law, which you refer to, the Act on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, there are provisions that are also contained in the Act on the State of Natural Disaster. In this respect, they complement each other in a way or introduce similar solutions. The higher of the act on the state of the natural disaster is that it treats the epidemic, which is in Poland, more comprehensively, which is the result of the constitution. The Constitution, assuming the possibility of introducing a natural disaster, in Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the So it is introduced on the basis of the Act on the State of Natural Disaster. But there are also some differences between these laws, Mr. Senator. Well, for example. The law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans talks about the temporary limitation of movement, talks about the temporary limitation of the operation of workplaces. The Act on Natural Disaster refers to the suspension of the activities of certain workplaces. There's a difference, though. With regard to the subsequent interpretations of whether you have the right to say that all hairdressers and all hotelers must close their business, it is clear from the Act on the State of Natural Disaster that the State has the right to do so. In the latter case, interpretations may differ. So that these rules are not identical, although I admit that this law also regulates certain issues. You're asking why we want to come up with a new bill when one already works. I gave you these differences, but above all, we don't make up any laws. This bill is working. The Act on the State of the Natural Disaster was adopted in 2002 and is still in force. You can use it, you don't have to think of anything. The third topic concerned how I imagined the functioning of the Polish state, since today there are restrictions resulting from the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in people, and the Act on the State of Natural Disaster will be introduced. That is the question to those who will introduce this law. I suspect that at least some of the paragraphs or the entire bill will have to be extinguished and another law introduced. But that's the question. Not to me. We are talking today about the fact that in Poland there is an emergency state • that there are extraordinary restrictions, which do not fit in the terms of normal legal solutions. And in order to best reflect the spirit and intentions of the emergency state, we need to introduce a law on the introduction of an emergency condition dedicated to such situations. And the act on the state of natural disaster is best used to regulate the state of law in Poland during an emergency state. If I may, Mrs. Marshal, ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u30	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u31	Thank you for the opportunity. I asked a very simple question: do we apply the solutions of both laws at once or one of them? If we're talking epidemics, 'cause that's what we're talking about here. It is a law on the fight against infection in humans, this tens-page text only talks about epidemics, and the act on natural disaster speaks about it in one sentence. So which one's more detailed, accurate, handy? You were talking about limiting the infection bill, and here about disabling... I don't know what the concept is in the case of the act on natural disasters. What is more drastic: time limitation or permanent exclusion of certain enterprises? That's how I understand it. But the most important thing is: if the law on prevention and control of infectious diseases in humans is applied, it works out and the government does not ask for further amendments to introduce new tools, then why? This is not about the law, because it is, of course, a law since 2002. To introduce a new emergency? That's a fundamental question. Why a new state of emergency to fight the coronavirus if the law already used is enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u32	You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u33	Mr. Senator, the Act on the State of Natural Disaster gives the right to impose restrictions on not all who are in this Act by regulations. The Act on the State of Natural Disasters concerns various disasters. It concerns infectious diseases, floods and various other situations. It shows a range of different limitations, but not all of these restrictions need to be introduced. And she's just out of the constitution, and that's her asset. As for the second question, I have already said that the search for natural disasters of legal solutions, which from the law on the fight against infections and infectious diseases in people will still have to be applied, will then be a problem implementing this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u34	Thank you very much. Excuse me, one sentence, one sentence. No, no. Good. Mr. Senator, the senator answered the question and said he had already answered it before. Good. I think it might be more of a senator's voice in the discussion. Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have these questions. First: Is it true that the fundamental freedoms of citizens now have been reduced? The right to move and the right to assembly? The second question: is the only form of protection of a very important, key principle of the sovereignty of the nation the introduction of a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster? Is it so that the state of the natural disaster is, so to speak, the only form that will restore in a constitutional way the stability of the sovereignty of the nation in the form of free elections which cannot be held for obvious reasons at present? The third thing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Did the President of the State Election Commission of the Senate express such a view The head of the PKW as an institution that oversees the application of electoral law, that the simplest way out of this crisis is to introduce a natural disaster?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u36	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u37	Thank you. I, often repeating that in Poland we have an emergency state, was talking about the fact that in the fight against the epidemic we today restrict constitutional rights and civil liberties, among others. the right to move, the right to participate in religious practices, the right to assembly. They are limited in different ways and sometimes there are doubts about how to limit these rights. First of all, the recognition that the limitation of civil rights and freedoms can only occur in an emergency situation... The emergency situation is confirmed in a legal manner by the introduction of an emergency state. In the situation which is in Poland, the state of emergency, which is dedicated, refers to such a situation, is the state of the natural disaster. And this is one of the important advantages of this bill. The second advantage is the possibility of introducing legal order, finally, in our country. The other asset you're talking about, the senator. 'Cause to me, it's an asset. That's the solution to this election pat we're in today... 'Cause it's undoubtedly a stalemate. There is no link between elections and epidemics, as you can see clearly. And for logistical reasons, it is very difficult... The state, your formation is looking for these solutions, and whatever it finds, it causes more and more protests and more reservations of constitutionalists' lawyers. These protests are very big. And above all, what is most beautiful and most important in the election is destroyed, what is the essence of democracy, what makes us say that elections are so important... I'm talking about the election campaign. Today, of course, we can theoretically imagine that, with the present reservations, we can organize a gathering in the football stadium and in the semi-hectare square to gather 400 people, but it is not really possible to campaign today. And the election without an election campaign isn't an election. It's an election joke, it's just a vote. Mr. Senator, the legislator, by introducing these six conditions that must meet the state of the natural disaster, was very predictable. Without knowing today's realities, he introduced two important restrictions: one concerning the failure to change during the state of extraordinary ordination, the right to vote, and the other concerning the non-organization of elections. Apparently, the group of people who created these records was aware that in such situations the advantage over the rest of society is that they can destroy political life and social life in the country, that is, over-representation or, I would say, the over-presence of the ruling formation in public space can be so great that it can actually completely change the political reality in the country. And it's today that he sees a lot of people, including the people you were talking about, like the senator. Chairman of the PKW. I listened on TV today with some surprise, but also with some hope, one of the senators who said that perhaps the introduction of a natural disaster is the only way out of this stalemate. That was your friend. So that I think that slowly too in your formation there is awareness that democratic elections cannot be conducted in an epidemic state. Besides, the Poles have made it clear that they do not want to take part in these elections. I'll give you a heads-up. Maybe one more question. That's the question that came up, that's the charge that came up at the Legislative Committee when one of your senators said that we wanted to delay the election because our candidate had little support. Well, gentlemen and senators, I will explain in a very simple way how it is that this support is scarce. If we have 3 people who say that they will take part in the election, and 2 of these 3 people say that they will vote for Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska and one for Andrzej Duda, what support does Andrzej Duda have? Thirty-three percent. And if these two people say they won't take part in the election, what support does Andrzej Duda have? And that is the great support for Andrzej Duda that people are afraid of elections, and we responsibly do not encourage people to take part in elections, we do not say to them: risk your health and life to participate in this performance. Because we believe that the danger of escalating the epidemic exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u38	Thank you very much. Would Senator Brejza like to ask? Because you volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u39	Yes, Mrs. Marshal, one more thing. Is it true, Senator, that in the event of a natural disaster, a special law of 22 November 2002 on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the period of extraordinary freedom and civil rights will also be applied and that this law has a special mechanism specifically created for general claims under the Civil Code?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u40	I already said that the bill... One of the great advantages of this law is that it allows to rationalize these losses or claims of property that can be brought before the Polish state. There are solutions that regulate it. Their condition is the introduction of a state of emergency in Poland. If this is not the case, these arguments are not to be used. And such a thread already exists in Polish reality. Many experts have already spoken on this subject and commented that it is true that... It is not what some politicians have said, that the introduction of the state of the natural disaster will lead Poland into enormous compensation. It could be different. E.g. Prof. Ewa Łętowska clearly states that such allegations against the state of the natural disaster are a bluff, a scam, an interesting manipulation to disgust the state of the natural disaster. We should consider this too, because we need to be responsible. And Poland for the first time... For the first time, we are debating the state of the natural disaster, but also for the first time we have an emergency situation that affects the whole country. And we, as the applicant, are convinced that this is the way to manage this epidemic crisis in Poland: declaring the state of the natural disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marek Pak. You're welcome. Mrs. Marshal, I'm dropping the question because my questions have already been asked. Thank you very much. Senator Jacek Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the whole world is working on a vaccine, and you already have it. Well, because the introduction of a state of disaster is, in your opinion, a vaccine for Cortipinus, and it will cure all the problems and the economy, and the sick, and of course, it will cure the electoral process. Then why don't you expose this vaccine if you do. Well, to be very serious: trying to seriously analyze your arguments, well, logic can't be found in this. I am trying to combine yesterday's vote and reject the possibility of correspondence voting with this proposal that we are considering today. Well, on the one hand, you're talking about getting it to the point where... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka:...]] Yes, in a moment, I'll ask you a question, but I have to give you a context, Mrs. Marshal. On the one hand, you are talking about the fact that elections should be postponed until they are safe and, on the other hand, you reject the possibility of correspondence voting. Do you really not realize that there will not be such a moment that the epidemic will end overnight? I'm not a doctor, but I was an attorney for the fight against African swine fever, and I know that this disease continues until today, it takes years. It'll probably be the same with the coronavirus. American experts are saying that the autumn-winter return will be even stronger. Mrs Merkel, your patron saint, is saying that... Mrs. Marshal! ...we'll live with the coronavirus for a long time. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] So the question is, do you consider that this state of natural disaster... Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. You'll finish, then I'll give you the floor. The state of the natural disaster will have to continue, according to your logic, for two or three years. Did you consider this as an applicant? That's all the time it takes for the coronavirus to go out completely so that the threat will go out completely. Thank you... Second question... Oh, one more thing. Have you considered that the Constitution prohibits the introduction and renewal of a natural disaster solely because of the elections? How many times in Poland have there been indications of a natural disaster, and why have previous governments not benefited from it? I will remind you, there was a flood, there were droughts or other natural disasters that did not cover the whole country, but often covered most of the country, and were equally tragic for the economy and Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u43	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal, I'm asking your marshal as a guide to respond to speeches and the use of words that shouldn't be said. No, to the Rules of Procedure... I'm gonna put this on the board of directors. Well, the fact that we may differ in the perception of certain phenomena and events is okay, but the use of such comparisons as you used by the senator is not appropriate in this House. Tell yourself this in your community, Senator, please, but in the public forum of the Senate, in relation to us, please do not make such statements. Our patron is the voters, Senator. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm gonna put this on the board so you can be punished. But specifically... Mr. Senator, could you be more specific? Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal, I am asking Senator Bogucky to apologize immediately to all of us senators... Oh! [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...from our club, because above all, we do not wish for such terms... That's what you have to listen to. Regardless of whether I say it so, because of the bad will or other reasons Senator Bogucki is directing, such things cannot happen in the Senate. None of us are talking about Senator Bogucki speaking Vladimir Putin. Right? And we're not talking about it, even though the associations are coming up on their own. Therefore, I expect you and the senators of our club to apologize immediately by Senator Bogucki. Otherwise, it will be referred, as Senator Czarnobaj said, to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u46	Thank you very much. I draw everyone's attention to the language. I would very much ask you to actually refrain from the terms you used by the senator. I would very much ask you gentlemen, if that is the will, to make this request, as you have announced. I'm asking you to calm down. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u47	I understand it was Mrs Merkel, right? I'm asking because I don't know which of my statements offended the senators. Remember. Don't argue. [[Can I be more specific?]] Yes...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u48	Now, Mr. Senator. Please. No, no, I just...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u49	Mr. Senator, once again, I want to say what you said to Senator Klich. We don't use such words for you that your patron is... And this is where we could exchange the different dictators of the world. We're not doing it, although we could do it. I'm here on a formal matter. I'd like to report... That's why I'd like you to apologize for using our patronage statement on us. But I don't think he's a dictator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, please... Is there anything else Senator Bogucki would like to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u51	No, no... If it's offended... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait, wait, wait. If it has offended the senators in any way, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u52	I hope that settles things between the two of you. And I would very much ask you to refrain from such colorful terms. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u53	Mrs Marshal, first of all, I would like to point out that formal requests are being given in a non-order manner. What didn't happen this time. And the other thing. I would like to ask, in what way did the senators take the floor, because they were not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u54	Mr. Senator, I have allowed these votes as ad vocem and I think the whole situation has been calmed down because Senator Bogucki could also explain this issue. Besides, even if the application is formal, I will not interrupt another senator who is just speaking. So, if you'll all please remain calm... Oh, no, no, no, no. You're welcome to remain calm. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm and continue... But, Mrs. Marshal, you deny the obvious facts. ...to continue to respond. That was before the senators spoke. Mr. Senator, please calm down. Please respond, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u55	Thank you very much. I, to be honest, didn't feel very offended that you called me some kind of... that my patron is Merkel, because in my mind, it only embarrasses you, not me. Second thing. Nor am I going to be any messiah, also anyone in the committee or in the group who requested this resolution or the implementation of it, there is no such ambition, so tours of the kind that we found a wonderful cure to fight the epidemic are inappropriate. We point to a better solution in the situation in which Poland was found. We are convinced of this solution. So you have to look for a better solution. We have rejected the concept of correspondence voting and I do not see any contradiction with the fact that today we are applying for the introduction of a natural disaster in Poland. But everyone can judge that according to their own logic. Here's another thing. Senator, the introduction of a natural disaster, the removal from the electoral perspective for at least four months, does not mean that Parliament cannot work on better forms of election. If it turns out it's gonna be as you say it is. And it's very real. I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. that the state of the natural disaster will be prolonged, it may be necessary to refine the electoral method, introduce the technique of mixed elections, i.e. what some politicians are proposing today. Also our leader, Boris Budka, says: let us work on an election ordination that will allow us to combine various forms of election. But let's not do it in the way it's done at the moment, on the proverbial cape, when, without preparation, we introduce a new electoral law three days before the end of the election campaign. And this campaign hasn't even started yet, and at this point we're trying to find an electoral solution for these elections. Fourth thing. It is not as you say that the state of the natural disaster can be prolonged and that we want to introduce it because of the elections. I made six arguments in this case. Each of these six arguments is important. Among them, and this is clear from the Constitution There is an argument for not having elections in an epidemic state. And I guess that's it... Oh, you asked why this wasn't first introduced. I'm not a historian, so far I'm a senator and I'm more concerned about the future than I am about the analysis of the past. But I do not know the case in which 700 people in Poland would die for one reason within 2 months. And this is what we have today. We have 100,000 people quarantined, 14,000 infected. If you show that this was the case in Poland, go ahead. But then you have to resent those who were in charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind, a brief addition. Yes, you're welcome. Briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u57	Mr. Senator, you haven't paid attention, you haven't paid attention to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 6th Constitution, which says this, I will recall that during the emergency state cannot be amended: the Constitution, the electoral orders to the Sejm, the Senate and the local government authorities, the Act on election of the President and the Act on Emergency States. So to say that it will be possible to refine the electoral system during an emergency, or disaster, is, well, a lie. You can't do that until the next election. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Piecha... Mrs. Marshal, may I? Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur... Mr. Senator, it's you. There you go. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u59	Mr. Senator, there's no lie here. After the natural disaster there is a 90-day period for preparing elections, in a natural disaster state we can work on various legal solutions, ask experts for help, develop good solutions and adopt them after the natural disaster. It's, I think, very simple.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u61	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. As we know, this emergency has been happening since March 4th. Today is May 6, which means we are almost two months in this state of emergency. During this period, local government elections took place in 26 municipalities. Are these elections important to you, sir? There was no election campaign, candidates could not present themselves only on the Internet. And in the polling stations, the committees sat from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. I would like to ask if there has been an increase in the incidences in these municipalities. If we want to be precise... And I'll give you an example from abroad. South Korea held parliamentary elections during the epidemic. Why? To ensure that the legitimacy of power is not undermined, that power is continuous and that resolutions or laws which they will introduce cannot be undermined. It's the same thing in the United States, there's no campaign being suspended, it's still going on. That's where the primary will be, there'll be elections in November. And nothing's happening. First of all, you want this presidential election, our Polish elections, not to take place in May. Except we still have two more dates on May 17th and 23rd. And hopefully we'll benefit from that. The President's authority, which is very important... Someone said it was someone's power under a chandelier that he was sitting under a chandelier. The president signs the bill, this is the last important element... and such a saying that these elections cannot be held, although we are relaxing the economy at the moment, we introduce the possibility of children going to kindergarten, to day care... Self-governments must prepare for this and have the means to do so. And we keep saying that we can't make these choices. So, what's it like, we're just chilling out here, and all of a sudden, we're trying to bring in a natural disaster? Well, for a mere mortal as I am, it's ridiculous. It's getting a little backwards... Mr. Senator, question. Ask me a question. Are these supplementary municipal elections important according to the rapporteur's senator and have the number of diseases increased in these municipalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u62	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u63	Senator, there is no emergency situation in Poland and regulations are in place that are adequate to the emergency condition, without this emergency state being introduced. We've talked about this a lot. We want this legal order to be introduced and that this emergency situation formally becomes an emergency. As for local and local elections, I will not speak because I do not know whether there has been an increase in the number of diseases or not, or what measures have been applied there. But that's not proof, to be honest. The same thing we could do with someone driving 200 km/h and reaching their destination, figuring out that in that case we can all drive 200 km/h. Well, somebody's arrived. If one municipality succeeded, it does not mean that 2.5 thousand municipalities will also succeed. As for these foreign examples, they are either inadequate or testify to something completely different. The Bavarian elections point to the danger of such elections. And the Bavarian elections weren't about the whole country. They were held only in 34 out of 96 districts and in about 700 out of 2 000 Bavarian municipalities. And what is the result of these elections? That Bavaria, which was in the middle of the disease statistics in Germany She was probably in fifth or fourth place. After the election she became the leader, the prevalence in Bavaria became the highest of all the lands. So let's learn from Bavaria's mistakes. It was also a correspondence election. Thank you very much... One more piece of information. Uh-huh. Elections in South Korea. Well, I, too, think that we should first bring about the situation in South Korea and then think about the elections. In South Korea, just before the election, several, several dozen cases of illness were reported a day, which is how many deaths a day are reported. The increase in morbidity is visible, today these diseases are over 400. In Korea, a country more numerous than Poland, this incidence was ten times lower than in Poland. Well, in such a situation you can talk about organizing elections in a language other than those you talk about in Poland. There are also 20,000 tests a day in Korea. The detection of people infected in that society is much greater than in Poland, so the risk of an uncontrolled increase in the number of diseases is lower there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u65	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, being in room 217, I can't always ask questions. Here you cannot report as quickly as in the plenary room, you have to wait for your queue. Mr. Senator, I asked three questions earlier, and from what I understand from the second question, it follows that you are still in favour of introducing a state of natural disaster, i.e. significantly restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens. And that means that we say to hundreds of thousands of cross-border workers: we close the borders, you can't go back to work. It involves, among other things. with dismissals, very often disciplinary. And as far as the Prime Minister's invitation is concerned, I checked it out. This invitation was received just over two hours before the committee meeting, so that talking about the fact that the Prime Minister was invited, as we have heard in your report, is an abuse. But I'd like to get back to the third question because you didn't answer that question. I asked about the 2008 Act and how the epidemiological risk situation or the state that is now, the epidemic, violates the legal order. Because you said in your report that the current situation is in breach of the legal order, and this is the situation that follows from the 2008 Act introduced by the PO-PSL government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u66	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u67	Thank you very much. It is not that we are forced to apply any restrictions by introducing a state of natural disaster. The Constitution clearly states that the measures taken as a result of the introduction of an emergency must correspond to the degree of threat and should aim to restore the normal functioning of the State as soon as possible. And that's a clue as to the use of those rigors that allow us to introduce a state of natural disaster. He doesn't say that you have to introduce all the restrictions, he says that you have to minimize them, and they have to respond to the degree of danger. In my mind, these limitations are already there, but they are not called the state of the natural disaster. The height of the introduction... I answer this last question here, that is the opinion of the applicants. The superiority of the state of the natural disaster over the situation after the introduction of the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans is that this law is dedicated to an emergency condition. And in our view, this is already the case, because there is a restriction on civil rights and freedoms, there is talk of an emergency situation, but at the same time there is no introduction into the reality of a law that would confirm that this is an emergency state. And that, I think, is the superiority of this solution, i.e. the superiority of the implementation of the Act on the State of Natural Disaster over the implementation of solutions under the Act on the fight against infection and infectious diseases in humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Can Senator Grzegorz Bierecki hear us? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Remotely, I know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u69	Yeah, now I see the mike's on. Thank you very much, Marshal. During this meeting, as well as during the rapporteur's last speech, several times the call for one of the emergency states, which is the state of the natural disaster, was raised. The introduction of the state of the natural disaster entails the need for the budget to bear enormous costs, which are currently estimated by various economists at at least 10 gross domestic product. So here we are talking about the huge amounts that would be paid by the state budget if the natural disaster was introduced, completely unnecessary, because the law applied at the moment is fully fulfilling its role. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the costs arising from the introduction of the natural disaster were discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, whether the senators had information on this issue, calculations on the expected value of compensation. The government has repeatedly pointed out how big it is here. So that's my question. I have a motion, too. I would like to make a request to refer this bill to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance so that we can give an opinion in this committee on this senate appeal, the consequences of which may be mourned for the state budget. So on the basis of the article. 48 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I request a reference to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u70	There you go, Mr. Senator. I'll just say one thing: it's a resolution, a draft resolution, not a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u71	Thank you. Yes, that is correct, Mrs Marshal, this is a resolution and this is an appeal to the President of the Council of Ministers or to the Council of Ministers to introduce this state, not a law in which we must show the costs. I, to be honest, don't know these calculations. It's a pity that if they exist... It can't be... ...it's not public. But if there are any calculations that say 10% GDP as a cost of introducing a natural disaster is also important for what it is intended to be used for. Because if... Although it cannot be concluded from the law that such costs may arise. But if they had e.g. helping companies survive this natural disaster, well very well, the government has money for this purpose, dedicated, so it is not a problem. But I will say that the committee did not deal with this problem, treating it as an appeal to the Council of Ministers, and if the Council of Ministers were to lean on it, it would probably address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u73	Dear Marshal! High Senate! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In the resolution, we have a number of opinions in the draft resolution, let's say, an obvious number of discussion sentences, but this resolution culminates in this sentence: The concentration of all political forces, state administration and local government Over the divisions, over the fight against the epidemic. Well, moving elections clearly, Mr... Senator rapporteur, it will intensify the political conflict and cause political chaos. Therefore, I ask: why do you want to add more political conflict and political chaos to the problems, to the health crisis, to the economic crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u74	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u75	Mr. Senator, with all due respect, we are absolutely different views. The introduction of the act on the state of the natural disaster postpones the term of the elections and for practically a few months we can concentrate only on what we think is most important, namely the fate of Poles, companies, the national economy during the epidemic. The election is then postponed for a further period of time, without a specific deadline, for the time when the epidemic can be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'd ask you to have precise answers, too. Again. It's question number one from that line. Well, no matter when it was passed, if it is an existing law, it is not possible to divide and compare it with another law. The Constitution clearly states: all laws are the sources of law. First there's a constitution, then there's laws. On what basis, once again, did you put in the text the wording that the legal basis for most prohibitions, orders and restrictions introduced under one law... that this would be lawful and that their implementation under another law would be incompatible? With a constitution? Tell me what the basis of your reasoning is. Is there any reason here at all? And now we come to the really basic issues, let's leave the formal legal issues... Money issues, money issues. Extraordinary states, if any of them are introduced, only the state of the natural disaster is possible here, force the application of the 2002 Special Law on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the state of extraordinary freedom and human rights and the citizen. Let's call it compensation in a nutshell. Senator, please tell me whether this compensation bill excludes the possibility of seeking damages on a general basis or Okay, here's the It introduces a new path, a new mode, not in the form of judicial action, not in the form of a judicial process, but in the form of an administrative procedure. We know how many business trials are going on with us. This administrative mode, which is here, is only 3 months for the decision to compensate and a month for the payment. What's more favorable, in your opinion? Because you say this bill is blocking. If it blocks, why do economists say that the Polish state could lose so much? What's better? Is it a quick administrative procedure, or is it a free court procedure, a civil one? It is not enough that this law allows, if someone is dissatisfied with compensation which has been appointed administratively, to appear normally in civil courts, e.g. Asking for a higher amount. Interestingly enough, this law exempts from procedural costs, actually from the entry. We know how high entries in civil matters are. So what's it like, Senator? Does a law that relieves entry in a civil trial, which allows entry without any effort to the judicial stage, make it easier or more difficult, as you said, in terms of compensation opportunities? Because in normal mode there has to be an entry, you have to have money to start a civil process, and in this mode, it doesn't exist in the mode of this act. It can be seen that, for one of these two reasons, it is easier to obtain compensation on the basis of this law. I'm asking for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u78	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u79	Senator, I have expressed my opinion whether the applicants have expressed their opinion, you have expressed your opinion, authorities have expressed their views. It's hard to discuss who's more right, whether you're more convincing or mine. Since the emergency situation allows to take account of the emergency situation in the matter of compensation, since it limits these compensations to property losses and many authorities say that it will be beneficial for the Polish state... I believe these authorities. You may not believe it, but we will not convince each other that you are right, not Professor Ewa Łętowska, for example.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u80	May I, Mrs. Marshal? Again, I have not received an answer to this first legislative question. Why do you divide the laws into equals and equals?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u81	Will you, Mr. Senator, answer again? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u82	Mr Senator, I have said from the very beginning that the state of the natural disaster is more consistent with the real situation which is in Poland, and I have given 6 arguments, these are the reasons why we, as the applicant, have submitted this request. Only 1 of these arguments is a re-election, 5 other proposals relate to other cases. I believe that for these five reasons it is worth introducing a state of natural disaster. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have questions for the rapporteur, although, listening to the questions and answers asked, it must be said that the senator answers very much around and does not have specific answers to specific questions. We can probably see for ourselves here, but I say, I am convinced, and I think a number of senators are convinced that the authors of this resolution or the applicants who signed it had one purpose: to move elections. We're just charming ourselves that there are five other issues here that help fight the coronavirus. I have such questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. I see. I ask, since you are the rapporteur, you have assumed the obligation to present and answer questions. That the State has thoroughly analysed both the provisions of the Constitution, the provisions of the Act on the introduction of natural disasters and the Act on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases in humans. In this resolution there are a number of charges which, as if they had us as senators, convince us that this resolution has to be adopted. Then I have the following questions for you. I'd like you to take this into account. Because I understand that you have analyzed everything from A to Z in these 3 laws that I spoke about, including the constitution, said what fundamental rights and civil liberties have been reduced or suspended for today. I'd like you to bring it up to speed. Because when I read the bill, I don't see anything contrary to the constitution or contrary to the law on prevention and the fight against infectious infections and diseases in humans. That's the first line. Two. Is it true that the law on preventing and combating infections and infectious diseases in humans... I'm reading her title because you were talking about... Mr. Senator talking about an epidemic bill, and there's no such bill, there's just this bill. Is it true that this law provides for inter alia. Or do you say you don't want a convention or a spectacle? What do you think, as the rapporteur's senator, is the charge that school exams have been postponed? Because that's the record in this resolution. And I think... I'm convinced that the fact that school exams have just been postponed is not a charge. Are you saying that it shouldn't be... are you saying that there shouldn't be reschedule exams that should take place? And that's all I'd like to start with... And are you even able to identify, state, what prohibitions and orders are allowed by the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u85	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u86	Thank you. I may say to the previous answers that... because I have found an expert position that says that, contrary to public interpretations, the state of the natural disaster does not mean the need to pay out devastating compensation for the budget or the need to reduce human and citizen rights. The Constitution allows for compensation of property losses in the manner and to the extent specified in the Act. Similarly, it allows for the possibility of restricting different kinds of freedom. And that's also the answer to your question. The Constitution also forces That's what I've been talking about. In terms of these restrictions on civil rights and freedoms, the aim is to reduce them as much as possible and to return to normal as soon as possible. We listed in this draft resolution restrictions which were introduced in Poland, without any emotional color. We simply exchanged them, not to mention whether the shift of exams is good or bad, but that such limitations and such regulations have been introduced. And I also talked about how we look at human rights and citizens. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that most of us remember the times of the Polish People's Republic and the ease with which these laws were limited. Today, there is no doubt that if the number of participants in religious practices is reduced to e.g. Five people... Well, this is not in line with constitutional guarantees of free pursuit or free pursuit of religious practices. This is a restriction on constitutional law. The same is true of the right to assembly. The Constitution guarantees it, but the regulations introduced limit it. Freedom of movement is also a constitutional value and is also restricted. We therefore believe that it would be appropriate to name this state in which such restrictions are introduced, a state of emergency, rather than to say that in which elections can be organised, various things can be done, constitutional rights and civil liberties must be reduced. From the perspective of looking at the legal order, it is more logical to say As it is said in the Constitution The fact that the emergency situation allows for a reduction of civil rights is the requirement of an emergency situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u87	Thank you very much. I'm still... If you don't mind asking, 'cause... Okay... ...Mrs. Marshal... Wait a minute. You'll be able to ask. Good. I am merely informing you that, after the list of questions has been exhausted, a formal motion will still be put to the vote, which has been tabled by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki under Article. 48 (1) (a) 2 (6). Please note, therefore, that after the list of questions has been completed, the vote on this proposal will be held. You're welcome to ask, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u88	Thank you. I'm sorry to have come into your word a little bit, but your marshal is watching the Senate sitting room. As the senator's colleague spoke here earlier He sees senators who still want to ask questions, and us here in the courtroom, no one can see anymore, and we can hardly ask. I... Ask questions, Senator. Good. I'm sure it'll be a possibility. I asked the question I didn't get... I mean, I practically didn't get an answer to any of the questions. But I'm talking about a specific question for the Senator rapporteur. Is it possible, in accordance with this Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, to ban assembly and to ban the organisation of spectacles?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u89	Mr. Senator, of course there is. This is permitted by Art. 31. He allows you to restrict constitutional rights and freedoms. I talked about this in the report from the committee meeting. And I said that some arguments concerning the regulation which are introduced by law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, the arguments of the Senators of Law and Justice, that certain issues can be regulated under that law, are justified. I only ask you to look at the situation present by the prism of all 6 arguments for introducing the state of the natural disaster which I gave, including, let us not hide, through the prism of the problem of organising during the epidemic elections. But all six arguments have to be dealt with together. I also said that some of the solutions that have been introduced by various regulations, and I also referred to the regulation of the Minister of Health, show that the government or individual ministries had a problem with the said article and with the introduction of these restrictions into the regulations. And I said that the law on the fight against infections and infectious diseases in people treats certain limitations differently than the act on the state of natural disaster. This also applies to the wording "limiting the operation of workplaces' and "closing the workplaces'. These wordings are different in both laws and can raise controversial opinions also in lawyers. Summa summarum, on the basis of all these arguments, we considered that a greater legal order in Poland would occur if we put in place a state of natural disaster and on the basis of this state we will fight the threat. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, can you still...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u90	Thank you. ...one short line... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u91	Thank you. That's... I mean. I see that there's no point in asking any more questions, because the Senator rapporteur always has one album on all the time, and he just plays it all the time. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you a question. Exactly. Nevertheless, you said it was okay, because art. 31th Act states so. A. The 31th law of. I have it just opened up to you....sounds as follows. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1: The Chief Sanitary Inspector shall draw up and publish national numerical reports on registered infections, diseases and deaths of infections and infectious diseases subject to notification; and paragraph 1. 2: The Chief Sanitary Inspector may instruct the preparation of the national report referred to in paragraph 2. 1, the entity it designates. So either the Senator rapporteur knows what he's talking about, or the Senator rapporteur doesn't know what he's talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u92	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u93	Senator, it is not our role today to explain all the points and all the articles of these two laws or other laws. We have presented a vision of regulating the state of law in Poland in this particular situation that exists with us when there are problems that our country has when there is an epidemic on which the issue of elections is imposed. Summa summarum all these circumstances made us ask for an emergency that would allow us to bring about a certain legal order and set up problems according to their real value. For us, the greatest value and most important issue is the removal of electoral cases that cannot be resolved within 3 or 4 days, because you can already see that you will not be able to do this, and it will continue to continue, and to address the issue of the epidemic and the problems it generates. And that is our task, the group that made this request, not the thorough analysis of every section of the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u94	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you recall in the text of the resolution several times that the government's actions so far carried out or carried out are contrary to the Constitution's provisions, that even this constitution in the current legislation is being violated. Question one. Did you go to the Constitutional Court, only entitled to speak about whether something is constitutional or not, whether the actions taken by the government are constitutional or whether you have such opinions of the Constitutional Court, judgments? The second question is whether you do not think that this resolution is another proof that the Senate of the Republic of Poland usurps the right to be an alternative centre of power. This is the second Senate meeting at which the Senate adopts a resolution I'm pretty sure it's gonna be like this. In this particular case, the Council of Ministers had previously been the Minister of Education. There is a new tradition that the Senate uses its capabilities to apply such resolutions and such instruction to the constitutional organs of the state. The third question concerns the question of a certain logic... Mr. Senator, one minute. Please be brief in your third question. I'll do my best. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The third question concerns the logic of the text. Because on the one hand, you point out that these actions by the government lead to civil liberties being violated, that they are too restrictive, severe for society, and on the other hand, the same solutions, only in an emergency situation, would be acceptable to you. And another question, that's the last one. What kind of solution would you propose if in Poland It is good that 14 thousand cases of disease did not occur in 2 months, but in Poland, or if 700 deaths did occur not within 2 months, but per day? Why do you think the government's actions are not effective at the moment? By comparing the situation in Poland to the situation... Mr. Senator... ...in Western European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u96	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u97	Mr. Senator, we have not addressed the Constitutional Court. We're having second thoughts about whether it makes sense. You're talking about some new Senate tradition. We believe that there is a new tradition of the functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Court of Justice with some kind of friendly arrangement, about social values. It's shaped and that's what we're talking about. That's the answer. I am not concerned that the Senate is appealing to ministers or to the Prime Minister, because I think it is our role if we notice a problem and look for a solution so that we can suggest these solutions. Nor will I play with what I already told the senator in the prophet neither in the messiah nor in the psychic, and suggest the answer to the question of how we would behave if 700 people died in Poland a day. Whatever I say, you would just have to take it as a fact, because it would be an unverifiable answer. And I also have this accusation against you that you're suggesting that we in the draft resolution have dropped something. We in the draft resolution state certain things. I'm gonna read this part. If you read here that we're accusing... Well, that's not how I read it. The fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are therefore restricted or even suspended. These are not ordinary constitutional measures, these are emergency measures, and the Constitution for situations where ordinary constitutional measures are insufficient provides for the possibility of introducing one of the three emergency states. In the context of the epidemic in Poland, the state of the natural disaster is clearly appropriate. So we're not talking about the fact that no emergency measures can be imposed, but we're talking about the fact that it would be more appropriate to introduce an emergency and to base it on the Natural Disaster Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u99	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, these limitations that you are criticizing now result from the 2008 Act. Your political community has adopted this law and the government is now using it. And I have three questions. First of all, you regretted that we have no calculations as to the consequences of the natural disaster. I would like to remind you that in the report, Senator Czerwiński made a formal application on this issue and the Senators of the Civic Coalition rejected it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would very much ask you to calm down because you can't hear me. Mr. Senator speaks from another room, and you can't really hear. This formal application was rejected, inter alia. by applicants. That's why we don't have those calculations. Now we have a formal conclusion from Senator Bierecki. I hope so, among other things. You will be voting for us at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to learn about the costs of introducing a natural disaster... Mr. Senator, questions. Questions... Of course, I have a question: why was this draft resolution not consulted? That's the first one. Second question. You want to postpone the presidential election for two, maybe three months through a natural disaster. What guarantees do we have that it would be better with regard to the outbreak of Coronavirus? And the third question. I will quote here the opinion of a person from your political background. The state of the natural disaster, such as the state you are calling for, has been introduced in Hungary. And here I quote: "A state of emergency or state of emergency must serve governments in the fight against the virus, not in strengthening power over citizens. The use of pandemics to build a lasting state of emergency is politically dangerous and morally unacceptable. This is what Donald Tusk said, describing the state of the natural disaster in Hungary. How are you gonna deal with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u100	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u101	Mr Senator, there was no proposal to consult the budget committee before the Senate meeting, and therefore it was not consulted. Is it gonna be better in three months? I have no idea. Perhaps so, perhaps not. But let me remind you that the extension of the natural disaster will then be decided by the Sejm. And he will then assess the situation and decide whether to prolong the natural disaster or not to prolong the natural disaster. As for the opinion on the state of the natural disaster in Hungary, which you support... I am very pleased that you agree with Donald Tusk's opinion. I agree with Donald Tusk's opinion, too. I believe that there is a risk that the state of the natural disaster can be used by political forces to strengthen it. This is a risk, but we look at the current situation in Poland from the perspective of human needs and we believe that the state of the natural disaster will better serve to solve the problems facing millions of Poles today, and the threats facing these Poles than the current legal situation. And that's why we're asking for a natural disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u102	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you a question? Please, but briefly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u103	Of course. Well, Mrs. Marshal, the questions were completely different, and the answers were completely different. I asked, as far as the Legislative Commission is concerned, about this proposal, which the Senator did not say in the report; it was precisely these calculations. I asked you why this project didn't stay. consulted and why the committee and the state as senators of the applicant did not apply for such calculations, not for this request of Senator Bierecki, who actually was now... So I asked why there was no consultation and why there were no calculations. And as for Mr. Donald Tusk's opinion, I was talking about it in such a context that your political environment is progressing, well... Mr. Senator, question. ...to be more of a politician here. If we can criticize in Hungary or somewhere... Question, Mr. Senator! Yeah, but I'm asking the question. Question. As far as Hungary is concerned, the state is particularly critical of the introduction of the natural disaster, and with us they want to introduce it. Why do you simply view the state of the natural disaster as a political weapon and only politically refer to it? Thank you. We don't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u104	Thank you. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u105	Mr. Senator, I hear the charges that I'm repeating the same arguments as the broken record, but the same questions come to me. If you keep saying that only the political aspect is taken into account when talking about the necessity or appropriateness of introducing a natural disaster, I will keep saying that we have given six arguments for introducing a natural disaster, and one of these 6 arguments is political, the rest is substantive. If you require us to use calculations, analyses in the draft resolution, in the appeal to the Prime Minister... Well, I guess that's not the legal act we're talking about. This is not the role of the Senate. It's not our job. The appeal is to go to the Prime Minister's desk and the Prime Minister is to address him. We are waiting for the Prime Minister's opinion and for such calculations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u106	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the previous series related to financial issues, this is a very important issue. It would appear from the words of the rapporteur that the introduction of the natural disaster would save Poland. As we've heard from the other mouths, there could be a loss to the budget of 12%. GDP. And now there's a word against a word. Mr. Senator, please, one minute... 'Cause there's a lot more asking questions. You're welcome. Question! Okay, okay. The question is very simple. Where are the words "authoritet" and "expert" in the constitution and laws? I gave you 2 legal provisions from the Compensation Act, which show that it will be easier to obtain compensation, because in administrative, short and effective mode, and, most importantly, in possible civil, judicial procedures, you will not have to pay the entry, that is, it will be done without cost. So don't refer to the experts, just give me, from the text of this bill, the opposite arguments. It's a short ball.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u108	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u109	Mr. Senator, I gave you an article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Constitution, which states that an emergency state must be introduced in Poland in There's a word against a word. There are limitations, you talk about other things. Let the experts judge who's more right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Borusewicz, with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u111	I'd like to make a formal motion. Request to vote on Senator Bierecki's motion. I mean... It's about modifying a little of what your marshal said. Questions multiply, they multiply. There's a formal conclusion, and I suggest we vote him out. If the vote is positive, we will need to take a break so that the Committee on Budget and Finance can gather and implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u112	Thank you very much. Not all senators were in the O.R. here... When Senator Bierecki submitted a formal application, there were only two more people to the questions, so I informed the senators that after the end of the series of questions this request would be considered. Unfortunately, it didn't happen because the senators still follow the questions, and that's why I think it's a formal conclusion from Senator Borusewicz. Is anyone against it? If not, I find that we are voting on the formal motion of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, who... What's it about? That's what I want to explain. An application pursuant to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council by means of a communication form conforming to the model in Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 48 (1) (a) Is anyone against it? No, no. He was against it. Mrs. Marshal... It's against... I have a question of a formal nature... Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u113	Shouldn't such a proposal be voted on after a debate, from a formal point of view? Is it like...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u114	From a formal point of view, it should be voted immediately. That's why these two people who actually... Perhaps he would have been voted right away. Well, this is where the time extends. Formally, it should be voted immediately. In view of the fact that Senator Leszek Czarnobaj has submitted... Miss Marshal, I object. Objection?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u115	Yes, I object, after listening to the Senator's argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u116	The senator objected. I'm calling a vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of the formal motion of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and the referral of the draft resolution to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance? Please raise your hand and press the button. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that the opening of the vote in the Webex system results in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that 2 buttons need to be pressed: after the vote has been cast in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 42 senators voted in favour, 49 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 12]] The request did not obtain the required majority. Mrs. Marshal... Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u117	I'm on a formal issue. Is the query list closed or open? It's open. I'm the one filing the motion to close the questioning list.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u118	Then I will read who else is on this list: Senator Mieczysław Golba, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Krzysztof Mróz. Would any of your senators like to join the list? No. Is there an objection? There isn't? Well, shall we close? So I'm closing the list. I don't hear any objections. I'm closing the list of people asking questions. Please ask Senator Mieczysław Golba's question. Mrs. Marshal, there was an objection. There's an objection. Then we vote. We'll see. But we didn't see any objection. Did anyone object? Who objected? Senator Alexander Swed, Room 217. Senator Aleksander Swed in Room 207 objected. In view of the opposition of Senator Alexander Schwed, I am voting on Senator Marek Borowski's request to close the list of persons who have submitted questions. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favor of closing the list? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted, 51 senators voted to close the list, 39 against, 1 senator abstained. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the list of persons requesting questions has been closed. Senator Mieczysław Golba's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, listening to the answers of the rapporteur, Senator Vistula... Well, he just didn't convince me to vote in favour of this draft resolution calling on the government to bring about an immediate disaster across the country. That's why my questions... It's a pity, too, Mrs. Marshal, that we didn't, as if, until the end of this round of questions, so that practically any of the senators, who wants, can comment. Some new standards. I find Mr. Borowski's motion inappropriate. Mr. Senator, question. One minute. I'll have three questions. Since we don't have those calculations today, Senator Bierecki's motion has been rejected... They're the most important things. First of all, you have to stand by to pay 500+ to pay your 13th pension. And when we introduce the state of the natural disaster, they will be gigantic compensation paid by the Polish state to foreign corporations and foreign companies. We can practically ruin the budget. And my question to the rapporteur. Was there any foreign representative involved in the preparation of this draft resolution? And if not, then second question Did you meet with any of the foreign representatives in preparation for this draft resolution? Did anyone from this group who submitted this draft resolution take part in a meeting with such representatives? Is this about, first of all, or is it about paying huge compensations to foreign companies to, first of all, ruin the budget? Because the Polish government helps Polish companies: micro, small, medium. And that's very important. And that is why I think that what we are talking about here is prepared only to ruin the Polish state's budget and thus to strike first and foremost Poles, the Polish society. It's unbelievable that someone in this room... Senator... ...can make such a thing, prepare such a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u120	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u121	Mr. Senator, many times this problem of compensation has been raised here and we have talked about this many times. The state of the natural disaster allows to measure these compensations, gives the Polish government a tool in hand. Experts spoke on the subject, too. I don't know where you get these ideas and these thesis that it's the other way around, if the other side's arguments show otherwise. But I also remind you that it's not like the appeal party... I reassure the Senators of Law and Justice first of all, that if we adopt this resolution, we will not accept any indefinite obligations on the State. This is an appeal. ♪ until and only ♪ To the Prime Minister to introduce the state of the natural disaster and on the basis of this state he fought the epidemic in Poland. And we expect the government to respond to that. So give the government a chance to verify all these theories and finally tell us how much it will cost to fight the epidemic and what restrictions we need to introduce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u122	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, please allow me to complete my question and allow me to speak for half a minute. Here you go, quick question. But the last one. Yes. And a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u123	Yes. Mrs. Marshal, because the rapporteur, Mr. Senator, did not answer my question. I asked him clearly whether he was dating someone from foreign companies, from corporations, or if he wasn't, whether he was from this group. Does he have that kind of knowledge? Did he meet with foreign companies for the purpose of implementing this resolution? So, did someone from outside, from foreign countries, work on this resolution? Please respond to the rapporteur's senator. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u124	Mr. Senator? And you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u125	No. And before I ask any other questions, I'm going to say that Chancellor Merkel doesn't either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u126	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u127	Mrs. Marshal, I have one question. According to the Emergency Act of 18 April 2002, the state of the natural disaster may be introduced to prevent the effects of natural disasters or technical accidents, etc., etc. That's how the bill defines it. It must not be the objective of introducing a natural disaster to postpone elections. The result of such a situation is a shift in elections, but this cannot be the goal. If today the government achieves all its goals in the fight against the Cortipinus epidemic, by introducing a state of epidemic, why should the government introduce a state of natural disaster? What additional instruments would there be or what additional arguments would support the introduction of a natural disaster? All the more so because without introducing the state of the natural disaster, today the government claims that it has sufficient instruments to implement the fight against the coronavirus. And let me remind you that the previous governments, whether Mr. Donald Tusk's government or the left-wing governments, also did not want to introduce a state of natural disaster, because they said that this state of disaster does not give them any additional instruments to combat those phenomena that were then, whether they were flooded or... Mr. Senator, one minute. Question. In view of what the state of natural disaster is supposed to do, since the government says that it is not necessary to fight the coronavirus, and that we are exposed to smaller or larger ones, we can argue here. The consequences of the compensation payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u128	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer. That was the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u129	Mr. Senator, I've responded on this subject many times. I'm going to give you a memo showing you these six arguments in which I took advantage of the natural disaster. But with all responsibility I want to say that in Poland the epidemic does not expire and it is not true that we are dealing well with the epidemic. The epidemic is rising. We've been growing again in the last few days. There are over 400 infections every day, about 20 deaths, and you say we've mastered the epidemic? Well, it's not, Mr. Senator. 1 / 1 is the reproductiveity of the infected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u130	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who are in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of the senators, who have participated remotely in the meeting. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. I inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Janusz Pęcherz... He put it on the record. Oh, he put it on the record. ...Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Alexander Pociej, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. And Senator Necessary. And Senator Wojciech Necessary. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u131	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A procedated draft resolution, prepared without any consultation, in an extraordinary manner, within a few hours, results from nothing but political actions of the opposition. The rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, presented six reasons for this initiative at the meeting of the Legislative Commission within a few hours. The first 4 relating to the scale of the epidemic, the need for extraordinary solutions, the essence of these solutions, or the need to limit civil rights and freedoms in certain areas resulting from the pandemic of Coronavirus were in my view nothing more than a description of those solutions that we already have implemented under the Act on the epidemic. These are due to the decisive and responsible actions of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government, especially effective actions. On the other hand, the last two reasons are important, but not in the context presented at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and now in plenary. The first is an aspect of the financial responsibility of the State. At the committee meeting, Marek Borowski tried to prove to us that it was the state of the natural disaster that would limit the claims against the State Treasury. Meanwhile, it seems quite the opposite. It is the state of the natural disaster that will give rise to such claims. Let me quote here a section of the opinion on the Newspapers portal. The state of emergency compensation. The formal introduction of the natural disaster in the situation of the pandemic of Coronavirus would have one very serious implications for the legal situation of individuals under Polish law. The Law of 22 November 2002 on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the period of extraordinary freedom and human rights and of the citizen would apply. This would probably make the state budget much worse, but would significantly improve citizens' situation by making it easier for them to claim compensation from the State Treasury in the future. Of course, the opinion refers to citizens, but claims can also be claimed by foreign entities operating on our market. Thus, the paragraph in the draft resolution on the adverse impact on the finances of the State of failure to introduce a natural disaster seems not only unhappily but even lying. And questions arise in this regard alone. Why are you calling for a natural disaster? Why? So that our country will pay millions, if not billions of compensations, including foreign companies in particular? Is this about having drastic financial decisions taken by the Government of Law and Justice? And finally, the second reason is to postpone the presidential election. And here I agree that this is the right target for the opposition. This is not the case, for God's sake, because of love for the current president, nor is there any particular concern for the safety of the inhabitants. Only last Sunday 26 local elections and referendums took place in Poland. Somehow I didn't notice your protests. And that's because your goal is to postpone the election by six months, possibly a year, at a time when there will be major economic problems. And we know that it is not said that the epidemic will stop at that time. We see that the candidate for the Civic Coalition in all the polls has between 2 and 4%. Hence the demands. If it were 52.54% Today, you would be waving your constitution, talking about constitutional election terms and ensuring the continuity of presidential power. This shows that you treat policy instrumentally, that you treat our constitution instrumentally as well. For 5 years we have been observing the festival of populism of the opposition, which is a response to the substantive program of Law and Justice, which has changed the Polish reality, the reality of all Poles. You are proposing to introduce a state of natural disaster at a time when, while maintaining all safety standards, we try to slowly defrost the Polish economy and launch its respective branches. This is what thousands of cross-border workers are waiting for, who want to get back to work as soon as possible. I am strongly opposed to the proposed resolution and I am requesting that it be rejected. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u132	Senator Kazimierz Klein is applying for a formal application. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u133	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion. As many people have already reported their willingness to speak in the debate, and these people represent all the clubs, my proposal is this: And that's what I'm applying for. To close the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u134	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I object. Thank you very much. There's a motion to close the list, and there's an objection. Please provide me with a list of already written speakers so that I can read to all the senators before the vote, who else... She was introduced. Oh, it's already been read. I'm sorry, I wasn't in the O.R. that night. Then we shall proceed to the vote. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that starting a vote in the Webex system will result in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons after the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators... I'm sorry, I'm just... Because I didn't hear you. Can you repeat what we are voting on? That's what I was gonna say. We are voting on the formal motion by Senator Kazimierz Kleina to close the list of speakers. Did all the senators understand what we were going to vote on? I take it you do. I therefore put this proposal to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of requesting the closing of the list of debaters, as requested by Senator Kazimierz Kleina, would like to raise his hand and press the "za" button. The ghost of Marshal Niesiołowski returned to the Senate. Excuse me, but my card isn't working. Could you please... Oh, how is that possible? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Scandal. It's starting to work. Thank you very much. Whoever is against you will want to raise your hand and press the counter button. Whoever has abstained will raise his hand and press the button I hold back. The vote is over. Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 43 senators were in favour of Senator Kleina's request, 33 senators against, no senator abstained. [[Voting No 14]] The list of speakers was therefore closed. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u135	Mr. Marshal, I have a very hot request for you from the marshal not to surprise the Senate so much, because a friend almost fell over in the senate hallway. The senator was just after the injury and he had to run, too. Please keep an eye on this so that there's no accident in the senate halls so that the coalition senators don't have to run so much. I am asking you to do so and I am allergic to this issue so that later the Senate will not be exposed to the payment of multi-million-dollar damages to the Senators of the Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u136	Thank you. You gotta practice running. Thank you, Senator. I am deeply touched by your concern for the health of the senators on the other hand. I think this is a beautiful example of how, regardless of political divisions, how deep in this room and not only in this room, we can take care of each other's health. Mr. Senator, thank you so much for this, just. We have a closed list of speakers, but this list of speakers that has been accepted will be implemented. I therefore ask that you take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this series of questions primarily from the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS Senators shows a profound misunderstanding of what this resolution is all about. You are trying to tell us that this is about politics, and this is really about the health and life of Poles, you are thinking with your own categories, which you apply to our intentions. Our intentions are not political intentions. You could say that everyone thinks it's their own, but that doesn't do it. This resolution has its objectives and causes. In my opinion, Senator Wcisla was very good at explaining the reasons that led us. I'm one of them signing up for this project. That stupid smile of Senator Czerwinski, because otherwise I can't call it, just says that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Marshal, would you please cut off those rude remarks? That's all he's testifying to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please don't interrupt the senator. I ask your senator to abide by the rules in the debate... I withdraw the phrase "stupid." That smile... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I ask all senators to refrain from comments that other senators might find offensive at their address. The Polish language provides us with many possibilities of expressing even our deepest disapproval without insulting our opponents. And that is what I ask all the participants in this debate to do. I'm trading this word for the word "tricky." This mocking smile of Senator Czerwiński only proves that you are trying to give this resolution a completely different character than it has. This document deals with what needs to be done so that the health and life of Poles is better protected in the context of the extraordinary challenge that we are all faced with. Because our loved ones' lives are at risk, our personal safety is also at risk, but above all, the health of all those who are the recipients of our resolutions and the laws adopted by us by the citizens of the Republic of Poland is at risk. And that's what this resolution is dedicated to. This resolution is an appeal to do something that should have been done long ago, it calls for a legal situation that would be appropriate to the actual situation. We are dealing with a natural disaster. Our constitution is talking about a set of tools that we call a natural disaster. This set of tools was designed to prevent, control, and effectively do this to such states. Is there still time to make such a change? Of course there is, because the epidemic in Poland does not expire, because the epidemic in Poland continues, because the epidemic in Poland, moreover, is in the peak period of its development. This is mentioned not only by Polish sources, but also by foreign sources. After all, these 425 cases of • I mark: 425 • Coronavirus infection from yesterday is one of the highest daily rates of infection in the last 6 days. So six days ago there were 422 infections, and now there's 425 of them. The epidemic doesn't stop. The epidemic doesn't back down. The epidemic is in the high part of its wave. This is also shown in various charts, which we can see both in the Polish press and in the foreign press. In my opinion, a good comparative material is the material published daily and updated during the day by the New York Times. He shows what the epidemic situation is like in all countries of the world. They are divided into three categories: countries where the number of daily infections is increasing, countries where the number of daily infections is decreasing, and countries where the number of infections is at about the same level. Poland has been a member of this third category for some time, unfortunately. Poland belongs to a category of countries such as the United States, such as the United Kingdom, such as Canada, like Finland, so as not to reach any more, such as Romania, but also many other countries where this curve does not fall. This curve is still in its highest phase. Recently Director of the European Centre for Foreign Affairs The European Union's disease prevention and control has declared that Poland is one of the four countries of the European Union in which the pandemic is not weakening. Poland, alongside countries such as Romania and Sweden, not to mention Bulgaria, where the epidemic is growing... So we're dealing with a serious epidemic threat. Are we gonna do this? Whether they wanted it or not, that's the fact. The principle, of course, is that no matter what the facts are, we stand by our beliefs. But this is about facts. And about the fact that since the epidemic continues and since the daily increases are at the highest level, the danger to the health and life of Poles does not weaken. Therefore, measures should be put in place to deal with this crisis more easily. These activities should be removed from the political sphere. These actions should be without a political dimension. This is what the constitution gives us the opportunity to talk about the state of the natural disaster. The Constitution, by taking into account the state of the natural disaster, shifts policy to a later stage. It leaves time for us to focus above all on combating epidemics and other natural disasters, making policy wait and politics, in the situation we are in, should wait. That is why we propose that policy wait for policy to last for a few months, when all the country's resources should be focused on combating the epidemic. That's the point of this resolution. In addition to this resolution, of course, there are a few things to be said about. This shift to later politics doesn't mean starting the presidential race again. Doesn't mean the start would be a re-start. It just means freezing the presidential race for the time it takes to concentrate on the fight against the coronavirus. I would like to point out that this is about freezing, I would stress: freezing. This is extremely important because, in this room and in other rooms, one of the main arguments was that the applicants decided to make this proposal because of current poll posts. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about any political poll posts, this is about putting in place an appropriate solution to the situation that the Constitution is talking about. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u138	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal, formal motion. I'm asking the senator to file a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u139	Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to discipline or exchange the secretary from room 217 who refused me to make a formal request. It is a Member of the Law and Justice... Senator. Senator. This is not a formal conclusion. Turn on the mike.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u140	Forgive me, Senator, I won't be able to settle the substance of your dispute with Senator Secretary, as I understand it, because I have no knowledge about this. Unfortunately, there is no possibility of exchange of Senator Secretary in the Rules of Procedure. I can... [[Speech in the background of the recording]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u141	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, the microphone isn't on, it won't be recorded, so I'm asking the senator to go to the place where the card is inserted. I just can't do it because... Give it to me. Oh!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u142	Senator, as I understand it, says that one of the senators, who is the secretary, is preventing the senator from...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u143	Senator Ambroziewicz of Law and Justice... Ambrozik refused to put me in the floor with a formal motion and I would ask you to discipline him. Since Mr. Marshal doesn't have the instruments to replace the secretary upstairs in room 217, I'd ask you to discipline the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u144	I would like to instruct all the senators of the Secretaries that the formal applications submitted in accordance with the procedure, and every senator at any time has the opportunity to submit a formal application, and the nature of these requests is very clear in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate... If these criteria have been met by the senator and you have not been allowed by the senator of the secretary to submit an application, then this is absolutely unacceptable and we will explain them. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to speak. But I'm about to... If the senator, whose name has been mentioned here by the senator, would like to comment on the plea made by the senator, then, of course, I ask the senator to do so, because perhaps we are dealing with some misunderstanding that we can easily explain and proceed with. I sincerely trust that this is the case. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll admit, for the first time, and I've been secretary for five years now, there's been a voice like that. I only asked the senator in the middle of... The senator began to ask me this when Mr. Marshal announced whether your Marshal had announced the results of the vote on the formal motion, after which Senator Skurkiewicz spoke and I asked for a moment, literally for a moment, to have Mr.Skurkiewicz finish his statement. And then I was gonna sign in the senator. I've explained it to the senator, but the senator has risen and reacts like this. I can only regret it, because, as I say, I am a senator of the fifth year and there have never been such a situation before, there have been no complaints. There was a vote on a formal motion, and the moment the senator voted on that motion, she started asking me questions, asking me to sign in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u146	Thank you, Senator, for the explanation. You're going to address them right now, Senator. I in this voice, Senator, and please understand my intentions, I will end this exchange because I hope that you, too, will believe me that I am genuinely convinced that we are simply dealing with a misunderstanding here. After giving the floor to the senator, I will express mine and, I believe, the entire House also hope that the senators will understand this matter privately and we will not be absorbed as an House in what I believe is unnecessary and, I believe, accidental conflict. You're welcome, Senator. And I would very much like to ask that we complete this unsympathetic element.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The situation was different, but I agree with the Marshal's opinion that this is not the place for us to resolve this dispute. Nevertheless, I will demand that this dispute be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u148	Thank you very much. Senator, I'm gonna end this exchange. Please understand that I assume good will and the senator and the senator of the secretary. I assume there's been some misunderstanding here, and hopefully it will be clarified as soon as possible. We continue the debate. Please take the floor in room 182 of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We need to start with a fundamental issue. It is worth imagining how responsible authority should respond to such a dramatic phenomenon. It should focus all its efforts on combating the epidemic and preventing the risk of negative consequences for the economy and seeking agreement. It should also postpone the elections for a period where it is clear that this phenomenon has been overcome, that the epidemic has been overcome, using a typical, standard constitutional solution, which is the introduction of a natural disaster. I was one of those who hoped that the political majority, the government camp, would consider such a path. I wrote a few texts about it. together with Mr Paul Zalewski. And that's not an expression of idealism. This was the case in Polish politics, that in the face of extraordinary challenges we were able to cooperate with each other over divisions. If such a misfortune were to affect us during the rule of the Election Action Solidarity, and even during the rule of left-wing governments, against which the PiS and the Civic Platform were in opposition, the potential for cooperation and willingness to cooperate beyond divisions would be much greater, because the sense of responsibility was greater. The government camp chose another way, the way of arbitrary rule. He even rejected a serious consultation of legislation against the epidemic. Hence, we are often in such a position that we must correct the mistakes made by the government, and even the government itself is asking the Senate to correct legislative errors from time to time. It's all a result of taking the path of arbitrary rule. The electoral specialty was also pushed through using the remote mode of operation of the Sejm, which was set up to make it clear to the public that this instrument is being used only to combat the epidemic and to establish legislation against the epidemic. An electoral specialty was carried out in a way that derogates legislative standards. The Senate is in the position of an institution that has to execute a constitution. Because it is not only the Constitutional Tribunal, today without independence, it is an institution that uses the Constitution. Every authority in the state must respect the constitution. Thus, yesterday, in defence of citizens' security and constitutional regulations, the Senate rejected the electoral specialty contrary to constitutional standards and collecting a large proportion of voters' opportunity to take part in elections. The resolution on the natural disaster is a logical consequence of our position. It is an expression of responsibility for solving this problem. It's not an expression of any political game I'm about to talk about, it's a constitutional commitment. During the round of questions, there were a number of arguments that need to be addressed. First of all, Senator Bierecki and the Senators of PiS who followed him actually stated that the Polish constitutional system contains an institution that is fundamentally dangerous to us, for the Polish state, convincing in bad faith that the introduction of a natural disaster will entail some enormous compensation. Well, if we are to believe that someone has made a mistake and that the Polish constitutional system contains an institution that is fundamentally dangerous to the public finances of the state, then why didn't you propose revision of these provisions? After all, we are ready to amend the implementing law to the Constitution, the Act on the State of Natural Disaster, and all the laws, all the accompanying legislation, if you identify this danger as being so clear. But for the first time in a public debate, I hear such a voice that this whole constitutional institution is dangerous to the state because it means the giant claims of foreign corporations. If such a danger exists, the Government of Law and Justice should take, as the first initiative, the amendment of this law to ensure that such a risk does not exist. And finally, the matter of chaos. Because we are accused of the fact that the advocates of a resolution on the introduction of a natural disaster cause chaos in the state. Chaos is the result of arbitrary action. It's not the Senate that's causing the chaos. Chaos is the result of an arbitrary decision that has been made that has encountered resistance within the majority of the Sejm. Well, since the deputy prime minister's leaving the government to protest the bill, the election specialty, who's the cause of the chaos? Those who make an arbitrary decision. And today the governing camp is actually facing the risk of great chaos, because there is not even a majority in the Sejm to support its decisions, and this on a matter that should be subject to broad political cooperation. We are ready to work on electoral law in the form of work beyond divisions, in the form of consensus, and to prepare electoral law for a period when the epidemic will be absolutely overcome. But, in short, the role of the Senate in the situation of arbitrary and irresponsible decisions is to express respect for the Constitution, to choose paths that are constitutional and to behave in a manner that is responsible for the security of citizens. Hence 2 decisions The one we took yesterday, the rejection of the electoral specialty, and the one I hope we will take today, calling for a state of natural disaster, which is an expression of responsibility for the constitution and for the welfare and security of citizens. We do not know what the political majority in the Sejm will do, but we are fulfilling our obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor also in room 182 of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will sort of continue what my colleague, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, was talking about. From my point of view, the act on the state of the natural disaster does not have to be considered as ideal, as the best way to solve all the problems, but has no doubt been prepared, adopted by the Sejm and signed by the President for specific, very specific reasons. Besides, all you have to do is take a good look at it, to draw attention to what's in it, what powers it has for the government, for the prime minister in the emergency states, in these emergency states. Well, they appear there, for example. the possibility of covering entire social groups with an obligation to undergo medical examinations, quarantine, emptying or securing premises, as has been done, for example. in the case of dorms, to create places for those who will be quarantined. There are records of active participation in rescue activities, including medical ones. . dedication to the use of property or movable property, making space available to persons who are affected, as in this case, pandemic or use of the property in a specific way. It's all in the act on natural disasters. So if we are dealing with a law that specifically speaks of the tools that the government is currently using, referring to other decisions, other laws, in my opinion it makes a mistake. I would not be tempted in this case to say that the government is acting improperly or that there is no legal basis, but those legal bases which are currently being built are unfortunately at least defective. Two points are very important to me, very important. Please pay attention to how this law was constructed, and I am talking about the one about natural disasters. She was designed not to fight the coronavirus, but to fight the consequences, in this case a pandemic. I also say that today's situation is not the best time to actually run this bill, run it, decide on the state of the natural disaster. The best time for that was in early March. At the time, we were faced with a situation where the pandemic started, so of course, the launch of all these instruments would result in a higher effectiveness, a lower incidence and, as a result, a lower mortality. I would also like to point out that we debated two laws in the Senate. We call them "Coronavirus 1" and "Coronavirus" which were such legislative bubbles that they would go down in history and be the subject of separate studies. But I want to remind them and recall them precisely because they contain the various powers that are in the act on natural disasters. So if we've got the tool ready As I stress, the imperfect, but we use a much worse, ill-prepared tool, this conclusion is imposed on ourselves: this state of natural disaster, at the end of the day, must be announced. And the second point, for me, is very important and important, à by the way various claims. Well, if the law applied today is flawed, imperfect, but it is the legal basis for making very important decisions with huge financial implications for many citizens, for many economic operators, then, of course, the scale of claims can therefore be much larger, much more painful, and simply difficult to estimate from a financial point of view. Since the best time for this action has expired and unfortunately we have the likelihood of certain claims, it is worth limiting them, precisely correcting this legal basis, so that there is no doubt. I am already overlooking issues that are related to the inconsistencies of decisions made by the government, actually from wall to wall, without proper justification. E.g. We can buy a waffle on the street today, but we can't eat it; we can be on a bus squeezed at 30, 40 m in 15 or 20 people, but 2 people can't play a tennis match on the open court; we have a situation that the government bans entering the forest when there's really no danger, but it allows us to enter this forest when we have drought and you have to close these forests first of all in fear that there will be no fires. These numerous examples show, first of all, inconsistencies, incoherence, inaccuracies of actions, and second, in addition, that although the legal bases for taking specific decisions are contained in the Act on the State of the Natural Disaster, the government permanently builds them in these acts mentioned by me in an uncoherent way, according to my opinion, defective legally, inconsistent, illegible, non-transparency. And now, finally, a word about the election. It is, of course, that the act on the state of the natural disaster does not give rise to any choices. It was also rightly pointed out that it did not allow changes to be made in electoral codes. Today we are in a very difficult situation because the government has succeeded, through the actions of the parliamentary majority, in the absolute destruction of the electoral system. And today the Sejm has actually a huge problem, what to do with this phantom. There's no good way out of this situation anymore. The PKW has been deprived of specific rights. It is known that local governments have also been deprived of certain powers, and people who have always been involved in the election campaign protest, refuse to do certain tasks. On the other hand, the post office is currently under obligation, which I consider to be legally defective and which it is unable to fulfil. That is why I immediately said that this is not the most fortunate moment to introduce a state of natural disaster. Well, in fact, it would have to be restored first, this legal situation, which gave the opportunity to make choices without a legal defect, in a fair, transparent, honest, secret and non-threatening way to citizens' health. Unfortunately, this initiative today shows that we cannot wait with such demands on the Prime Minister, against the government. All of this needs to be started immediately, because our patience is already causing some kind of cost. Today we do not say that this state needs to be introduced today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but that we must finally sort out all the legal issues, take care of the legal bases of the most appropriate, most clear, prepared in 2002. And to apply these provisions correctly, so as to limit the claims to give this all a certain degree of rationality, finally, all these issues that I was talking about at the very beginning, to bring about a situation in which all cases, so far so irrationally conducted, would, in short, be ordered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we are dealing with a resolution which calls on the government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce a state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish state. We've been debating for hours. There's been a series of questions, and there's a discussion going on right now. A few questions are raised about this draft resolution. The first question that arises is: does the epidemic situation that is currently in force in Poland respond to the challenges of the moment and give public authorities, including health services, order services, health services and any other instruments necessary to take appropriate action or not? In my opinion, these measures provide such a legal basis. Nevertheless, I agree with the voices in this discussion that indicated this. This is, I believe, one of the quite debatable elements that, in the case of these solutions, a whole range of different sharpenings and changes have been introduced in those areas that did not necessarily have to be regulated on this occasion. Here I am thinking about the case of famous towers or various infrastructure installations. Well, construction procedures have been simplified here, and I believe that property rights have been violated and that the rules that have been in force so far have been affected, for example by the requirement to obtain appropriate environmental arrangements or the consent of construction services. But this is the past. In general, it must be said that everything indicates that most Poles... It's also shown by polls, social studies. Over 50% Poles, according to these studies I know, positively assess the government's and state administration's actions in the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. The second question is, are we going to have presidential elections in the middle of this pandemic? Yes, we will have elections because this is due to the calendar, from the Polish constitution, because the term of office of the President of the Republic lasts 5 years. Do these two realities converge, overlap? Yes, they apply because there's a specific election campaign going on in the shadows of the fight against the coronavirus. So far, this campaign is officially ongoing. Well, no one suspended her, she's not suspended. And the third question is, is this situation that we are currently in? I am thinking about this pandemic here. Is it someone's fault? No. This is an objective reason that caused the reality to which we were accustomed for years, in the subsequent presidential elections in Poland, to undergo a significant... just complete change. And it's hard for us to accept all of this. Today we are in such a situation that 3 days before the election silence Because on Friday from 24.00 officially, at least for now this is the legal state, will be in force in Poland voting silence We do not know what ordination these elections will take place and whether they will be held on 10 May or not. And what does the opposition propose in this situation? In my view, dialogue would be the optimal solution in such a situation, and it would be a search for appropriate legal, but also political solutions. And Parliament is a very good place for this, because here there are representatives of all forces who have obtained mandates as a result of the democratic procedures in force in Poland. This is a good place to look for solutions that would achieve the widest possible consensus. Unfortunately, for various reasons, such a situation cannot be worked out. The opposition has been saying for several weeks that it is necessary to introduce one of the emergency states. Please understand me well here, because I listened to the answer and the first statement by Senator Vistula, who is the rapporteur and representative of the applicants, but actually 50% Your speech was about the presidential election, so it's hard not to see the connection between this resolution or the draft resolution and the presidential election. The question is, is the panacea for the presidential election supposed to be an emergency? Well, it wasn't the purpose of the constitution's creators to write down the possibility of introducing an emergency state to solve the problems of electoral ordination. So a question arises about the intentions of this resolution. I am not saying that at 200% in Poland we will not have any state of emergency. Perhaps as a result of this situation, which is now and which I compared to the Gordian node, because right now we have such a complicated situation and we have an equation with so many unknowns in which these unknowns are still unknown... So it's hard to see what the solution to this equation is. Perhaps this is already a situation known from history, referred to as the Gordian node As we know, the sword had to cut through this knot perhaps it is, I do not know it, I do not have full knowledge and I do not know all aspects and circumstances. But it seems to me that if he were to be introduced in any of the emergency states... here the applicants are talking about the state of the natural disaster, and there's still a state of emergency. But for such a condition to be introduced, constitutional conditions must be met. The applicants propose to refer to the definition of state or motivation of the introduction of a natural disaster from constitutional records, because this is the most appropriate situation in which Poland is currently in Poland. But we have an epidemic that's already been declared. He does not have the negative effects that have the introduction of any of the emergency states, and gives the public administration instruments to fight the coronavirus. I'm talking about all this to make it clear how complicated this situation is in my opinion. And therefore, some questions are raised, such hypothetical ones. Because what if one of the emergency states were to be introduced? Each of these states, as I mentioned, has a slightly different procedure... I'm talking about two states, just to be clear. I am putting aside martial law completely, because it is absolutely not a situation in which we can make any such analogys, simply Poland would have to be at war with some other country so that one could consider something like this at all and think about something like this. There is absolutely no such situation. So that we can be clear about this. Those states. I'm talking about the state of the natural disaster or the state of emergency, they're being introduced into other regimes. What do they do? There's no clarity here either. Well, we know one thing: from the constitutional record, from the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6 it is clear that, after the introduction of these states, the constitution cannot be changed and the order of the Sejm, the Senate, the local elections and the office of the President So if we were to introduce this state, as the applicants want, then the election after the end of this state plus 90 days would have to take place on the basis of the current ordination. And what kind of ordination is that? This is an ordination which gives the possibility to vote in correspondence to seniors, i.e. 60+ people, the possibility to vote in correspondence to quarantined persons and disabled persons. It takes 14 days to notify the intention of such a vote, and there is a proper procedure. But this ordination also assumes that other citizens can take part in elections only through physical presence in the electoral seat. Now the question arises: what will happen if for a long time this criterion is for security reasons Incompetible? This is some kind of trap. And I'm asking the question here. I'm asking the applicants that question. Secondly, there is a legal dispute over what presidential election procedure we will be in if, for example, In the near future, it was introduced, and I'm saying it hypothetically. One of the states of emergency. Well, in that case, the election campaign is freezing. The argument is, for example. Some constitutionalists, although this is a minority view, believe that it is possible to start the electoral procedure again, i.e. registration of committees, submission of candidates, collection of signatures, etc., etc., the entire calendar. Most people describe it as a state of freezing, i.e. those persons who are registered, those who have collected signatures, are candidates, but at most such persons can resign, but there can be no new ones who will come forward in these elections. But we're not exactly clear about that. Besides, we already know from the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6 that these elections would have to take place in the current legal regime, assuming that, since an emergency situation has been introduced, there is no epidemic state, it is the famous article. 102 of this COVID law, which suspends the PKW, suspends the possibility of voting in correspondence, automatically does not apply. I'm talking about all this so we know the scripts. And there's going to be a political struggle on all of this, as I know life. Forgive me, sir, but this is going to be a political fight for a de facto election campaign. Although she would be formally suspended, candidates would show their activity in some way, for example by speaking about the current problems that are burning. In addition, there would be various interpretation disputes: what in such a situation, does this ordination really apply? Or maybe there'd be a rehearsal. agreements over divisions and attempts to develop a target model of ordination in which anyone who wishes to vote in correspondence could do so, and not just seniors and people who are quarantined? So here comes a new range of questions. I'm talking about all this because I want to make it clear that it's not that the introduction of an emergency is a panacea to the situation and solves all the problems. Occasionally, from a purely constitutional and formal point of view, it really freezes the electoral campaign and depending on how long it would last and in which regime... which state would be introduced, gives rise to the possibility of moving elections. And that is the main objective, in my opinion, of this resolution, not the actual fight against the coronavirus, because from this point of view the introduction of an emergency does not give the public administration much greater instruments to combat this pandemic. It can, however, open I stress: maybe, it doesn't have to, but it can open The compensation process, which will be a burden for the Polish taxpayer. It seems to me that in my statement I tried to present the background and circumstances concerning this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, who will connect with us remotely. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u155	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to briefly refer mainly to the text proposed by the coalition senators, although my previous speaker asked a few questions, which maybe I will also try to answer, although there is a debate and we are discussing this issue... But going back to the definition of the state of the natural disaster, such a summary definition, which is defined by the 2002 Act, I will say that it is mentioned, among others. that there is a massive occurrence of infectious diseases in humans. And this is when, according to this basic law, there is a particular threat to the security of citizens. As for the massive occurrence of infectious diseases, this is clearly defined, but I will quote here the words of Minister Łukasz Szumowski, who said yesterday that everything is still ahead of us. It is not that this pandemic is weakening, as many of my previous speakers have already said here. I think that the restrictions on civil liberties that had been introduced earlier have been introduced because the government could not meet the social needs and needs of the medical community as regards personal protective equipment. And here I must remind you again that local governments and society have taken over these tasks from the government, making such resources available to the medical community in their own right. So there's a security threat all the time. So... In medicine, nothing is ever clear. I think the Minister is also concerned that there is a possibility of a massive outbreak of infectious diseases. I hope that Senator Jackowski will satisfy my answer. And since this plenary session was abounding with various quotations, I would like to see the Senators of the PiS who are still accusing us of politics, expressing the words of the famous hierarch of the Catholic Church, Mr Kazimierz Nycz, Cardinal Kazimierz Nycz, who spoke very maturely on the last Sunday during the liturgy with the participation of the state authorities and I think that this was expected by many of us, by our society. I quote: "We encourage the dialogue between the parties to look for solutions that would not cause legal doubt and suspicion not only of violation of the constitutional order in force, but also of the principles of free and fair elections adopted in a democratic society. At this point, I did not want to go back to the first point that we had discussed earlier about the elections, but this country, my previous speakers, the PiS senators, are still coming back to this. But I would like to refer to certain authoritarian governments that, unfortunately, threaten us, and that is also the social feeling. Every power corrupts, but absolute power corrupts absolutely The words of a prominent Christian liberal, Lord Acton. This temptation is eternal and this temptation has not been resisted either by the PiS and the ruling authority. Power will always strive to grow, broaden its scope and intensity. Therefore, the barriers that political institutions place in power are in the interests of the common good, and their task is to prevent the emergence of politically and economically authoritarian governments. When such power does not face any resistance, it announces the near end of democracy, which you keep talking about, and the end of the welfare of every nation. This is the role of the buffer currently played by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. It is the only political institution in Poland at the moment, which can correct irresponsible actions of the authorities. We must remember that the nations that have achieved economic success, and yet that is what we want, are very rich by the fact that over the last 300 years they have managed to develop political and economic institutions including, eliminating monopolies and gradually introducing political and economic pluralism. They have set off a circle of success, causing countries to grow to the welfare of their citizens. That's what we're talking about. In the systems in which political pluralism has been blocked, the value of power is merely that, without any control, it brings its beneficiaries great material benefits. For the past six years, PiS has basically taken over all the political institutions of the state. The Senate of the Republic of Poland has become the last barrier to stop the authorities from acting irrationally. Democracy is not an easy system, and we all know it, but today is the best we have. Democracy is a need for constant dialogue, dialogue and discussion. This is how it was designed to be a policy tool, or a prudent concern for the common good. Democracy is a conversation, convincing for its reasons, it is also an indication of the dangers of some solutions, because when they take over all power for one political actor, it is always dangerous and can lead to the exclusion of others, leading in the long term beyond any doubt to the elimination of pluralism in politics and in the economy, and this, as the history of the authoritarian countries shows, always ends tragically. The widespread pandemic and the government's subsequent actions clearly prove that in Poland there is still such a spectacle of one actor. Because it is no different to call restrictions on human rights, personal and civil liberties, which have been applied, often by regulations of the Minister or the Council of Ministers, and thus contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Poles were forced to submit to such decisions as forced quarantine, restricting freedom of movement and gathering. The right to protest, the right to assembly has been suspended. Many sectors of the economy are paralyzed. And above all these sharpenings are severe punishments in the event of non-compliance. You can't call it ordinary measures. These are, beyond any doubt, extraordinary measures. Dear Senators, as a doctor, I am well aware of what we must face, even beyond political divisions. I know what sick people look like. I see fear, uncertainty and fear of what the next day will bring. This isn't right. Poles should feel safe and they should know that the government is taking all possible actions, and I would like to support this government in order to protect the welfare of Poles' patients, not only in terms of health but also in terms of the economy, and above all, that it is doing so legally, without embezzling their freedoms and rights illegally. And the only legal basis for most of the bans, orders and restrictions imposed by the government may be provided by the Act of 18 April 2002 on the state of the natural disaster. Therefore, I request that the Senate adopt a uniform draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce the state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Michael Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u157	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! If you don't mind... I don't want to talk about the election, but I'm going to say a few sentences about it at the end. For me, it is essential that the state of the natural disaster should be introduced, as I believe, that there is a significant reduction in civil rights. If anyone says that the act on preventing and combating infectious diseases and infections in humans is equivalent to the act on natural disasters... I want to read the titles of several chapters now. Chapter 2 - Health and Epidemiology Research. The next chapter is "Infections related to the provision of health services and other activities..." etc., the title of the next chapter is "Protections," the next "Other measures to prevent infections and infectious diseases," the next "Protection in case of suspicion or diagnosis of infection or infectious disease..." etc. I have read this to show you that this law concerns the fight against infectious diseases, health care activities, and the financing of these activities. It's a law on the control of infectious diseases, but by health care. On the basis of this, significant restrictions on civil rights have been introduced, e.g. in the right to move or the ban on assembly? After all, these are basic civil rights, which the Constitution speaks of. In general provisions, in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) here is the provision of compliance with the orders and prohibitions of the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection, that is all. That's it. On this basis, the basic rights of each of us are restricted by regulations. It is not that I believe that the restrictions introduced make no sense and have no justification, but it is about their legal basis. If the legal basis is weak and we agree to it, it is a dangerous precedent. And the constitution in the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 says that restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act and only if they are necessary for the protection of safety, health, etc. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 refers directly to one of the emergency states that the Constitution provides for, i.e. that's the state of the natural disaster. And this article says that under the law defining the scope of restrictions on freedom and human rights and the citizen in a natural disaster, freedom of business, personal freedom, freedom of movement in Poland can be reduced. Among other things. And this constitutional provision is implemented in the Natural Disaster Act, which introduces a catalogue of restrictions concerning the suspension of economic activity, the obligation to be quarantined, the prohibition or the holding of mass events, the order or the prohibition of certain modes of movement, and the use of troops. After all, ladies and gentlemen, this is all we have right now through poorly-enforced decisions or regulations... What's going on here? Why isn't the government introducing a natural disaster bill? And the question of these huge claims. The issue of claims. I understand why this issue is being raised. But not because it would cost a lot of money. It wouldn't cost more than what the government now, through successive laws, so-called. Shields, do we have to wear them? In the event of an emergency, compensation for property losses, but not lost benefits, shall be provided. These claims, due to the loss of benefits, would be very large, but this law provides for compensation for property losses. And why doesn't the government want to bring it in? Is it because it would be a huge cost, greater than the cost of those shields? No. The government doesn't want to bring it in because it wants to show And he's saying it straight. We're giving you the money. It's not that you're entitled to the property loss money that you're bearing because we've put in place some or other restrictions. No. We're giving you. That's it. That's the approach. And finally, the presidential election. I'm saying, 'cause for me, it's not the most important thing. The most important thing, I repeat, is to regulate the restriction of civil rights and freedoms, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitution. After all, this is a situation that can be a dangerous precedent. Of course, the election. But I hear you want to bring in a natural disaster because you're gonna lose the presidential election. Okay, but here's what I'm gonna say: and you don't want to bring this state of disaster because you think you're just gonna win the presidential election right now. Yes, sir? It's just that there's a question of that kind of decision. This state of natural disaster should have been introduced a long time ago. And our mistake was that we agreed to these increments in the COVID laws, concerning civil rights, as well as elections. We should not vote in such a situation if the government introduces rules that are difficult to accept in the laws on economic support. I have some objections about this resolution. I will vote for her, but I have reservations about the fact that, after the presidential election, if you win these presidential elections, you can, on the basis of this resolution, introduce a state not the one we are talking about, but a state of emergency, because in such a situation as is, in a situation of sharp division and political conflict... If you do this election, some citizens will not accept this election, they will not accept it. I'm afraid that's when a disaster can be introduced, not a natural disaster, but a state of emergency. I hope I'm wrong. That's what my objections are about, which I'm talking about in a clear way. I repeat: the state of the natural disaster should be introduced not to postpone elections, but to have a strong political, constitutional and legal basis for such restrictions on civil rights and freedoms as have now been introduced and which we must accept.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by correcting, because the truth should first of all flow from this House. It is not true that there are no legal tools in the law on preventing and combating infectious diseases in humans, which he mentioned here as the missing marshal. I'll give you the exact legal address, that's art. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, and I will mention only some of them: temporary limitation of certain modes of movement; temporary limitation of the functioning of certain institutions or establishments; prohibition of the organisation of spectacles and other gatherings of the population. And art. 46b: temporary limitation of certain business activities; obligation to be quarantined; order for certain means of movement. We all know it, we all feel it now. So these tools are. And after that digression, maybe we should start over. Well, we're really talking about three laws here. The first is the Act on the State of Natural Disaster... I'll give the date of their adoption, because it's an important issue. This law was passed in 2002, the one about the state of the natural disaster that you are calling for. The second is the law on equalisation of property take-offs resulting from restrictions on the state of emergency freedom and human rights and the citizen I'll call it compensation in a nutshell. She is also from 2002, but later in the month. She was in charge at the time. I don't know if you know; well, it doesn't matter much, although part of it does. The SLD-PSL coalition. She introduced these laws, she passed them, so that was the beginning of V. term of office That the constitution required it, it was just like implementing laws to the constitution. Then, among other things. the second degree of administrative justice, etc. has been adopted. And the third law, which is currently being used, namely the Act on the Prevention and Control of Impaired Diseases in Human Beings, which dates back to 2008. And now the question is: why did the coalition, already different, the PO-PSL passed the bill in 2008? Well, if the act on natural disaster was enough, then the latter was unnecessary, because there was an earlier law, probably from 2003, about, generally speaking, the fight against infectious diseases. Why has this law been passed, since it was a very general one, about combating natural disasters? Well, this case denies half your argument, ladies and gentlemen. Your predecessors, perhaps in part, also you who are in the Seym or in the Senate have passed a law that you think is unnecessary. That's not enough, 'cause I heard it here. Even though I've tried to fight it. She's like a second-class law because, under the Act on Natural Disaster, it's possible to put in place sharpenings, and under the Act on infectious diseases, it's no longer possible. Well, it's clear that there's no such division of laws in the Constitution, they all have the same... maybe not as important as legal status, of course all of those that apply, that's clear. So here's the question: what exactly are you talking about? You and your predecessors have passed a tool bill. That's what I'd call her. In the context of issues related to health protection, infectious diseases and epidemics, it is actually in this law that the epidemic risk is described. Or was it just that she was needed? Because it is very detailed in this respect, and the act on the state of the natural disaster is, first, short, and secondly, it deals with so many different types of natural disasters, starting with letting go of a dam on some water reservoir, through drought, locust attack, animal disease... Well, you can't put specific provisions on such different issues in a single legal act. So, since this bill was needed, let's use it, because it gives more tools, more specialized tools, and it's aimed at the very state it's about. Let me remind you that we did not approve it, it was adopted in 2008. Yeah, well, there's a lot of hearing, too. and about this in the next point. That the adoption of this law was about In fact, in order not to apply the act on natural disaster for a simple reason: not to pay precisely those compensations which are a natural consequence... may not be so much a passing as the beginning of the natural disaster. That's what this bill of compensation is talking about. If we introduce a natural disaster, we automatically fall into the compensation bill's regime. And perhaps your predecessors And some of you. In 2008, the law on infectious diseases was passed so as not to fall into the regime of that law so as not to release the country with its bags. Legislative issues that I really learned nothing about here from the applicant's representative... Do we have to have both states, the state of the natural disaster and the epidemiology under the Law on Infections, or do any of these states have to be closed, so to speak? Is it not enough that the Act on the State of the Disaster includes tools that should be activated, but are not, because only the Act on Infections is used, about epidemics? I didn't know that either. I only learned one thing: that one law is more important and the other is less important. That's all I found out. And that is the legislative issue. The second very important point is the financial issue. Like I said, maybe the reason for the epidemic and infection laws was just not to pay compensation. This is Marshal Borusewicz trying to explain that using this special act we will pay less. But the experts. You continue to refer to experts and authorities, which, in fact, are not mentioned in the Constitution. They say something else, that is. I'm afraid you can let the country go with the bags, bankrupt him. Is that what this is about? The question is very simple: why did your predecessors never have this state of natural disaster, but actually only this one came into the picture Didn't they use it? And there were droughts, tornadoes, floods. Why didn't you use it? Perhaps that's why, so as not to fall under the rigour of this bill. And the rigors of this law are very simple: instead of long civil processes, which take years, a fast administrative path, i.e. 3 months to decide, a month to pay. That's the first line. And two. If it's someone who's trying for it In general, an entrepreneur, also a foreign entrepreneur, thinks that he has received too little, that he may be on a civil court path. But then he has a bonus: he doesn't have to pay the cost of the trial. Is that what this is about? And the last... What else is interesting? Because maybe I'm wrong, and the chairman of the Bierecki committee isn't. Then why did you refuse to consult the government? At the budget committee meeting, you could have asked someone from the Ministry of Finance to tell us exactly what happened. It was even possible to keep this committee meeting secret. What is the threat of this law? Why did you turn it down? Why don't you want to know anything else? Autorites and expertise have helped you? Show these expertises and authorities, these calculations, because it's already counted. And then there's the third, third range of issues, third level: elections, presidential elections. Well, it happened unhappily, twice unhappily, that the pandemic began, or actually in Poland, when the electoral calendar was already scheduled. In every way we, the United Right, are trying to cut through this Gordian node, to get out of this state: on the one hand, there is a reality, or an existing pandemic, on the other hand there is a calendar that runs because time cannot stop. And a simple question: how can we reconcile, as I said, 2 constitutional values, namely the life and health of the citizen on the one hand, and on the other hand democracy, i.e. elections, to enable citizens to choose the head of state? The question is, where is the contact going to be? It's very difficult. Should he be in the middle, or are we moving him, and if so, which way? I am in favour of what the government does: life and health are the most important things, even if it is necessary to shift this contact slightly to the detriment of democracy. As I say, in the case of the delivery of voting cards, it is visible. But let's leave the previous bill. You guys finally... Because yesterday you said what you didn't want, which is the choices we're proposing, and today you're saying what you want. Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes. Yeah, I'm finishing my thought. What are you saying today? You say you don't know what you want. The rapporteur made it clear that we are not interested in this. We're just gonna get you into a dark tunnel, and then go. In four months' time, it is not known for how much 8 months, in 10 months' time we will return to the topic. Well, I have a question: how are we going to do this, since there are no transitional provisions in the Natural Disaster Act that tell us what happens to the elections when the state of pandemic or disaster was announced when the election process was already underway, the electoral calendar was launched? And that's a very simple question. Do we start the calendar from the beginning, or does the calendar remain and continue the electoral process with those candidates who are registered? Please note that even in this room, two different answers came out of your mouth. I don't blame you, I don't blame you because there's no legal basis. You want to bring us into the minefield when it comes to electoral issues. I'm not talking about what wouldn't be, God forbid... Mr. Senator, it's been 11 minutes. Yes? I'll give you 12 of them. Whatever it is, God forbid if we didn't have a head of state after August 6. It's total chaos. And last sentence, Mr. Marshal. The question is, which one is the most appropriate, in my opinion... I mean not the right one, but the most desirable one... And last sentence, Mr. Marshal. The question is which target is the most appropriate... I mean, not the most appropriate one, but the most desired one by you. Is it the political one when it comes to elections or the financial one? I'm getting more and more inclined to say it's about the financial goal. Until recently... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sir... ...a calm Polish cow was milking. VAT, VAT hole, VAT carousels for several tens of billion zlotys... Then maybe you want to milk it differently. You want me to grab another one? Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask... I've stopped and thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u160	But, Senator, you've not only abused the time that the rules give you, but you've also done something that you've done. As I also appealed to the senators on the other side We shouldn't have done it, which means you insulted your opponents. And I would very much ask that no one in this other room insult us to accept the assumption I know it's hard to be wrong and we may disagree, but we assume that both Senator Czerwiński and Senator Wszystko, that I'm going to look at the senators sitting here, maybe they're together. disagree, but they also care about the welfare of Poland. Even in a very violent dispute, let us not assume that someone does not care about the welfare of Poland, because then we will not be able to simply with each other. normal talk. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. History will settle us. Okay, Mr. Senator... Those are the facts. Mr. Senator, that's all I meant. Just as I'm gonna defend you not to insult you, I'd ask you not to insult anyone either. I'm done. I give the floor to Senator Alexander August Pociej. August...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u161	Mr. Marshal, I use my first name in my life, so that Alexander. But it wasn't ironic, Mr. Senator, but because... But that middle name is respectable very much. I must refer to this last sentence, to which you also referred to the marshal, about milking, only one sentence. No other group, only what you represent, has been named not good, but a milk change. And remember that when you attack so directly and so falsely. I must refer to your thesis. You said we, the United Right, are about to get out of this situation. You are probably abstracting from the situation in the Sejm, where the United Right has already spoken or is about to speak out, and then we will be able to confront it, because the United Right doesn't exist to a certain extent anymore. So let's see if you want to get out of this as one group, or if you're in your ranks with people who figured out where you're going with our country. You have used a senator's word, which, in all our discussions, has been a key word for five years: we want to move democracy a little bit. For almost five years every month, every Senate meeting, you've been moving democracy a little bit. And so the Law and Justice managed to shift this democracy a little bit, that in all the world's rankings of trust, the power of the state, that's why we are moving a little democracy on our heads, on our necks. What will be the consequence of that, you will see the senator, unfortunately, I'm afraid, in the near future, when all these shifts will accumulate after five years. Before these statements were made by the senator, I wanted to start where you ended up with the senator, Marshal Borusewicz. I would like to tell you that for this reason I am not yet sure how I will vote, because I am also afraid that this can be used in a different way than the intended purpose of what is foreseen in the Constitution. And I would like to draw the senator's attention to a series of events, because the senator is reversing this sequence of events. The senator says, "Well, we've passed a bill. And you, ladies and gentlemen, are now calling for the second. And which one will be more important? That's what ignoring a hierarchy is all about. And you've said it several times. Which one? This one's better. This one's worse. And why should this one be? Why that one? Well, there's no doubt that you should have talked to the opposition two months ago or a month and a half ago, sat down and said, "Listen, we have some intelligence." This information was made available to the public. That pandemic is dangerous. Why didn't anybody from the government react then? Because really, in a model way, you'd have to act right then and start with what's a base, that's a constitution. What would cause this? Mr. Senator has been abstracting since the last month and a half, when this state, which, of course, is independent of the state... I know you didn't bring this and you're not responsible. But did the senator speak then and say, "Well, that's not right, we have a campaign, we're in the middle of a campaign. You can't do that so 9 or 10 candidates can't run a campaign, and only one can run a campaign. As the senator says today, gentlemen, the politicians of law and justice are trying to change that... You say this: we need to change and we can change this date. Well, it didn't work out for the 10th, although you said that, gentlemen, for a month and a half, that maybe the 10th will be all right. No one at your camp is saying that this is even possible for the tenth. And you say, "Oh, this could be the 17th or the 23rd." If the senator had listened to all those constitutionalists who were here... They emphasized that this is not one date that is abstracted, independent. No, everyone emphasized that this is the whole process. And if you move the last day, then you have to reset everything, because then no constitutional norms are preserved in the case of the first day, the initiating day. The Constitution is not a rubber tape. And it's not like if anything hurts, we'll move either left here or right here. It's been a fundamental argument for four and a half years. And I'm going back to your statement because the government, like you said... You said, "Let's move democracy." You said it here, from that platform. And that's what I'm talking about. We had repeated many times yesterday. And this is very important for today's debate. We're coming out of the pandemic. Well, the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health provides. With all due respect, sir, if you look at the ministry's actions, you're gonna have to admit that trying to find out what's going on with this pandemic looks like a joke when the Soviet bomb squad... There was a joke. The Soviet bomb squad is looking for a mine, and it's waving its leg, and it's checking it out. Is it going to explode before him or not? The masks were bad, then they are mandatory. We're going into the woods. After a week, we leave the woods. We were assured that there would be no choices for two years, no choices. Yesterday we heard from the Deputy Minister of Health that no choices could be made for two years, at least in their normal form. And now I assure you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm a little distracted. Well, that's the assurance. We already know today that if you'd like to... I'm sorry, if the government wants to make an election, it'll be a hybrid election. Partly it will be a correspondence vote, but already a name-calling vote in the sense that with a receipt certificate and reserved for seniors, for disabled people This will be a normal vote for the rest of the population. How are we supposed to believe such inconsistent signals about what's going on with this pandemic? At one point, the minister says for two years. I'm going back to that. I'm sure we won't be able to vote in a normal system, and just a moment later, when asked if the next moves that will allow the economy to freeze will be in a week or two, he says, "I don't know." But the fact that there's going to be another wave of pandemics in the fall is certain. Thank you... Well, it's not a credible argument, it's not a reliable partner to talk to. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u162	Thank you, Senator. I'm so sorry if I'm out of time. No, it was ten minutes. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll say one sentence to correct... Mr. Senator... ...because my statement was misquoted. What kind of statement? Nothing's been quoted because you haven't been mentioned. And the fact that Senator Comfort was looking at you can't be an excuse for you to come in... ...Mikrophone. ...in polemics. This isn't about polemics, Mr. Marshal, really. No... Just one thing... Mr. Senator, thank you very much. I understand that's how you treat the PS senators... I won't let you speak. ...or the senators from the other side. Thank you very much for your equal treatment. Don't exaggerate, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a minimum of logic. What situation are we in today? Can elections be held in May? No, this election can't be held. On 10 May the elections cannot be held, we all know that. Marshal Witek asks the Constitutional Court an absurd question as to whether she can announce the election on 17 or 23 May. Well, that's ridiculous, isn't it? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Tribunal is not to answer Marshal Witek... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But wait a minute. It's not to answer Marshal Witek's question whether she can make another resolution. Well, how's he gonna respond? Well, I'm sure he'll answer. No discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, you have created a Constitutional Court, which is not the Court, but the Court's impostor, and acts on request. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And now... No, Mr. Judge Zaradkiewicz... Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Gentlemen, please don't argue. It's a way to determine everything. The Court will answer any question within 5 minutes. Don't you see that? But to explain why it's impossible, I'll tell you that there's a gentleman who turns 35 on the 12th of May. He said if he knew the election would be postponed to May 17, he'd run for president. Well, he's turning 35 on May 12, which means he's entitled to it. If such an election was announced in January, he would have the right to take off. Unfortunately, there's no chance of that now. The entire calendar must be kept here, and of course this calendar cannot be preserved. Now there's a second reason why, of course, there won't be any elections. Either this envelope bill is accepted or it's rejected. If it is rejected, I ask: in what mode will these elections be held? According to this law, which is currently in force? After all, the State Election Commission is unable to organise them. We'll see about that. No, she can't organize them because she's been disbarred by your laws. And if this bill stays... Acknowledged. ...accepted, you will not be able to organize the elections for the reasons I have spoken here and which I have shown you, by sight. You just can't count those votes on a reasonable date. That's just how you built this bill. And in such a situation, we need to think about how to get out of this. There's an idea to change the constitution. A far-reaching idea to change the constitution. When? At what point? May 10th is in a minute. There is a solution: the state of the natural disaster. Don't be stubborn, some complete donkey, saying, "We're not gonna bring this state in." With a new hand? No, no new hand, no new hand. Because it's clear in the Constitution that the terms are moving, and that's it, everything. Candidates stay, everything stays, only deadlines shift. And if this state of natural disaster were just some sort of trick, i.e. If nothing were to happen in Poland, and someone suddenly thought that it was necessary to introduce a state of natural disaster in order to move the elections, you would be right that it was absurd. Well, what kind of politics is this? But there are serious reasons for that. Now it is said here: After all, there is an epidemic law, then why a state of disaster? Well, you're not gonna move the epidemic bill, definitely. But as far as the epidemic law is concerned, you are referring here to the fact that it was still passed for old governments, the Civic Platform and the PSL, in 2008. I looked into it. What was adopted in 2008 has nothing to do with what is now. Because the amendments you made on 2 March have expanded the catalogue of civil rights restrictions in this law. There were very modest restrictions in this original law. You've expanded it a lot. Why? Because you were avoiding the natural disaster. And it is in the Act on the State of the Disaster that all the powers you have transferred to the Epidemiology Act that are. And the difference between the two laws is that... Mr. Senator Czerwiński said: what are two kinds of laws, one better, the other worse? And that's how it is. Of course. Since the Constitution states that restrictions on civil rights must not be introduced by regulations, they must be in the law, they must be clearly written. Not as a delegation. It's clearly written. And if it's an emergency, yes, it's a regulation. And that's the difference. And that's why all those regulations that were adopted first by the Minister of Health It's already illegal because the Minister didn't have the authority to do it at all, but possibly the Council of Ministers. And then by the Council of Ministers... These are regulations restricting civil rights. At the moment, I am not talking about their right or wrongness, so that the matter is clear, but about the fact that they are unlawful because they are based on a statutory delegation and not on the Emergency Act. If they were based on the Natural Disaster Act, everything would be fine. This is the first case. You asked, which one is it? I'll say, for example. prohibition of economic activity. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because the Epidemiology Act referred to the temporary limitation of certain activities there, etc. There was no time limit here, because no time limit was given here, no partial, but there was simply a ban. There is a right to such a ban in the Natural Disaster Act. You didn't even prescribe my apologies for saying... You didn't even sign it into the epidemic bill, although then you could do anything, because then everything was going through. This, of course, causes that even on this bill it was not based, and it was certainly not based on the constitution. Now, about the cost... Well, ladies and gentlemen, how illogical what you're saying here is. I mean, yeah, you could say. Requisition a truck in the event of a natural disaster not called a natural disaster and then you pay nothing to the owner, but if you requisition it under the Act on the State of Natural Disaster, then you have to pay. That's absurd. You have to pay either way, in both cases. The difference is only that, it's already been mentioned here... Senator Czerwiński asked about the authority that might have spoken... Well, I don't know who the authority is, but for me, I'm sure the authority is Prof. Łętowska, the constitutionalist who apologized for the colloquial expression of teeth on it. She said something about it. And she clearly said that the claim that a natural disaster could not be introduced, because the state would go bankrupt, called bluffs, scams, interesting manipulations to disgust the natural disaster. And when she explained that so to say, more broadly, she said: "This is a classic solution: the emergency states require a derogation from the normal principle of full compensation for damages. Because emergency states are such a state state of higher necessity, inevitably forcing us to restrict freedom and rights. And she continued to say that it's just about property losses, just because someone's requisitioning an apartment, requisitioning a car, but in no way about lost business profits, etc. I wouldn't want to be a bad prophet. I really wouldn't want to be a bad prophet. And I don't wish for Poland. And that the act on the state of the natural disaster doesn't talk about the epidemic, here's one of the senators... Well, he's clearly talking about infectious diseases, about the spread of infectious diseases as one of the types of natural disaster. But she's not as broad as the epidemic bill about what needs to be done. She's pretty narrow on these issues. He talks, for example. quarantine, protective vaccinations. And the epidemic bill, as I understand it, was a development. There's a whole bunch of information about how doctors are supposed to proceed, nurses. There's a lot of stuff in there. Whoever reads this is... And at the same time, they could apply. No, no, because if the Natural Disaster Act had entered into force, only regulations would have changed and certain things could have been abandoned, and others would not, etc. Finally, it was also said here that once the state of the natural disaster is introduced, citizens may feel threatened, because, I don't know, they will be able to apply some far-reaching restrictions to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the ones that apply today are far-reaching. I can't imagine the government willing to risk that kind of thing. And the constitution is clear: only those that are necessary are used. But there are others that, of course, have no reason to use. So, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen... Oh, one more thing. Senator Jackowski said that during the emergency and 90 days after the emergency, no changes can be made to the ordination. I guess he didn't read it a bit. That mouth. 6 says that no elections can be organised and no ordination can be changed, but only during the duration of the emergency, in the next 90 days you can. And, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion and conclusion, I would say that if the government, if the PiS wanted to settle this matter somehow, so that the Polish state would come out of this in order not to lead to a constitutional crisis, it would have sat down with this opposition and said: well, we are introducing a state of natural disaster and, please, we sit down, we are developing an electoral ordination which we will then adopt, as it will be possible, and which will include correspondence choices for those who want, and normal choices, so to speak, at the urns and in the polls... Thank you, Senator... ...and all this will come into force after the end of this period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u164	Thank you, Senator. Please take... Marcin Bosacki. Who? Marcin Bosacki. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki... Room 217. ...from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! We should answer three questions when discussing this draft resolution: what epidemic state we are in, what state the Polish economy is in and what state we are in. Yes, there is also a Polish political life? With regard to the first two questions, namely the state of the epidemic and the economy, and the government's prevention of the disease of Coronavirus and the major economic crisis since 1989, we know that we are in chaos. We know that as far as the fight against the coronavirus is concerned, Minister Szumowski himself admitted not more than this morning that the epidemic peak is still ahead of us. The PiS senators here, in this room, or actually the halls, have repeatedly said that why the state of the natural disaster, since the government is pursuing all its objectives in the fight against the epidemic. Excuse me, what are his goals when Minister Szumowski himself admits to failure? Since only yesterday, as information from the first football league came from the Extraclasse, that several hundred footballers were tested and dozens of them are asymptomatic virus carriers, because the absolute majority of those who carry this virus have no symptoms, but infect others? What goals does he pursue, since yesterday we had the biggest 24-hour disease situation, 425 people, and if in a few minutes in the evening message, the data are repeated in the morning, then we will again have more than 400 people infected? We're not in the end phase or even in the coming epidemic. We are, as Minister Szumowski says, before the worst of her phases. And that's the first reason. Because the Senators of PiS are asking what the objectives of this proposed natural disaster state are. It is precisely the goal of a better, more effective fight against the epidemic, because for now what the government is proposing is a chaotic strategy, which is either that we close everyone up like the poorest countries. It doesn't matter if you're healthy or sick for many weeks in fact at home and then you have a relatively low level of infection, or you're relaxing a little bit and you have a high level of infection because you don't test and invest in health care. That's why the economies are closing down, that's what serious countries are doing, serious countries that are fighting this epidemic, like Germany, South Korea, Denmark and Oceania, New Zealand, which are already definitely in the emerging epidemic phase, to test as much as possible, watch where the epidemic is, and at that time prepare health care. We didn't do it. Health care is worse than it was 2 months ago when the epidemic in Poland started. The second objective of introducing a natural disaster is to legalise, in line with the Constitution, restrictions on civil rights. You do it through the side door, at the border or by breaking the law and the constitution, while it is absolutely clear that according to the basic law, with the highest law of the Republic, it can only be done in one way, i.e. the state of the natural disaster. I'll remind you of the art. 233 of the Constitution, which makes it clear that a law defining the scope of restrictions on freedom and human rights and of the citizen in a natural disaster may restrict freedom and rights. And so on. freedom of movement and residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland It is certainly limited; e.g. right of ownership It's certainly limited because you can't use property when business is closed from the top. And so on and so on and so on and so forth... According to the Constitution, this allows the state of the natural disaster, not the state of the epidemic. You use... many of you, especially Senator Piech, but in several other speeches it sounded, it uses an argument of the type: the whole world makes choices, and only the insane Polish opposition does not want to lead to them. Senator Piecha even said that in the United States a normal primary is being conducted. Well, these are, of course, fairy tales, resulting perhaps from the fact that the Senators of the PiS watch too much of the party TV called TVP, and they reach too little for independent and true sources of information. In the United States, the primary was cancelled or postponed in 15 states. In the 1st state in which they were carried out at the epidemic summit, recently, in Wisconsin, 52 people were infected by those who were on the electoral committees. Someone's gonna say "not much." But Wisconsin has 5 million people. In Poland it would be several hundred infections among those who are in committees, because Poland is 8 times bigger than Wisconsin. You're also saying ridiculously that what we're suggesting is a supposed vaccine for coranavirus. I'd be really careful talking about vaccines if I were you. What Mr Morawiecki's government did yesterday, which is the declaration for a European fund to invent a vaccine, which is the only effective way to fight the koravirus, which is 750,000 euros... I don't want to use too big words, but it certainly compromises... maybe not the Republic, but this government. It is almost 20 times less than the millionth Slovenia has allocated to it and almost 1 thousand times less than it has allocated to it, each of them, France or Germany, almost 1 thousand times less, because they have allocated half a billion. That is your attitude towards fighting this epidemic, that is your ambition in Europe, that is your ambition in foreign policy. I would like to conclude with two comments. First of all, let's reverse this question, i.e. Let us ask not why we want to introduce a state of natural disaster, but why you, contrary to reason, against the health and life of Poles, against the interests of Poles and Poles and against examples from all over the world. Several dozen countries have called off various kinds of elections in recent weeks It's for the election. 'Cause you know it's only under these conditions. In the absence of an election campaign, the total domination of your lying state television in the information market Your candidate has a chance to win. And that's why it's for the election. Because the tenant of Nowogrodzka wants to close the project of ending true democracy in Poland and introducing authoritarian governments under the pretext of fighting the epidemic. And I want to say one more thing, very clear. The difference between the state of the natural disaster, as we propose, and the state of emergency, which Mr Kaczyński and his acolytes are supposed to consider, is absolutely fundamental and the second state of emergency, according to Polish law, cannot be introduced. It is clear that a natural disaster must be put in place in order to prevent natural disasters. However, the conditions necessary for the introduction of a state of emergency by the President of the Republic are not met, because this condition is: in the event of a threat to the constitutional system of the State. We don't have that kind of threat. And you can't introduce this state, and I want to say it clearly in advance. I conclude with a call to Members of Parliament who in the coming hours or days will decide on the future of the Republic of Poland, voting on the Senate's veto to the absolutely scandalous, life-threatening and health-threatening Poles and breaking the constitution of the bill on correspondence voting, and perhaps they will also have the opportunity to vote on the introduction of a state of emergency. I would like to address, in particular, these younger fellow Members, from different groups, not only from the Agreement, but also from other groups, who today, as we know, are being tempted brutally, there is much to break their consciences, to bribe them politically and not only politically, to blackmail them to change their views. Look not at your business, but at the interests of the Republic of Poland. My generation, at your age, at the age of twenty, twenty or thirty-something, had the privilege of participating in the great successes of our country: regaining independence in 1989, entering NATO, entering the European Union, in an unprecedented, supported by this entry into the European Union, but based on the hard work of Poles and Poles, economic growth for 25 years. And you will stand before the choice whether to continue this path, whether to strengthen Poland and build it, increasingly stable, resistant to such crises as today and rich, or to turn it into a country of an increasingly eastern model, so as not to say: Russian. In the country... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Senator... ...in which... ...thank you very much... ...in which it only matters... ...find out. ...the voice and will of one man, increasingly detached from reality in his bunker in Nowogrodzka. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of the marshal, Senator Grażyna Morawska... Gabrielle. Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Excuse me, Miss Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In a crisis situation, the responsible government is looking for rational solutions, and these are solutions that will fully combat the crisis that has been encountered, in this particular case the fight against the pandemic. However, our government did not stand up to the task. I'll skip ignoring this epidemic in January and February this year, let's just leave it at that. But we cannot move on to the fact that the opposition's conclusions have been ignored, ignored, and that the opposition, all the political options, to lean on this problem together, to establish together, beyond divisions, a strategy against the coronavirus. Legislative proposals, including Senate proposals, have been disregarded. The efforts of the Senate, which has taken the legislative initiative which lies in the Sejm, which is still unrecognized, and the Senate, which has made correct and factual amendments to those adopted in a hurry, were ignored. A rational ruler in the face of such a tragedy as it is for society, for the economy this pandemic is trying to get help and cooperation from all political forces. But unfortunately, our government didn't do it. And we can ask ourselves: why? The answer is very simple: because the most important issue for the government I dare say that as early as February, and certainly in March, there was a way to bring the election to the 10th of May at all costs. It was a key and most important goal. And it upset the rulers to see the reality around them. Before Christmas, people were locked in their homes, deluded that this would reduce the number of infections, but it would help to carry out these choices. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. Today is May 6, and every day there are infections, and every day there are deaths. Of course, more would come if more tests were carried out every day, but some odd way in the last few days is to be tested less. Therefore, the laws that were intended to serve our citizens, to help them, were included in the laws completely unrelated to the fight against the coronavirus, e.g. amending the provisions of the electoral code. That is why it was also passed, which was pushed through a constitutionally incompatible bill on correspondence voting. After all, the idea of holding presidential elections in such a situation is absurd and demonstrates one thing: that the President's office has completely ignored it. I will say more: you are also completely disregarding the President, which has been a cause of great embarrassment for me over the last five years, although I personally did not vote for Andrzej Duda, I don't think anyone suspects me. But it was the president elected by my fellow citizens, and I was embarrassed when he was ignored during a state ceremony during meetings. Also when he was brought in on the night of the bill and was expected to sign it immediately. As well as when he was brought in understudys that he had to swear in the morning. The disregard of the person and office is also the way in which this shameful bill on correspondence voting is passed and the way in which these elections continue to be held. After all, it is clear that if the president is elected at a low turnout, he will not have the mandate of a nation to hold his office for the next years. In other countries and international organisations it will not be respected at all. His I.D. will be questioned. It's embarrassing, isn't it? for this man. It's a huge shame for him who wants to get on his back. But for the PiS, there's one thing that's important. For the president to have a pen and for 24 hours he was ready to follow orders. That's why the PiS wants this election now and at all costs. At the cost of health, the lives of our citizens, our citizens. Those who will distribute packages and those who will later risk counting votes or those who will really want to vote. All these laws have caused unimaginable legal chaos and political crisis. And he's not gonna tell anyone that... who caused this? That's what caused the PiS. That's what caused the rulers. Because it's the PiS that rules this country. He's got executive power, he's got most of it in the Seym. At least he had And he's got a president. And it is the PiS that bears full responsibility, both for this chaos and for the crisis and, more importantly, for the consequences of this crisis. And chaos. For the economic consequences and for the consequences for our citizens, but also for the consequences of lowering the rank of Poland on the international stage. And in connection with this chaos, you have to, even when you're running away from it, finally act. We must finally show courage. Perhaps this is the last moment to announce, even though late by two months late, the state of the natural disaster. One thing's for sure, these are the problems you've caused, and these are the problems you're going to have to solve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u168	Thank you, Senator. I will now ask the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. Room 182. Senator Chróścikowski is here. Okay, it's miswritten, but... It's wrongly written... It's necessary in the room. Oh, the senator is required in room 182, yes... Are we waiting for Senator Chróścikowski? There it is. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been discussing and discussing for a long time today and yesterday, and we are all wondering how important security is. We all care about the safety of citizens and it can be said that all the actions that the government takes and which the opposition takes are intended only for security. This is the main reason for this resolution, and it is all about safety. I think there is no government action to put citizens at risk when it comes to voting. However, of course there is also a constitutional record and we want this constitution to be respected. Well, you can say that the state today by this resolution is forcing the government to take action. But you can also ask: why didn't you vote on the bill voted yesterday at least two weeks earlier, which gave you the opportunity to hold elections? Today, the government is actually facing a difficult decision, thinking about what to do, and certainly wondering what to do. However, you have not helped the government solve the problem. It is well known that your marshal has spoken to the President of the State Election Commission, who has stated that in this situation he is unable to hold elections. It is a fact, it is stated. Therefore, this country was, as it were, consciously politically acting in this direction for this to happen. And today you're prepared, too, on your knees, because without the opinion of the government that you don't want, without setting up a finance committee that you don't want either... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, it's already your decision, and it's probably going to happen that you're going to make that resolution, whether or not some of us are going to be for it or against it. I just want to justify my vote. I will vote against this resolution because I believe that this is all moving towards a political game. There's a security concern, yes, but there's a political game behind. Therefore, I will consciously vote against. Here, my previous speakers have said so much that it is difficult to repeat the same quotes, whether it is after Senator Jackowski or with other speakers of mine who performed from the Law and Justice. Let me say this, I have repeatedly written proposals, as the chairman of the agricultural union, of course, at the request of farmers, also wrote about the declaration of the state of the natural disaster. We have written many times, even in 2005, when there was such a powerful disaster due to drought. Of course, you can say, the government didn't want to do anything at the time, because he knew that if there were massive losses, it would cost the country a lot. At that time, of course, aid was granted to farmers, but in the sense that it was supposed to be... I may be wrong about the amounts, but it was about PLN 400 million. It helped farmers, but the losses were billions. So I'm showing here an element of the operation of the previous government, a government that didn't make a decision in 2005. I do not hide that farmers have raised and are now repeatedly raising this to bring disaster as a result of drought But it wasn't introduced. Because everyone's afraid of the cost. Of course, it can be said that these 2 billion PLN paid to farmers for 2018 is some kind of aid, but it also does not cover the costs or losses suffered by farmers. It was only partial compensation. In a year's time, the last farmers have received 1 billion, and they are still waiting for about 1 billion to be paid, but it is not there at the moment, because money, as the government has said, must go to fight the epidemic. So that the government will pay it later, because now there is no money. And he's sorry that at this point he's only given the advance money, and he didn't give any more money, but they're gone because the funds are now being spent fighting COVID. I, as a representative of farmers, understand these actions, because if we're going to fight, let's fight together, and the costs are huge. But in this connection, I'm showing here that everyone's approach is that declaring the state of a natural disaster is not at the hands of every authority that it is at a given moment, because it means a huge cost. And I don't think that this resolution will matter whether we take it or not, because the government will consciously decide or not to take it. And you, of course, are guilty of not having an election... If you were two weeks early... Maybe then the choices would be different, maybe there'd be some new changes. And now, in this case, don't presume that these elections can take place in such a formula or in another way. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u170	Thank you, Senator. And I would like the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary. Room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, our health care, health care, fights the coronavirus bravely. We have succeeded in not having such a disaster as in Italy or even in Spain, in some parts of Italy. This is the result of a very great effort, which, of course, is also occupied by isolation and everything that society has done, adapting to its recommendations. It's kind of our success. But we also have to say this to ourselves: we cannot practice success propaganda. Talking about how we're the first in Europe, the best that we've done the best, the best that we've done... Well, at a time when we're still having trouble supplying hospitals with gloves, the easiest equipment when we run very little tests, it's a propaganda of success based on facts. During the rounds of the night, the Minister of Health was to present us with recommendations for the elections. He was to present them on the basis of a report by the chief health inspector, which was to determine how the epidemic was shaping, how it would be in May, how it would be at the beginning of May, at the end of May, etc. Well, we didn't know the data, because the chief health inspector couldn't comment on it, because he didn't know the method of making choices either. He didn't know what he was going to do, so he couldn't tell whether these choices would be safe or not. The argument that they'll be safer... Of course, envelope or correspondence choices are safer than traditional ones, whether during an epidemic or in a period without epidemics, they are always safer. But are they safe? Well, we didn't hear that. We didn't hear safe words because we couldn't hear them. And that's not to be surprised. Before these recommendations were announced, there were arguments that if the epidemic was extinguished, if the curve was flattened, there would be no fresh diseases, etc., then the elections could be held. But it turns out today is different. Today we have the other data. The epidemic is at most suppressed. It could explode like a fire in a forest that's smoldering, but it's gonna take a lot bigger than it's been so far. We're loose. We've got crèches, kindergartens, but it's pretty controversial. We know how people react, how DPS reacts, and how all this can translate into a situation in kindergartens, where children can also carry the virus asymptomaticly. Well, we don't know the situation, we don't know how it's going to grow. It's a pretty risky move. And the sick are coming, and it's again a large number of sick people. Therefore, I think that the issue of the introduction of a natural disaster is justified. There's a recipe here... Pursuant to the said provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in order to prevent the effects of natural disasters or technical accidents bearing the characteristics of natural disasters and to remove them, the Council of Ministers may introduce the state of natural disasters in part or throughout the territory of the State on a time-limit of not more than 30 days. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member States to the formulation of "in order to prevent." The aim is not only to remove effects, e.g. epidemics, but also prevention. Elections that fall out in May This is, of course, a constitutional term, but the unhappy one can aggravate this epidemic. There's a lot of opinions that's gonna happen. It's not, let's say, 100 percent certainty, but you can very likely say it will. It is our duty not only to eliminate the effects of different threats, but also to prevent them. If elections can really be a factor that will contribute to the natural disaster and this disaster at this point is an epidemic This must be countered. So we need to introduce this as a factor to counter the development of a natural disaster. Why? Well, because it is May 6th, and we are sure that on May 26th the epidemic will continue in Poland, it will not be effectively removed from our inhabitants, our society. That is why we should use this record that talks about countering. It's pretty normal, it's pretty ordinary. Take, for example. martial law. Well, I imagine if there's a war threat, we're not gonna wait for a war to go off to introduce martial law. Of course, the sooner we do this, the better. The same is true of the state that we are currently dealing with. There's an epidemic threat, there's a natural disaster caused by an epidemic, and there's an event that's about to happen, which is an election. The way to prevent this disaster from developing is to introduce a state of natural disaster, because then the elections will, in accordance with the Constitution, be postponed. We have a legal solution, a solution enshrined in a constitution that no one has doubts about, and we can apply it calmly. I think these arguments about not doing it today are unheard of. In March, when the epidemic started, of course, the state of the natural disaster could also be introduced, but if it were introduced then it was only due to the anticipated development of the disease. We could've assumed. In fact, this was very unlikely. That this epidemic will not be as severe, as terrible as it turned out. At that time we might have thought that this May election date was to be maintained, but today we already know that it is not. We've known that for weeks. We should have been in a state of disaster a long time ago, but we didn't bring him in. So I don't think that's a bad term. I believe that this is the last date, as the 10th of May is in a few days. I strongly urge you to reflect on this aspect: we are not only to remove the effects, but also to prevent the development of various disasters, including epidemics. To this end, the state of the natural disaster should be introduced. I'm not gonna speak on legal issues or anything else. It is simply a way to prevent further development of the epidemic, so it should be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u172	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Senator Tight... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Since a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. You're welcome, Senator Tight. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u173	Mr Marshal, I would like to make a request for a third reading of the draft resolution still in this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u174	Thank you. Objection, objection! If I don't hear any objection, Senator, I'll assume the Senate has accepted the motion... But I heard an objection, so I'm putting this motion of Senator Wright to the vote. Who's in favor of your request... But I don't have my card. Excuse me. My card, please. Have all the senators gathered? There you go, Senators, we're about to vote. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Mr. Senator Kaminski, are you okay? Take it easy. Looks like it is. Yes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favor of Senator Wcisla's motion? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's holding back? Please. Slowly. And Senator Libicki. And Senator Libicki. Okay, okay. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no. It's different today. The results of the vote, please. Just a moment, Mr. Marshal, because Senator Bierecki has a problem. Senator Bierecki has a problem. Okay, let's get this problem solved. Mr. Senator Bierecki, we're waiting. Already? It's gone. We're done. It's okay. 85 senators voted 45 in favour, 40 against. [[Voting No 15]] The motion has been accepted. I'm declaring a recess...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u175	Five minutes after the adjournment... Excuse me, what time is it? ...in Rooms 176 and 179 a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held on the examination of the proposals submitted for a draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce the state of the natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State. Rooms 176 and 179, Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u176	I'm calling a half-hour break, exactly by 6:30. After the break there will be a vote on this resolution. It's 6:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 59 to 18 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u177	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce the state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 109 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u178	Mr Marshal, the Legislative Commission has approved the draft resolution by a majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u179	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by the senators Alexander Szwed, Jerzy Czerwiński, Rafał Ambrozik and Marek Pęk. Senator Jerzy Wcisła was the committee's rapporteur after first reading. I don't see any calls. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the draft resolution contained in print No 109 S. I would like to remind you that the senators present in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 give their vote by pressing the button on the apparatus. The Senators participating in the deliberations are asked to press the button "OK" in order to confirm their willingness to take part in the vote. The decision to take part in the vote will show the voting window with 3 options to choose from: Clicking one of these 3 rows results in the selection mark in the circle on the left. To vote, send your decision to the system. For this purpose, press the "Transmit" button on some of the tablets "Submit" in the top right corner of the window and approve by pressing the next "Transmit" button that will appear there. We proceed to the vote on the motion of the senator group to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 51 against. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print no. 109 S. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 49 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce a state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 103 and the committee's report In print No 103 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee which, at its meeting on 4 May 2020, examined the Act of the Marshal of the Senate amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. The Act provides for the establishment of a list of medicines most commonly used by pregnant women whose acquisition would be financed entirely by public funds. During the committee's deliberations, Undersecretary of State Maciej Miłkowski discussed the bill under review and presented the government's position on the matter. A representative of the Legislative Office, Maciej Telec, submitted legislative comments. Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz filed a motion to adopt the bill without amendments, and Senator Ewa Matecka A legislative proposal for a law which, in short, extends the scope of this law to women in the floor. The chairman of the Beata Małecka-Libera committee put all the proposals submitted to the vote. None of the proposals received a majority, and the committee therefore presents all the voting proposals during the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Secretary Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak in room 182. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to the representative... no, during the discussion... There's no government representative... Well, it should be. There's no government representative, and he's supposed to be... Yeah, yeah. Can you give me a call? Because the bill was filed by the government... [[Speech in the background of the recording]] Then we'll take a break... Can the Minister... In five minutes... So I'm running a five-minute break to allow the Minister to come. Okay? All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 40 to 18 minutes 45]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Are there senators enrolled in the questions? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka and Senator Halina Bieda came forward to ask questions to the rapporteur. I ask Senator Danuta Jazłowick to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u182	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, Senator Ewa Matecka has tabled an amendment during the work of the Health Committee, which has extended the list of women entitled to free medication to include women on the floor who, at birth, do not give in to ailments, but on the contrary, these women need treatment so that they have a chance to fully recover and take care of children. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the amendment tabled by Senator Ewa Matecka goes beyond the scope of this law. I would also like to ask whether it is true that at the meeting of the committee, the Senators of the PiS were reluctant to introduce this amendment and voted against such changes. I would also like to ask if this is the case. And if there is, then why? The law states that if, in the first half of the year concerned, 60% of the expenditure for the provision of this free treatment is actually exceeded, the Minister responsible for Health will implement a downward correction mechanism... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a little quieter... ...in terms of the possibility of using this free treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, can you answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u184	Of course. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, Senator Matecka's amendment concerns women in the floor, as I said during the report, and this is a very valid amendment, because, as you know, many diseases that occur in the floor are the result of pregnancy. Well, it's a natural consequence of pregnancy, so you have to consider these two states together. I think it was the omission of the issue of the patronage that was an oversight, and that's why such a provision was not included in the original bill. We discussed this during the committee's deliberations, the arguments were presented for and against. Indeed, a representative of the Ministry of Health was opposed to extending access to these free medicines, including the provision of women on the floor. And the Senator's vote on the amendment went on in such a way that it was a tie: three senators voted in favour, three against. This is why it is now entirely subject to the Senate's assessment. I can say in this way, the arguments are that during pregnancy these drugs are used very little, it is a natural principle that the use of drugs is limited to as little as possible. Often these are medicines already refunded, because chronic diseases that occur... The fact that pregnancy is during the treatment of these diseases does not in any way relieve the refund of these medicines. In fact, there is a situation where the mother is already pregnant, and if the mother is not breast-feeding, she can use all the medicines properly. This help... Well, because of these changed medications, for those that a woman took during pregnancy, it is advisable to extend this free treatment process over the period of her period. But, as I said, here, the position of the applicant, the government, was different, and at the time of the vote, it was a tie. As for the 60% expenditure limit, this was not a discussion during the committee meeting. Therefore, I think that during the discussion of the project, the position of the applicants will be presented, why this was the case. During the committee's deliberations, we did not raise this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u185	Thank you very much. Here you go, Senator Halina Poor, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually have these editorial questions. Point 6 (1) states: the need to satisfy the health needs of those recipients arising from pregnancy. This may not even be a question for the Senator rapporteur, but I do not think it is very clear. If there was some kind of punctuation, which in many cases... isn't very good here either. It also seems to me that the lists should relate to the number of packages refunded, not to the quantity refunded, because the packages are counted. Well, and that's probably the most important question, is the question: can't the word of the recipient be replaced by the word of the woman? Well, women are pregnant. Types of sentences... Everywhere there are: recipients during pregnancy. More like pregnant women. As a mother of four children, I think this record is so sloppy, so sloppy and really undefined. It's known that it's women who are pregnant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, would it be possible to silence mobile phones? It really bothers me, especially when we're connecting with those halls next door. The senators in the courtroom just don't hear what those senators are saying. I'm asking you to mute your cell phones. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u188	Thank you very much. As to the statement of the recipients, that is to say, transferred from the law on medicinal activities, then there appeared the providers, the recipients instead of hospitals, instead of patients. It's probably a transfer of those terms, actually, maybe the wrong ones. There was no discussion on this at the committee meeting. As for point 1 of point 6, I would like to say that this is indeed a broad concept. I think it's a good thing that it's wide, because actually many diseases are the result or result of pregnancy, they get worse during pregnancy, they manifest diseases that haven't been there before. So that maybe such a broad concept is not impossible, but I also think that here the applicant's representative must speak. I would like to add, for a moment, that the legislator present during the committee's deliberations on the question which was raised, as to whether the bass is too large an extension of this law, said that it is not that it is not only substantive but also acceptable from the point of view of the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u189	Thank you very much. There are no more senators who would like to ask a question... Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor has just made it. At this moment, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor has reported himself remotely. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u190	Thank you very much. I have a brief question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Namely, it is known that general recommendations for pregnant women are such as to use as little medicine as possible, because no studies are conducted on pregnant women because it is unethical. These are old and cheap drugs. I'm not talking about special surveillance units, heart defects, women like that. The most common medicines that are prescribed during pregnancy are dietary supplements, iron preparations, which complement shortages. I have a question: does this bill cause you to be reimbursed the supplements necessary to conduct a healthy pregnancy in women, or will they be refunded by this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u192	Thank you very much. Well, it's set out in the Act, which will be refundable. The list of those specialties that will be refunded will only be identified by the Minister of Health, so it is difficult to tell what will be on it. This was, moreover, the subject of a substantive discussion in which it was argued that it was precisely difficult to adopt a law to determine that medicines would be free of charge, and we do not know which medicines, because there is no attached list. There are no diet supplements here, or even medications, say, recipes, which are not known to be refunded. It is a more intentional law that allows, in turn, a list of medicines to be refunded. So we will not be able to answer such specific questions until we have a list created by the Minister, and in addition a list that will probably be changed several times a year. So that maybe there are specifics on it, and maybe there aren't. I can't answer that. Perhaps the Ministry's representative already has some scope for this list. We didn't have her introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u193	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health has been authorised to present the position of the Government. Minister Maciej Miłkowski is in the room. I would like to ask whether a government representative wishes to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government. Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u194	Yes, I'd like to present the position of the government. First of all, I would like to say a few words with regard to questions, maybe a little more. As far as women in bed are concerned, the entire bill, the entire bill was dedicated to pregnant women and free drugs are for pregnant women. The government has therefore adopted this law as defining benefits for pregnant women. He did not refer to them as benefits to women in the womb or women later, because we know that diabetes may also remain and may be in the longer term. Coming in this direction, it would certainly be possible to extend this list to women aged 75+, because by then we are already entering into a different law, other provisions referring to free medicines for people aged 75+. And it doesn't seem right. Besides, the Sejm adopted by a large majority that this should be the case. As far as the correction mechanism is concerned, every bill has to be... This is public funding, from the State budget, which is additional resources, and the correction mechanism must therefore be included in the budget. The value of the funds for this purpose is also taken into account. If this budget is planned to be exceeded, the Minister of Health is required to correct such a planned overrun. We've had a lot of experience with a similar mechanism, which is medicine for people of 75+, and there was no such situation. There was one situation, when it was planned, expected a higher execution. At the time, the legislator, at the request of the Ministry of Health, amended the law and increased the annual limit of these expenditures, and therefore it was not necessary to correct this correction mechanism downwards and it was not necessary to reduce the list of medicines reimbursed They were there for people of 75+. Because in the budget plan, the financial plan, there is an annual increase of 10% And it's very tall, so we don't plan for anything to happen in this area. Of course, the pregnant woman... The whole bill is designed... This is a revision of the Act on financial health benefits from public funds, which uses the terms of the provider, the recipient, and the woman at the time of pregnancy does not cease to be a patient, the woman who has the right to free public benefits, therefore is also called the recipient. So we don't define such a person as a pregnant woman, just like we did when we changed the medicines bill for 75+ people, we didn't define them as elderly people. They are also patients, even if they are older. When it comes to dietary supplements, the entire bill is so constructed that the drugs that will be on the list of drugs refunded for pregnant women... These are medicines that have been accepted on the list of refunded medicines and are therefore only intended for prescription treatment. And with these medications... there will be a catalogue of medications that women take during pregnancy, which are safe for women and which women use today. What's the plan? That would be all the drugs women have been using so far. So that this is a law that provides, after the issue of the list of medicines for 75+ people, another extension of the groups authorised for free medicines. The annual plan for the first full year is PLN 24 million from the budget. As I said, this amount is sufficient. And then every year, we're going to increase it, if we have extra resources, by 10%. I would very much like to ask you to pass this law, perhaps just as in the Seym, which is almost unanimously, and that you lean on the fact that this is an additional important issue for pregnant women. Of course, the issue of further powers, for subsequent groups of people, is an element of a completely separate law and we will certainly also think about it, but not all at once. So that's what I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u195	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions using the application chat rooms. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka has come forward until the next question is asked. I'm asking the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In fact, Minister, your speech has provoked me to ask this question because you said you have very good experience with the reimbursement of medicines for 75+ people, and in case there is a need, you increase it. Hence my question: why aren't you taking advantage of your experience, your good practices, or are they completely relevant to you? Because in the case of pregnant and postpartum women, you write down very rigidly, you use a rigid record in which you say that if in the first half of a given year the use of these funds has taken place at 60% ... And that tells me it's really the next six months. It'll probably be 60% too. Maybe even more. But you guys are writing it down hard, you can only correct it down. I don't understand this behavior on your part.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u197	Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to ask you a question? No. Therefore, I'm opening a discussion... There's an answer. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u198	Of course, I'd be happy to answer that. The situation I was talking about was that since the planned implementation was higher than the planned plan for a given year, the law had to be amended and this budget increased accordingly. And it was agreed by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health. That's what we did. But the correction mechanism for 75+ drugs is the same. The situation here, too, is that if the planned execution is higher than the one for a given year, the Minister of Health is required to reduce the list of medicines for... 75+ drugs accordingly. So that these are similar rules. And because of that... This must be the case because the Ministry of Finance must have the assurance in the planning of the state budget that the funds are to be secured for the financing of individual laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u199	Thank you very much. Now I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, who are in room 182, to Senator Victor Durlak. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your senators, who are participating in the meeting remotely, please report to the discussion via the chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating in the meeting, remotely - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera spoke in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, I think that full acceptance of this law does not cause much controversy. On the contrary, we believe that this is a good direction to support women who want to have a child, become pregnant, and are also in health problems, often suffering from some chronic conditions that require longer treatment periods or medications. None of us have any doubts about this. However, I would like to draw attention to the House's rather bizarre and twisted course of the legislative process itself. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister said that the work on this law, which, moreover, is not extremely complicated and long, has been going on since the previous term of office. Somehow a strange coincidence, just now, in May, this bill goes into session here, but it gives rise to quite a lot of interest as to why this deadline. But that's not what's important. Dear Women, Dear Lord, the worst thing about this bill is that, although we are proceeding over it today, it will not enter into force until July. But the fact that it will come into force in July doesn't mean much either, because the first list of medicines that will be free and you will be able to receive will be sent to you in September at the earliest. So let's not be happy right now. I believe that this type of law, which has been prepared for so long, should go to the Health Committee together with the Annex, together with the Minister's regulation on what medicines will be free of charge for these women. Why is it so important? Because a special group of medicines is separated from the refunded medicines, which, as has already happened many times here, will also be limited financially. That is why, of course, this kind of direction of thought and action must be supported on the one hand, but on the other hand it also shows that, despite such a long process, this law is thoughtful. And the second point that I would like to draw attention to and in which I would like to appeal, using the High House Forum. I would like to support the National Influenza Control Programme, which has officially sent a letter to the Health Commission on support for preventive measures. And this is a good opportunity, especially now, during the pandemic period of the virus, when so much is being said about prevention, vaccination and the need to promote these vaccinations, so that we work together in this direction and not only educate the public, but also to this group of medicines that will be medicines for free dedicated pregnant women, they also added free vaccinations against influenza. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u201	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am taking the floor to support Senator Matecka's amendment to the floor. Pregnancy, as we know, lasts 9 months, six weeks, so the scope of these expenses, this huge extension is not so big, because just a fraction of the period of pregnancy covers this period of labor, so it is not a big change that would shake the budget or make this law impossible to implement. Well, we have to realize that with the pregnancy, there are various diseases, they're getting worse, they're coming out, they're coming out, and they don't disappear on the day of birth like they touch a magic wand. Yes, the period of puberty is often the period during which these conditions are slow but disappear, but they still need to be treated, and it is quite intense, often changing those medicines that were the only ones available during pregnancy, as they are possible to be used during pregnancy, and already others are possible to use during puberty. So that I am hot for this amendment, the more that the situation may arise, that doctors, knowing that this medicine is refunded during pregnancy and is not refunded already during the period of bedtime, may prescribe it more. After all, they will prescribe these medications at the end of pregnancy in any amount of packaging, or two packages, or... well, as much as they need, and therefore the patient will also be taking these medications during the period of bedtime. And then what? Do we assume that if the doctor prescribes too many of these packages at the end of the pregnancy, we will be chasing him because then they are already free of charge during the period of bedtime and should only be free of charge during pregnancy, so should the patient report 15 days before birth, prescribe 15 tablets, even though it is in the package, assume 60 tablets? Is that supposed to count? Well, let's say that this is an unnecessary handicap here, and this can be solved in a simple way by adopting this amendment, which also includes extending the treatment over a period of time. However, it is also the case that whether anticoagulant treatment or other treatments that are used in the floor must be used for a different period of time. There is an embolism venous disease that may worsen during pregnancy and also does not resolve immediately, so this treatment is necessary. And the question is, isn't pregnancy an indication, and what's after pregnancy isn't? I think that the amendment is both substantive and not merely factually justified, so that I strongly appeal to accept it. I also call on the President to accept the amendment which removes such a bad provision in this law that the review of the prescription of these medicines will be carried out in the form of a verification which is due to take place from 1 July, while the computer system is not due to start until 1 January 2021. So here is an unnecessary period of inspection, in which there is no way to verify it. And this is the legislative amendment, it is absolutely justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u203	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u204	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Mr. Senator, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The proposed law actually introduces a further individual exemption, only that it is limited to pregnant women and to the diseases that result from being pregnant. Taking care, care, and special care to meet all the health needs of pregnant women and when they are pregnant is essential is very important. We all know that many diseases and many changes that occur during pregnancy resolve very slowly, only during the period of postpartum. We all know that treatment and driving women often must also be continued during the period of bedtime. I consulted this bill with both gynecologists and midwives. Their opinion is what I'm presenting right now. During pregnancy, very carefully of course, the treatment of women suffering from various diseases is usually based on the use of medicines such as anti-inflammatory drugs, hypotensives, antifungals and haematopoietics, which must also be used during the period of bedtime. In addition, new medicines and new measures are often added during the period of pilgrimage, which allow a woman to get out of this stage unhindered and mildly, which is actually very closely related to the entire pregnancy. This stage, which I am talking about, is the stage of the conurbation, that is only 6 and 8 weeks. I believe that we will show a pro-family, pro-social attitude and concern for women, if we adopt this law, extended by the amendment I have proposed for women in the post-partum period, which also require our care, our care, our support. I believe, High Izbo, that finance should have no meaning here, especially since it will certainly not be an excessive burden on the state budget. I appeal to all senators and senators to accept this bill with my amendment. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u205	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Benjamin Godyla, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Maciej Łuczak made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The text of the Act is contained in print 107 and the report of the Commission In print No 107 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On 5 May, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation dealt with this law. There's been a discussion. At the meeting of the committee, the bill was submitted by Mr Ireneusz Zebra, Deputy Minister of Climate. This law concerns the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament, so-called. a gas directive which harmonises the rules on pipelines passing through the territory of several European Union countries. In the Seym, an article was added to this draft law. 2, which concerns the amendment of the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. This is about eliminating interpretation doubts about obtaining connections from these cogeneration sources. A rather intense debate took place at the committee meeting, but ultimately the bill was adopted unanimously, unanimously. There were 10 votes in favour, of course no one voted against and no one abstained. There were comments from the Legislative Bureau, but they were not as substantive as technical and editorial comments. None of the senators have tabled proposals proposed by the Legislative Bureau as their amendments. As I mentioned at the beginning, the bill was unanimously approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik and to Senator Victor Durlak in room 182. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Śvilski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka has been asked to ask you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, you have provoked me to come forward and explain, maybe not necessarily to ask a question, but to explain the fact that you're missing the truth. This document was not adopted unanimously. I was the person who abstained from voting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... And I held back... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because you really can't hear. Senator, would you please speak closer to the microphone? I can't hear you. Yes, of course, Mrs. Marshal. And I did not vote in favour of this law because... the directive in the European Parliament, in the Council, was adopted in April 2019. The government had a whole year to implement this directive. He did not prepare this directive, but he did so at the very end, two weeks before the deadline for this implementation in our country. The project was completely introduced a new point on promotion, conclusion of contracts and termination of contracts. It's a point that, in accordance with the constitution and in accordance with our law, requires a vacathio legis. This vacathio legis could not be introduced precisely because this document was submitted at the last moment. And that was the reason why I did not express my acceptance and I abstained from voting on this document. I would like to ask the rapporteur to correct his report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u209	Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u210	If the senator abstained, she probably abstained. I might have missed it. I'm not questioning that. The senator knows best how she voted. What more can I say? Well, I'm correcting that in the sense that no one was against the resolution, and the senator abstained. As for the substantive things concerning this law, Mr Ireneusz Nagroda, who was at the committee meeting, responded, among others. to the questions of the senator, who was one of those senators who participated in the discussion on this project. The Minister explained these doubts, explained why these terms coincided. And what were the intentions. I think I see the minister. If necessary, the Minister will once again respond to the doubts of the senator, which he had already explained at the committee meeting. He'll say it again. I can only say in one sentence that this directive, adopted by the European Parliament, was adopted in April 2019, but the old Parliament, the previous term of office, simply did not have time to ratify this directive and, in accordance with the law of the new term, this proposal had to be brought back. At first, we had this start, and then, of course, we had more pressing issues with the coronavirus, and today... Of course, there is such a nodal date on 24 May, and hence there is a request from the government that the provisions of this directive should enter into Polish legislation before 24 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. In view of the fact that the draft law was introduced by the government and that the Minister of Climate Affairs has been authorised to represent the government on this issue, Mr Ireneusz Oda is in the Chamber. I have a question for the Minister whether the Minister wishes to take the floor on this bill and present the position of the Government. Yes, Mrs. Marshal. You're welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u212	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senators! I am pleased to present the Government's position on the draft law amending the Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. It is a law of extreme importance for Poland's energy security and competition in the European natural gas market. The proposed bill aims to implement the so-called amendment to the Polish legal order. the 2019 gas directive, which the Government of the Republic of Poland has been seeking to adopt in the European forum since 2017. The amendments adopted require the Member States of the European Union to apply the most important pillars of European Union law to gas pipelines from third countries. This is of great importance to Poland, because in practice it means the end of operation in the legal vacuum of pipelines originating from outside the European Union, including Nord Stream and Nord Stream 2. For all pipelines operating within the European Union, including offshore pipelines, European Union law will apply. The essence of the proposed amendment of energy law is the implementation of these provisions into the Polish legal order. I would like to point out that even before the amendment of the Gas Directive, European Union law was fully applicable to all pipelines operating in Poland. Consequently, the proposed change will not directly affect the Polish gas system or the entities that operate in Poland. Despite this, we are obliged to implement the Directive, as it also provides for mechanisms for international cooperation on the functioning of interconnection pipelines. The Act therefore regulates the competence issues of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to participate in consultations with other Member States or to evaluate projects outside the Union which may affect the Polish market. The proposed law will have significant indirect, international effects. The harmonisation of the legal regime vis-à-vis all transport pipelines operating in the European Union will benefit from the conditions of competition and will end the favouring of gas pipelines from third countries, and the new powers of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will ensure that Poland's interests are represented in the procedures carried out by regulators of other Member States, such as the Federal Republic of Germany. The amendments introduced by the Act in the Energy Law are designed to effectively implement the Gas Directive, do not go beyond the scope of its regulation and have been consulted with the European Commission. The Act also contains an important provision concerning cogeneration auctions for the natural gas-based manufacturing sector. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, I would also like to say a few words about the provisions on support for the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. These are provisions which were tabled as a parliamentary amendment at the legislative stage of the Sejm, but were accepted by the government and voted in plenary by the Sejm. They are important in improving market competitiveness. These are provisions expected by the industry as a whole, especially by gas companies. In the context of the discussion that took place at the Committee on National Economy and Innovation in the Senate yesterday, where many questions related to, for example, a short period of vacathio legis have been raised, I would like to say that both in the case of the implementation of the Gas Directive, as well as provisions to promote the production of electricity from high efficiency cogeneration... This shortening of vacathio legis is intended to enter into force the day after the announcement of the law is beneficial for the stakeholders, for all the entities concerned by the Act. It is worth noting that in the interest of the Polish State it is in the interest of our legal order that the Directive should be implemented before 24 May this year, in view of the fact that the Directive contains a provision indicating this date as a limit date, the date until which third parties could exclude themselves from the regulations contained in this Gas Directive, upon request to the regulator of the relevant State. This is particularly the case for Nord Stream and Nord Stream 2, which have already submitted such requests for exemption from the regulation under the Gas Directive. To the German regulator. After the implementation of this directive in the Polish legal order, Poland will be entitled to veto, to challenge such decisions if they were taken in favour of those who seek to exclude them from the scope of the directive. As regards the statements made by Senator Jazłowiecka, I would like to point out and inform the High House, the States of Senators, who are not members of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation or did not listen to the interesting discussion that took place in the committee, that the work on the implementation of the Gas Directive started in July last year. The Directive was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2019 but entered into force in June. Almost a few days later, at the beginning of July work began at the Ministry of Energy at that time on implementation. I have a detailed list here... I want to assure the High House that every month, according to the legislative path, work has been carried out, agreed with the European Commission, in order to ensure that the content of the directive is implemented in a very precise manner in the Polish legal order. Consultation with the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure is another tedious work related to the drafting of the bill, justification, impact assessment, and finally on the progress of the entire detailed process related to the government presentation path, which is mandatoryly burdened with the need to apply this procedural path. It is important to know that, as we know, parliamentary elections took place in Poland last October. The formation of a new government, the new Council of Ministers, deletes the existing legislative action, for example, related to the inclusion of a draft law in the list of government legislative work. Therefore, after the formation of the new Council of Ministers, we were forced to start maybe not all, but most of the work from the beginning, with the bill included in the list of government legislative work and the transition of the entire procedural path from the beginning. Unfortunately, this was the issue of the outbreak of Coronavirus. When the Ministry of Climate gained competence in terms of ownership, as a host, of the bill, we immediately directed it to legislative work. On 5 March, the project was transferred to the Sejm. It is, of course, very easy to say that the directive was adopted, adopted or entered into force in June last year, and the government has done nothing about it for almost a year, and two weeks before the deadline of 24 May, it presents it to the High House, which is here in the Senate. This is quite difficult and I do not think I can agree with such a critical assessment, because objective obstacles have stood in the way of making this implementation complete. I would also like to inform the High House that we are the seventh Member State to implement this. So far, six countries have done so: Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Hungary and Croatia. And I think the delay that's on our side is small. But at this point, I'd like to say two things. First of all... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask for some peace. But I'm the hardest... Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry... ...I'm so sorry... But you're apologizing to us... ...Mrs. Marshal... Mr. Senator, did your comment on the snotty-sniffer concern the Minister of the Polish Government? I didn't say that. I did. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please take your seat. No... Minister, I didn't say a word like that... Forgive me, but this is unimaginable to me... The Minister knows me well, and he knows I haven't returned... Mr. Senator, I am very sorry and I apologize to the Supreme Chamber of the Polish Parliament, but this kind of formulation... I'm sitting very close to the senator and I hear your comments... Minister, I'm asking you again to listen to me because I haven't said a word about... ...they don't fit... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I only showed this picture... Mr. Senator... ...and I showed these guys. It was about the opposite... And for your word, sir, I'm sorry. Your interpretation is not correct... in line with what I said. Thank you. You know I would never say such a thing. I hope the senator's explanations satisfy the Minister. Thank you. And for my part, I kindly ask the senator to take his seat and not interfere with the Minister's statement. I'm so sorry. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister. Mr. Senator, by showing the photograph, he explained what was going on. I just hope you're satisfied with that. Proceed. ...showed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all As far as the finals go, I'd like to... [[Cell phone signal]] Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked you to turn off or mute your cell phones. It really bothers others. You're welcome to go again. Excuse me, Minister, please continue. Thank you very much. To the end, I would like to highlight two things. Firstly, Dear Member States, High Izbo, this directive was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Poland. Since 2017, the government has also sought to build a majority in the European Parliament for this directive, which protects the interests of the Polish state and the market against practices connected with, for example, the construction of pipelines. Nord Stream or Nord Stream 2, negative for us, but also negative for other European countries to monopolise gas supply. The main point is that the owner of the gas pipeline under European Union law cannot be a gas supplier at the same time. And these rules will definitely make it harder for those entities that are the operators of the pipelines I mentioned. Cooperation in the European Parliament was simply the result of Polish interest. It has to be said that all Polish MEPs, including those present in this Chamber, because then MEPs, and today the Senators of the Republic of Poland, participated in the work, in the adoption and adoption of this Gas Directive. The chairman of the Energy Committee, Mr Jerzy Buzek, has also played an important role. And it is worth to emphasize the good cooperation of the Polish government with Polish parliamentarians in Europarlament. And I would also like to assure the High House that the delay in implementation in Poland is the result of a certain unfortunate coincidence, not omission on the part of the Polish Government, because it was the Polish Government, the Government of Law and Justice, which sought to adopt this directive within the European Union. The second thing I would like to emphasise. I would like to thank the members of the Senate Committee on National Economy and Innovation very warmly in the High House. Yesterday we had an interesting, even quite intense, and sometimes even a turbulent discussion, but the senators, regardless of political affiliation, finally showed great responsibility for the interests of the Polish state and adopted a draft law without amendments, for which I thank you again very much. And I would also ask the High House to vote in favour of the bill without amendments, which will allow us as a Member State to adopt the Gas Directive into legal order and to arm the Polish State with possible legal measures, procedural measures in the event that the decisions I have already referred to are at odds with Poland or other Member States in the context of excluding certain entities from the application of this directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. Again, I apologize for the interruption in your speech. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting ask to ask questions using the chat in the application. We're just gonna wait a little longer because maybe there'll be some questions from the senators who are remotely connected. If he's not here in a few moments, I'll say no questions. None of the senators volunteered to ask questions. I therefore open the discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Śvilski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via the chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating remotely in the meeting, of their transmission by electronic means to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the vote. Only guilty is such a saying in Poland. Someone who listened to the Minister's speech must have noticed that, at least four times, the Minister, almost unanswered or unattended, was returning to one point and explaining why this bill was presented so late. That's probably what explains the reason for this. The Minister said at the very beginning of his speech that this law is extremely important for the energy security of Poland. Well, if you were to take it for granted, you would have to consider why the directive adopted by the European Parliament last year was presented to the Senate in May 2020. In March, on March 5th, it was sent to the Sejm. So we are considering this law several days before the deadline for it to enter into force. We all know in this Chamber and in the entire Polish Parliament that if something is extremely important No, perhaps not for Poland, but for Law and Justice, it is adopted by this party within 1 day. Even in the case of this law that we were sitting on Yesterday, we voted for her. Thus, in the case of the election law, the first reading, second reading and third reading took place within 1 day. And they couldn't make that bill for a year! The same was true of dozens of other laws. If they were pursuing the party's interests of Law and Justice, on the first day, two days or the next night, they were passed. Even the president was broken up at night to sign a bill if it was in the interests of a political party. And when it comes to the interests of the Polish state, you say: a, we have time. And then five minutes before the deadline, we get a bill like this. We're facing a difficult situation, because even if they're paying attention to it, And they are, and I'm about to talk about them. It is actually necessary to choose between greater or lesser evil. I would like to say that there are at least two types of comments to this law, except, of course, this general condition for enormous delay. Firstly, here we are dealing with a legal act in which 2 laws are included. One concerns the implementation of the European Union directive into the Polish system of law, and the other is a law, which is a separate law on cogeneration, but was introduced here. That's what I call it. Members' slip In the Sejm. This law should go in a separate mode, but in this way it was arranged to circumvent the first reading. Secondly, the Legislative Office has submitted a lot of comments to this law asking it to be tabled as amendments. And they should be tabled as amendments, so that this bill is, so to speak, impeccable, perfect. But if we have that guillotine of time ahead of us, the deadline is May 23rd. This raises the question of what to do with it. I would like to say, as if by supplementing the rapporteur's speech, who did not say anything about it, that, within the framework of the consensus, he wanted to take care of Poland's interests. It is not only the energy business, as the Minister said, that we agreed not to make any amendments to this law, just so that it would leave here. As soon as possible, to enter into force before the 23rd of May. And I don't just want to communicate it, I want to confirm it. I also say this so that it is not only public, but also clear, so that the government of Law and Justice finally realizes that the Senate, the High Chamber, is not a voting machine like the Sejm, where the law is brought in the morning, at noon it is passed, and in the afternoon it is headed to the Senate. Here, I think, we make an exception. But do not imagine that from this exception you will be doing the norm and that the Senate will act this way or dance under your rhythm like the Sejm. Exception may not be a rule. I would also like to say, because neither the rapporteur mentioned this, nor the Minister, that the Minister had made a declaration. And I, saying that I have inexhaustible confidence, accepted this declaration positively. That all the amendments that I would have tabled today or at the committee meeting... I'm not going to report them because the Minister has declared that in the nearest amendment And the Ministry is working on one. The Ministry will take over these amendments, additions and repairs of the bill. I take it as a positive declaration. And just as part of showing that the democratic opposition for the good of Poland can cooperate with the Government of Law and Justice... I am in charge of this right here, and instead of making amendments, I will expect the Minister to keep his word and, on the occasion of the next amendment, he will improve this law. To conclude, I am in favour of the motion for law and justice. I, the policies of the Civic Platform, the representative of the Civic Coalition, support the motion of Law and Justice to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u215	Thank you very much. That's what they call cooperation over divisions. I think it is possible, however, in the Senate sometimes or even more often. Please take the floor of Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. Thank you very much... Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u216	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, could you speak closer to the microphone to make it your... Thank you very much, Marshal. There you go. I'm built that Senator Szejnfeld at a session as if he was a little less obsessive or a little less critical than what he was doing on the committee. The committee was even more... Well, criticism was stronger. This law is an example that Poland's interest in gas, concerning energy, is the most important thing and that all political forces should simply support it. Yes, those proposals for amendments that the Legislative Bureau has tabled... The Minister himself said they were legitimate. They are well founded, so he has committed himself to the fact that, at the earliest opportunity, these amendments will be taken into account and implemented during the revision of the law. Therefore, the opposition, i.e. both Senator Szejnfeld and the entire Platform, the Coalition on this condition promised that it would also vote in favour of this law. On this occasion, I have an idea... I don't know if it's real, but if it's up to me, being in the Seym... It is simply a matter of sending such draft laws, which are government or mainly government, earlier, just as a project, to legislators, i.e. to the Senate. And so that in such situations concerning very important laws, urgent, it is not so that first it is examined in the government forum, the legislators of the government submit proposals for amendments, then the Sejm submits amendments, the Legislative Office of the Sejm, and only later, when the law is passed, only then the Legislative Office analyses this law in the Senate and can submit proposals for amendments. He has a right, just so there's no future at all... The point is that the bill is better prepared for fewer of these, let's say, shortcomings. So that it would be good if, for example. Already at the stage of the project in the Sejm, the Senate simply received this document so that it could ask for the opinion of our Legislative Office so that the office would give its opinion in advance. Then such a bill after the Senate procedure would not have to return to the Sejm, but simply in a well-prepared version, without these shortcomings, without having to take these remarks into account, the right ones, our Legislative Office at the seymium stage could be accepted. I'm not saying all the laws are so procedated, but these are so important, so similar to this... A formula like that could be accepted. I've been a 13th-year senator, so I was here when the Platform was running together with PSL, as well as the PiS. And I can say that it is always the case that the version which is in the Seym is subject to a number of improvements, and we always have a dilemma, whether to accept amendments and extend legislation, because it delays... Due to the urgency of laws, there is often a call for us to adopt laws without these legislative amendments. They don't bring much... Well, lame law, next time it gets better. I would prefer that the bill that comes out of the Senate is correct, i.e. without these flaws, and without these, let's say, such improprieties, understatements. 'Cause it could mean something later. In court applications, different lawyers can kind of pick on the details and these improprieties. Hence the appeal to both the Sejm's and the Senate's leadership to adopt such a work formula to adopt such a procedure on important urgent matters. Yes, if the bill is that we have time to process, then let it go by normal mode, just like now. By the way, I thank Senator Szejnfeld and the opposition that they intend to adopt this law without amendment. The point is for the bill to pass as soon as possible so that the President can sign it quickly. Maybe by 24 May it will be possible to adopt some regulations on the basis of this law, so that Poland can already be protected from possible undesirable actions by those third parties who will certainly want to block the effects of this law. Thank you very much. I am in favour of adopting this law without amendment and I appeal to everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much, Minister, for your participation and your presentation of the government's position. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now there's going to be a change of marshal, so I'm asking for half a minute... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u218	Unfortunately, it is a change for the worse, which I conclude with regret, but also pleasure at the same time. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please return to your seats. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law. Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 108 and the report of the committee In print No 108 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Joanna Sekula, to present a report to the committee. All other participants, please remain calm and quiet. I am directing this attention towards the senators I am now looking at with sympathy. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Human Rights Committee and the Legislative Committee which have been sitting today. In addition to the senators, the committee was also attended by representatives of the government, in the person of Minister Marcin Romanowski, representatives of the police and the judiciary. Representatives of NGOs also arrived, including: Ms Renata Durda, President of the Blue Line Association. There were also messengers who were deeply lobbying for this law in the Seym. At the meeting of the committee, it was decided that the Senate should adopt this law without amendment after considering the amendment of the Law adopted by the Sejm on 30 April. The essence of this law is to solve a problem which has been the subject of various treatments for many years, and which concerns a situation where a family member, an aggressor, at the request of a victim, is removed from the common dwelling by decision of the court or is prohibited from approaching this common premises and its immediate surroundings. The bill is well written. The only controversy, in addition to the legislative amendments proposed by the senacci legislators, was the period of vacathio legis. However, at the technical meeting we held, we came to the conclusion that this six-month period of vacathio legis in a situation where there is a reference to many regulations in the Act... These regulations are to be prepared by the competent ministers, in this case the Minister of Home Affairs and the Minister of Justice, and they will be synthetically indicating the procedures to be followed by the police during the intervention. I recommend that the High House adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik for questions, and the senators in room 182 for Senator Victor Durlak. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. Are there senators willing to ask questions? At the moment Senator Jerzy Czerwinski came forward. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One minute to ask a question. Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'm just reminding you. Good. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, namely: is this institution, whose rather extensive name is the order to leave the occupied apartment and its immediate surroundings, or is there a restraining order to approach the apartment and its immediate surroundings, in law at the moment, or is it not? Because your report said there was already an institution. Or are we just introducing it into civil law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator of the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u223	This is an institution that operates in legislation. And what is clarified and what is introduced as a new institution is a ban that will, in a sense, continue after police intervention, which will be carried out at the premises at the request of the victim. And it's going to be an institution that's going to be kind of secured until it's decided.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. So it's okay, Senator... I'm just gonna ask you a little question. You're welcome, Pen Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u225	So does this institution already exist or not? 'Cause it's still... in a way permanent or not... Is that... Can you please just... Can you spend... Oh, is it possible to spend now? It'll be a simpler question. The provision in which it will be indicated whether the order to leave the occupied apartment, its immediate surroundings or the restraining order of the apartment, its immediate surroundings will be formulated? Again: is this possible now, by law or not? You just said yes, but there's something in there with the constancy of it... So I'd ask for a thorough interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u226	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u227	The courts in Poland can always issue such orders. But the essence of the change that is being introduced by this law is the time between police intervention and court resolution. This period is precisely defined as a 14-day period. In turn the court, when issuing the order, has a certain period of time of 1 month during which the order is issued, this security must be issued. So it's about the time that the perpetrator of violence, after police intervention, went back to the common premises. Given the senator's intentions, I understand that it would be a matter of not introducing something that already exists. But that's not what this is about. Besides, I think that these questions will be better answered by the representatives of the institutions who created this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there other senators who would like to ask questions? There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice, who is represented in our deliberations today by the Undersecretary of State, Mr Marcin Romanowski, has been authorized to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am again privileged to present a law amending the Civil Procedure Code. Perhaps briefly, in addition to the information already provided by the rapporteur, I will say that it is true that the purpose of this law is to introduce comprehensive solutions into the Polish legal order, which will allow for the rapid isolation of the perpetrator of violence from the victims of violence, from the household. This is to be served by changes not so much in the law on anti-violence in the family as just changes in the Code of Civil Procedure, the Police Act and the Military Gendarmerie Act. As far as the Code of Civil Procedure is concerned, here we are introducing a change in the form of a new type of separate procedure, which provides for a number of simplifications to speed up this procedure. It's actually an art. The 11th law on anti-violence in the family refers to non-trial proceedings. In the meantime, we're switching. It's kind of like, you could say, for a reference... We create a separate procedure so that these cases can actually be dealt with within 30 days and this is also a novelty, among others. by means of the possibility to carry out the service of letters through the Police or the Military Police. It is also an obligation to provide the prosecutor with a copy of the application. We anticipate immediate feasibility of the order. The time limits for granting the security and lodging the complaint shall be three days respectively. And second regulation, in the Police Act. This is the novelty that the Senator rapporteur indicated in response to the question. Namely, the project introduces a new entitlement to the Police in the form of a surrender to a person who is violent in the family and who poses a threat to the life or health of a person affected by the violence, an order to immediately leave the jointly occupied apartment and its immediate surroundings or a restraining order to approach the jointly occupied apartment and its immediate surroundings. These regulations regulate the police's procedures in detail. A similar regulation is also provided for in the Military Gendarmery and Military Orders Act. The Act introduces a new type of offence and provides for the detention of a restriction of liberty or a fine for failure to comply with the said order, prohibition or judgment of the court. The Code of Conduct for Offences provides for an accelerated procedure. The Civil Court Costs Act provides for the release of a violent person from legal costs. With regard to the law on the prevention of violence in the family, we are only introducing changes in the material conditions of the provisions, judgments of the courts I spoke about, in c.p.c. And the Police Act. The court's powers have been extended and adapted so that it is consistent with the new powers of the court and the new powers of the police and the Military Police. Some improvements are also being made resulting from the evaluation of the practice so far. In conclusion, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the need for this regulation is the result of an assessment that the existing legal situation is not effective. We want to improve the current situation by increasing efficiency, effectiveness, also in terms of general prevention, above all by the fact that the police are receiving a new real tool to combat domestic violence. Because effective action is really important to us. And the work of the Ministry of Justice is focused on this, on this efficient fight against crime, including pathology, and helping victims, victims, which is important for us here. And we are not guided here, ladies and gentlemen, by the ideology that is soaked, for example, in the Istanbul Convention, which was also mentioned at the committee meeting. Real action is important to us. Because, in fact, in our view, our legal system... And this law, which I hope will soon become part of the Polish legal order, actually gives a very high standard of protection. And in our opinion, I speak for myself here, but I also speak for the representatives of the Ministry of Justice. In this light, e.g. The Istanbul Convention is simply redundant. And it should be said in our view, because it does not introduce any value from a legal point of view as regards the standard of protection, and it only introduces harmful gender ideology, which is promoted by the LGBT environment, in our view. In our opinion, this is harmful to Poland. I would very much like to stress that it is important for us to introduce real tools, not ideologies, but concrete ones. It was indeed, as you rightly emphasized, very strongly advocated by different environments, and from the left, and from the right. We, as the government of the United Right, are just showing that these real actions are a priority for us and that we really want to fight domestic violence. And in our view this solution, this immediate police order, as well as other changes, are those solutions that give effective tools and make Poland really a country in which the standard of protection will be one of the highest. Also, as the Senator rapporteur said here... I would like to reiterate here the declaration that, indeed, despite the emergency situation and the fact that we have epidemic threats... Because I spoke with the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, MON, and I know that there is a readiness there to prepare the implementation of this law within 3 months, both for the adoption of the relevant implementing regulations and for the provision of training. In conclusion, let me say this: I think that this is a very necessary bill and we ask very much for it to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u230	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is the first person to ask a question that lasts no more than a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u231	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: how does this proposed law relate to our various obligations under international law? Would the Minister like to comment on that? I'm thinking here about different conventions or things related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u232	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u233	Of course Poland is autonomous when it comes to regulations. Our international obligations simply stem from regulation, from international agreements that we have adopted in the field of domestic violence. Of course, this falls within the scope of the Istanbul Convention, but, as I said, we go far beyond the standard that is required in this respect. If I may add something, maybe not directly answering this question, but referring to an international, legal comparative argument, I will say that such regulations apply in other countries as well. We modeled, as it already happened here, in Austria, as well as in the Czech Republic, where the standard is similar and these solutions work very well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u235	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for this law and, finally, for a serious approach to the problem, as well as for the hard work that has been done in 2016 and 2020 to draw up the relevant legislation. But I have a question. Because there has been an opinion of the foundation of Ordo Iuris and in this opinion there are certain... Of course, the Ordo Iuris Foundation does not question the purpose and purpose of this law, but presents some proposals for amendments to the Act, e.g. the introduction of an obligation to hear, as far as possible, a person suspected of domestic violence prior to the application of the measures provided for in the Act or the possibility to provide explanations without delay, not later than 48 hours after the service of the order or prohibition, to a person using domestic violence. Aren't these proposals worth considering, noteworthy? Are there any objective conditions that prevent the proposed law from being amended in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u237	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that such solutions are already envisaged, indeed, in our proposals. There isn't, as I recall, that opinion that the senator referred to... Indeed, there is no solution in our proposals that introduces a mandatory hearing of the perpetrator or violent person. This is due, for example, to the fact that very often this person simply escapes. But these solutions certainly indicate that such a hearing is possible, is envisaged as a means of proof, as a way of gathering evidence by police officers during intervention, as is the possibility of hearing a social worker, a curator. The police are not limited in any way as regards the collection of evidence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat the question which I have addressed to the senator, I will now ask it to the Minister. Is the institution of ordering to leave the occupied apartment and its immediate surroundings or the restraining order to approach the apartment and its immediate surroundings already exist in Polish law? Is this a new use of this institution, I don't know, as a preventive measure? I would ask you to make a very strict statement about this. The second question is related to this. Here, a police officer, of course, may perform certain functions of power towards the military, against the soldier. The question is: when is the verification of these sovereign acts by an independent court? I'll remind you that even the biggest criminal to be arrested can only be held... How much? 48 hours. And there's got to be court verification unless I'm wrong. What's it like in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u241	Thank you very much. I'll quote the current article. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 Family Violence Act: If a member of a family working together to live with his family violence behaviour makes it particularly burdensome to live together, a violent person may demand that the court obliges him to leave the apartment. This is the current regulation and it refers to the Code of Civil Procedure, to the proper application of non-trial proceedings. That's all I can say about the current regulation. What we are introducing is first of all a separate, particularly adapted procedure. I'm just saying that. For such cases in such a way that these cases can be completed within 30 days in a single instance, e.g. through the possibility of the police or military police serving letters. This is one change. The second, equally important, if not more important, is, as the Senator rapporteur pointed out, the introduction of a police order. This order is in effect... it will be in effect for 14 days unless it is complained, so it will be shorter, or extended. As a result of the judgment of the court, as a result of the guarantee. That is the term of the order. This is an order to leave the occupied apartment and its immediate surroundings. Here's this supplement, we're adding it to the immediate surroundings. And a restraining order against the apartment and its immediate surroundings. This is also added. To answer the second question, Senator, I'll say yes. The verification shall take place at the time when the addressee of the police order, or the prohibition, lodges a complaint with the court. The court will have three days to deal with this complaint. Moreover, it is similar in the case of detention, where we are also dealing with appeals at the request, not ex officio. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. The senator has an extra question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u243	Mr. Marshal, the others may not be additional, but others, however, related to the content of the bill. Namely, I am surprised by one thing: these are very far-reaching repressive measures. Because let's face it, throwing someone out of the apartment is sometimes more awkward than arresting them, even depending on the weather conditions... The question is simple: why is this done by civil procedure and not by criminal procedure? Because this is what I say is to be treated as a form of repression. I'm sure it's for the person who's being thrown out of the apartment. And a second question about it. According to the article. 15ab a police officer issues such a warrant or prohibition after questioning a person affected by violence in the family or by a probation officer Let's just leave it at that for now. And he may interrogate, as a witness of course, a person reporting violence in the family, because he is not always the same person who is a victim of violence, and he may interrogate as witnesses also other persons residing in this common apartment. And where's the interrogation of the person who's most guilty, which is... well, can he respond to the charges against her? I'm talking about an interrogation by a police officer, not in court, but by a police officer. Could this be a hypothetical situation, Minister? Maybe I'll simplify it. That there is a domestic disturbance in the morning, a man goes out to work, comes back after work and suddenly turns out to be evicted, in quotes, by a policeman for 14 days, I understand, at first, and he didn't know anything about it, and he wasn't interrogated?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. I will ask you very much to answer this question by the Minister and, I am not hiding, the intriguing alternative outlined by your senator, whether it is better to be free in the cold and in the rain, or free in the heat and without the rain. It's important... This alternative, I'm sorry, is slightly different: what means both repressions are being introduced. However, it is with curiosity that we look forward to hearing from the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u245	Thank you very much. I'll refer to the second part first, if you don't mind. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, Mr. Senator, this article you set up is talking about the possibility of listening to a person who uses violence in the family, mouth. 9. But it's not a duty, it's just an opportunity, right? Yes, of course. The police shall have the measures they deem appropriate in the event of a finding of the facts. It's always a police authority. Let me remind you that this is, of course, subject to judicial review. In the event of the court's recognition of the unlawfulness or non-enforceability of such an order, the court is required to notify the official supervisor of such an officer. Of course, police officers or military police officers use tried-out forms that are currently operating under the order of the Chief of Police to assess the degree of threat to domestic violence. And I don't think I'm gonna be literal if I say the police have a lot of experience with this kind of intervention. What we're changing is that we're giving a tool to intervene in situations where they're already intervening and I recognize this violent situation very well, you can have this tool to act effectively. As for the first part, why civil proceedings, it has also been repeated many times that... Of course, criminal regulations exist and can be applied, we do not exclude them in any way. We give, or rather we improve, because when we talk about civil law regulations, I remind you that they exist, we create a separate procedure, we improve these existing civil law regulations, because they are ineffective. In our opinion, they will be much more effective. and this court is confirmed by Austrian and Czech experience If there is a separate swift procedure and a police order. And civilian because violent people are reluctant to use criminal tools for various reasons, usually or primarily because they are afraid to apply them, they are afraid of some revenge, especially when after the 48-hour detention I will not judge what is more ailmentable After all, such a person can come home very often. On the other hand, they do not want to use criminal procedures, to initiate criminal proceedings against a loved one, though violent. Thus, for these reasons it is the experience of other countries, many years old, Austrian, we also want to apply in Poland, because in our opinion it will be more effective.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Senator Joanna Sekula to ask a question... I don't want to. There was a hand up earlier. I see. If the senator doesn't ask a question, I'll allow myself, Minister, to ask you a question, as a senator this time, not as a marshal. Well, Minister, before I ask them, it is very rare that we, representatives of the opposition, have praised the government in recent years, and even less often do we praise the Ministry of Justice. So I wonder why in this speech, a neat, honest speech, for which I thank you, there was an incomprehensible tour of LGBT and gender ideology for me. According to what I've been reading recently about active LGBT participants, they're rather concerned about what's controversial, walking around the city in a state of drug abuse, in a bathrobe, but they're not associated with violence, at least in the context of recent reports. How do you connect gender and LGBT ideology to domestic violence? Because, frankly, I don't see a relationship here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u247	My statement was about the negative assessment of the elements of this ideology that we believe are introducing into our legal system or trying to introduce it into the Istanbul Convention, e.g. in its Article. 12, which commands the promotion of socio-cultural patterns consistent with this idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u248	Minister, I understand your political views, and I understand them very well. However, I do not see the connection between anything you consider to be so-called. gender ideology, and the right fight you're fighting against domestic violence, in which I'm absolutely on your side. And I really thank the Justice Department very sincerely for taking care of this case and taking care of it, as we can see, thoroughly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u249	This is about the fact that people who... through our political opponents, if I can afford this kind of attention... You're a politician, Minister. That's right, exactly. ...very often these two circumstances are connected, aren't they? On the occasion of the fight against domestic violence is promoted, in my opinion, precisely this ideology. We don't agree. We think it's a mistake, that it's a fake... Not for religious, axiological or other reasons, but also, and perhaps above all, for prakseological reasons in our assessment of this type of diagnosis are wrong, and therefore also ways to counter these phenomena will be wrong. In my view, however, it may have appeared to a lesser extent among the senators, but as I listened to the debate in the Sejm at first reading, I was surprised to see that we are supposed to carry out such demands, and our regulations are actually fulfilling these demands, so I wanted to explicitly deny it. What we are interested in is the fight against violence, and in no way are we linking it with the conditions that are, if I may say so, diagnosed by supporters of this ideology.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u250	Thank you, Minister. I'm not doing polemics with the Minister. Thank you for answering my question. The next senator to ask the question is Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is registered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the following. Because I feel like we agreed at the committee meeting on a few points. We agreed that when it comes to direction, he's good. Yes, the perpetrators of domestic violence must be isolated. We agreed that this bill was not perfect and that she needed some changes. And we also agreed that it is worth accepting it as it is and then trying to improve it with common forces. And that was 8:00 a.m. today. I will anticipate a bit, but we already know that there will be a dozen amendments in this debate. My senator experience indicates that it may be that these dozens of amendments are an initiative of their own senators, but somehow this experience from the committee meeting does not tell me that. It may also be that the senators report amendments to which the government asks them to report them. You are a representative of the government, and you adopted a position this morning not to make any amendments, but at the same time a large group of amendments will be made by the senators who form your political background. How to explain such a change between 8:00 a.m. at 8:36 p.m. ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u252	Thank you, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u253	Thank you very much. I'll correct your statement, Senator. I'm not a decision-maker, of course. You decide. I signaled, of course, that we are ready now, and we were ready earlier for the 3-month vacathio legis. It's important in our assessment. But it's obviously your senators' decision, isn't it? But I'm supporting it, and I said it. Of course, every solution is, I think, good or very good. Nevertheless, in my view, it would be more appropriate to shorten the vacathio legis now. And if so, it was also appropriate in our view to make the technical corrections that were being discussed. Besides, they were not only reported by us, because I know that the Legislative Office also offered very similar to those submitted. Indeed, we have also worked on them today. I am very pleased that they have been notified because they give the honourable state the opportunity to make a decision. As I say, in our view, one and the other decision will be very good, but we have also prepared such solutions in order to be able to make this decision in a full range of solutions. But let me repeat once again: if it is possible, if you think it is appropriate for the senators, in our view, to complete this bill, to correct these minor errors, but above all to shorten the vacathio legis is a better solution. I also signaled that this is a possible solution, we are ready for it, but the six-month vacathio legis will give us more opportunity to prepare... Let me put it this way: better is the enemy of good in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister... We need to turn on the mike. Yeah, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I today, holding this committee meeting in the morning, thank you to the Ministry of Justice. I would like to repeat this: thank you very much. In these specific circumstances, it can actually be called a state of higher necessity when the pandemic has aggravated this problem, which has been growing for many, many years, you are presenting this initiative to us. I would also like to thank you very much, by the way, because this is a completely new senate secular tradition that the Ministry of Justice accepts and even praises the attention of our Legislative Office. There hasn't been anything like that in the last four and a half years. And by developing the question of Senator Libicki, I would like to ask them a little differently then. What happened between the Seym and the Senate that the conditions had changed and the state itself actually left with this shortening of the vacathio legis? Well, as far as I know, it didn't happen in the Seym. And by the way, this is very, very important to me, by the way, when you react so quickly to one pathology, I would like to ask you what you will do with the other pathology, which has also intensified in the pandemic era. I'm talking about something that's very much in my heart, which is parental alienation. We know that as domestic violence has intensified under these specific conditions of closure, the pandemic is often used to separate the child from the parent who has full parental authority but does not live with the child. This is given as a reason and it is very often a refusal to give up a child. I would very much like to know if you have an idea in this area, and you will act quickly, because this problem has become dramatically worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u256	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u257	Thank you very much. To answer the second question, I will direct the senator to the Ministry of Justice's side, where there is a position in this area. My answer might be short-lived, because unfortunately I'm not directly concerned with this subject, but I know that we were dealing with it. So that there is a position here and that judgment should be enforced. It is also possible to request a change in the case of a change in relations. Excuse me, I don't know the details of this case, but there's a position on the ministry's website. I know that at meetings with the Presidents of the Appeal Courts, Minister Dalkowska also discussed this subject and it was signalled. So that I think, despite these difficult circumstances, the Ministry of Justice, of course, was unable to intervene directly in the judicial activities of the courts, in administrative terms, to take action. This is the first case. Second thing. It has changed, Mr. Senator, that we have completed consultations with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Police Chief of Police, the Military Gendarmery and the Ministry of National Defence. In this new reality... It was also new in the sense that the Sejm's sitting was indeed such that the law was adopted quickly. I do not hide that earlier we were simply not prepared with this knowledge, whether shortening the vacathio legis is possible. Well, let me put it this way that yesterday late in the afternoon, speaking from the administrative kitchen, I already had the position of the Ministry of the Interior, according to which both the adoption of legislative acts, regulations and levers of training, as well as issues related to the preparation of statistical forms and procedures will be possible within this period of three months. It's obviously hard. It's not gonna be easy for us, it's gonna take effort. All the more reason to thank the police and the military police for standing here at the height of the task. I think this is another confirmation of the determination of the Government of the United Right to adopt this solution not only but also effectively implement it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such questions. First, what is the situation where the perpetrator of violence is the person who owns the apartment in which he lives with the person to whom the violence is committed? The person who lives with the perpetrator of violence has no record, no legal title or marriage. That's the situation. What happens then? How does it feel to have property rights when you can't get close to your own property? What happens then, e.g. with the payment of rent, i.e. utility fees for the premises, how do you own it? And second question. Please understand me well. I know from my senator's work very different conflicts. Often people on duty... I think that any of you, colleagues, could point out such examples. People often come with family conflicts, some history, issues related to family misunderstandings, especially with regard to wealth, but also others. And here's the question. It's coming up, for example. Some kind of game. Did you examine whether... Because there might be a situation where you use a friend of a police officer who's in some sort of relationship with someone, for example. to perform an extremely ill operation. As Senator Czerwiński pointed out, deprived of the possibility of housing can be an extremely serious inconvenience of life. What will be the procedure then? The point is to somehow cut off the possibility of abuse, let's call it the powers that these officers will have. I ask this out of procedural caution, because I also met with various situations during my Senator's work and Senator's on-call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u261	Thank you very much. If we are dealing with such a proprietary constellation, then our regulations will also apply. This is due to the belief that the question of property rights cannot prevail over life and health. However, we are not dealing in any way with deprivation of property, but with the temporary impossibility of using it. As far as costs are concerned, I would like to draw attention to the proposed article. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3, which is talking about the distribution of costs. In such a situation, the person who remains in the apartment will be obliged to pay charges for the maintenance of the property on the day-to-day basis, unless the person who applies violence to it is obliged to provide maintenance services. So if it's a baby, for example, it's not. To answer the second question... I mentioned this in part, speaking of the means of proof that the police will have at their disposal in obtaining testimony and explanations. It was also referred to the issue of notifying the officer's superior in the event of a revocation, determination of unfoundedness, illegality or irregularity of such an order or prohibition. So the professional responsibility of such an officer... I also mentioned the forms, the rules that we are adopting in the Act and we are detailing in the implementing regulations on the establishment of certain guidelines for risk assessment. This already operates in the Police, based on the order of the Chief of Police, since 2014 with regard to detentions. We also modify these solutions for the purpose of a police order. It is also important that police officers have very much experience in domestic interventions. They also have some knowledge, because very often these are not families, which are random, only families under regular district supervision precisely in connection with frequent cases of domestic violence. So here, first of all, an in-depth assessment of the evidence collected... Believe me, these regulations were really very carefully prepared together with the police, which is the institution of the highest confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u262	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u263	I would also like to ask you about this title of ownership. Well, if a person who is subject to such a warrant would like to, for example, To get rid of the apartment, could she or wouldn't she? And if she just wanted to hire someone to live with, just as part of... Yeah, for some reason. Could such a person, in the course of the application of this order, have done this as the owner of the premises or not? And that, of course, has some consequences. Well, if so. someone else becomes the owner of the place, it involves consequences for the person who just stays in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u264	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u265	Thank you very much. Yes, you're absolutely right. We here make absolutely no changes concerning property rights, rental, use or any other institution of civil law, property law or liability law. This also applies to family law. If we deal with a marriage that is divorced, then the normal rules on the distribution of the common assets or the distribution of the assets in general will apply here. So we're not interfering in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u266	Thank you very much, Minister. The next senator to speak is Senator Czerwiński, but if you, Mr. Senator, allow me to allow questions to be asked first by those senators who haven't asked them yet. And the senator will speak at the end. I would ask you very much to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u267	Minister, you said that. It may have slipped away in the discussion, so I would like to ask for a very precise answer. That the adoption of this law will render the Istanbul Convention redundant. We may have missed it, but we need to be aware of what we're talking about. This convention is a convention. Council of Europe on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Poland signed this Convention in 2012, ratified it in February 2015 and the President signed it in April 2015. It can be said that we have not entirely introduced it, because we have not taken economic violence into account as one of the forms of domestic violence. There's still a problem with that. Well, I ignore now that this convention also introduces a catalogue of new criminal offences, because in Poland it is not a problem. Let us immediately say that in Poland there is no problem of female genital mutilation or extortion of marriages. Well, we're already penalizing persistent harassment. I myself prepared these regulations as Minister of Justice So that's what I'm talking about. stalking. We have already introduced this into the penal code, but in some countries where there are religious minorities, there are still problems with sterilization, and that is why this convention is so important as a form of emphasis on, if I remember correctly, six countries in Europe that have not yet adopted it. And you, in such a loose form, inform us today that if we accept this document, the Council of Europe Convention will be unnecessary. Will the adoption of this document be followed by an initiative by the Ministry of Justice to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention as regards termination of the agreement? I'm asking for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u269	Thank you very much. Senator, it's not the Ministry of Justice that's right here, it's the Ministry of Family. I said this in the context of our assessment, our political evaluation, our assessment as politicians and as representatives... That's your political assessment, Mr. Vice Minister of Justice. In my view, this convention is unnecessary and should be denounced. I think I'm also expressing the views of other members of the Ministry of Justice's management. Although I didn't mean it. And I don't think that's how it sounded. That this will be a direct consequence of the adoption of this law. We have been expressing this view for a long time. In our assessment, regulations that are adopted in our country, national regulations... I meant that this law is just a good example of the fact that our standard of protection for victims, in this case because of domestic violence, is much higher than our international obligations require. My assessment is that we do not need such solutions, because they do not, in this sense, add value to the protection of victims, in this case domestic violence. And our political assessment, as I have already tried to answer Mr Marshal's question, with regard to a certain ideological layer of this convention has been, is and will always be unambiguously negative. I understand that some of you disagree. Senator's staring at me with her sharp eyes. But that's our view.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u270	Thank you very much, Minister. I hope that the higher chamber of the Polish Parliament, as well as probably the lower one, will be a place where no one will have to be ashamed of their views. And let's stick to that. The next question will be asked by Senator Magdalena Kochan. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u271	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I must say that, following the good words of the Ministry of Justice that have been prepared by this Ministry of Solutions, after listening to the Minister, I would like to withdraw all these good words. Why? Because, Minister, these solutions that you are talking about, which we are all taking very well here, do not conflict with the Istanbul Convention and they do not rule it out. If anything, we can boast even better than the convention provides for protecting victims of violence from criminals. I hope that the Minister was here expressing his personal opinion, to which he probably has the right, and not the view represented by the government on this matter. I don't think you have the authority of the government to present such a position on the Istanbul Convention. I will really stick to this faith and trust that it was a private view, not an official position of the government. Before I ask a question, just one more word or sentence about what my previous speakers said. I think it's much more annoying to run away with children, to hide in cages, or to look for a place in homes for single mothers than to be sick to the perpetrator of violence, which is to get him out of a place where he's very comfortable to live after he's moved out. In most cases, women are the victims of family violence. From this comfortable apartment his wife. I will say that when in 2010 we introduced solutions that today prove to be very long-lasting and very uncomfortable to apply, and even then we introduced the need to remove the perpetrator of violence from the occupied apartment in which he abuses his loved ones, some Members have challenged these solutions to the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that the right to a safe life, without endangering health and life, is an overriding right over property rights. So I'd be less worried about whether the criminal who's committing crimes on his loved ones is gonna have a place to live. That's his problem. We're not talking about a respectable person, we're talking about someone who's a criminal, and it's a criminal who's extremely perfidious, because he's bullying his loved ones in a place that should be a refuge for every human being. So let's not worry about his property rights, let's just worry about the conditions under which those who are harmed by him live. Minister, that's my question. Or at a time when there's a pandemic, when there's a need to interfere with the use of new, more effective forms of protection against victims of violence, procedures, and I'm thinking of a police order... Is the pandemic period a good time to shorten the time when they will be able to apply these procedures? We're banned from assembly, we've got a whole line... Well, I'm not gonna be the minister who's a lawyer explaining how many pandemic bans there are. Do you really think that three months will be enough to effectively implement these new instruments? Wasn't the minister today... It seemed to me that we participated in the same committee meeting, where Members, also representatives of associations, who have been fighting domestic violence for many years... The ladies agreed that we should accept these solutions that you have prepared today without amendments. And together, we made these decisions already at an informal meeting of the most interested, but in your presence. And we said that as soon as possible, we would prepare a meaningful revision of all these laws and laws, but now the point is for her to come into force. That's what we all care about. That is why I am asking the Minister to give a fair assessment of this, during the outbreak, we can effectively introduce new tools, training police officers and policemen to do so. And the second question is, doesn't the Minister think that if you made a promise, it's worth it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u273	Thank you very much. I haven't changed my mind. And now, and before that, I claimed And I'm confirming it again. That's possible. Of course, this is due to our findings with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. I also very much accept your proposal to accept this without amendments. In our view, this is a good solution, although I do not hide that if we had already adopted the three-month period of vacathio legis, then, I think, this would have been a better solution. But I confirm that both are good in the sense that we will finally have a regulation that will actually and effectively help the victims of domestic violence, which is particularly important now, during the pandemic period. I am aware of these difficulties related to training, very often remote. The police have committed themselves to doing it, and so will the Military Police. As far as the first element of the senator's statement is concerned, I agree with the fact that the Istanbul Convention does not conflict with this regulation. I didn't say we were dealing with a contradiction here. My thesis was only that in a situation where Poland adopts national solutions which are much more effective, the Istanbul Convention becomes somewhat redundant due to its ideological layer, which we Our group, our environment He treats it as harmful. As regards the view, in response to the question of Senator Kwiatkowski, Mr President, I expressed my view as a representative of a certain political environment, Solidarna Polska. I think it's also a view and a minister of justice, and other vice-ministers who are politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u274	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I promise this will be the last series. I have concerns, Minister, that this pendulum has gone or is going. At least for now, because this isn't the law yet. It's too far the other way. Just a little bit. I believe that this institution, i.e. this possibility of a certain mix of repression, which is rather characteristic of criminal law, civil law and, in this case, the lack of assurance in a fair way... It's not a matter of judgment, it's a question of whether or not it's true. It is about the justice that is applied, for example. in criminal law, according to which even the worst criminal has the ability to defend himself. In my opinion, a person who may be thrown out of his apartment by means of a warrant may be deprived of such a possibility of defense here. You may say otherwise, but I know life and I know different family situations that we also learn about in our offices. Well, I have a simple question: are you going to do anything? A nice word, modern, to evaluate the implementation of this law? What will be the real impact? Isn't she gonna be like... like a tool used before divorce proceedings, proceedings? And second question, much more serious. Namely, it is a matter of the Istanbul Convention. I agree with you. Perhaps I can be treated as the one who condones the crime... I mean, maybe not crime, domestic violence. No. Any violence when a stronger one uses its advantage and abuses a weaker one, whether physically or mentally, must be exterminated. And that is why I think it is good that Poland categorically condemns domestic violence, but at the same time gets rid of the ideological environs of our society. That's why I'm asking. This law has in its title words about violence in the family. Shouldn't this be called domestic violence according to the facts? Because it's not always directed towards the family. Can he simply return to the actual description of reality and, in a clear and categoric way, separate himself from certain raids, certain ideologies that are soaked from the outside, and in return, increase the real and effective aid for victims of violence?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. I will notice that the question was rhetorical in its essence. It was a political statement, an opportunity to speak which we will soon have in the political debate, in the debate. However, the Minister may, of course, comment on the matter raised by your senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u277	Thank you very much. I answer the first question concerning evaluation. Yes, the application of the law will be evaluated. Of course, we'll use it. here from the police statistics that will be carried out in this respect. I have also recommended the Institute of Justice to prepare for the evaluation in the form of anatrical research, empirical research, also qualitative, not only quantitative, in terms of statistics. Moreover, such studies were carried out at a preparatory stage in relation to this law. We had study visits, we had foreign visits, we had legal comparative studies, we also had focus groups, so quality studies with stakeholders. So I can guarantee that both in the preparation of this project and its evaluation, we apply and will apply the highest standards for knowledge-based activities. All I need to do is sign off on these assessments on the ideological layer or the Istanbul Convention. Well, as far as the concept of domestic violence or domestic violence is concerned, I don't want to open a discussion here. In general, I agree with the senator, but our regulation did not concern this law, we only amended it partially. We focused on procedures, just a functional aspect. The law does not belong to the department of justice, but is in the domain of the ministry of the family, so it would be like a misdemeanor out of the purpose which has been adopted in the field of this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u278	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u279	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am, too, well, not shocked, but deeply concerned about this possibility, which you clearly do not exclude that your government may wish to denounce this convention. This would be another step towards separating us from certain values around which Europe was built after World War II. And I think that even if you introduce comparable standards in this law, a certain pronunciation of the attempt to leave Poland or to leave this convention can cause a lot of damage. And it will only be another confirmation of the thesis about moving us out of a space from which I believe we should not be allowed to move out. In fact, it's hard for me to end with a question, because I don't even know how to formulate a question in such a way, but... Mr. Senator... Are you sure what you have said is shared by the other ministers, the members of the government that you represent right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u280	Thank you, Senator, but I can't help but notice, as was the case with your previous speaker, that your statement was a political declaration to which both your previous speaker and you have the absolute right, but not at this point. Nevertheless, by applying a fair standard to all the participants in our deliberations, of course, and now I ask the Minister whether he will give an answer to this declaration, as well as the rhetorical question of Senator Pociej. I suppose so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u281	Thank you very much. With pleasure, also appropriate to the scope. As I have already stated many times here, it was a personal declaration from me, as Vice Minister of Justice, as well as my colleagues from the Ministry, from the Ministry's management. Of course, I don't represent the government here, that's not the government's position. This should be requested by other institutions in order to be precise. So I think that's my answer. But I would also like to say that I very much disagree with the thesis of the senator, Mr President, that this ideological layer, which is present in the Istanbul Convention, is one of the deep heritage or deep roots of Europe. In my opinion, or in our view, it's exactly the opposite. This is a separation from those roots which are classic and combine subjectivity with natural human dignity, natural and inalienable rather than cultural and social gender. I don't want to be late, maybe. Although perhaps it would be a late time for such considerations. I would like to continue this or deepen it, but I would like to signal it, because in our view it is very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u282	Minister, whatever we call this debate, I'm sure it's interesting... Nevertheless, it is not now the place in our House. I ask you to ask Senator Joanna Sekula another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u283	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, there is such a short anecdote of Benjamin Franklin: if democracy is the situation when 2 wolves and sheep vote what they eat for dinner, then freedom is when a well-armed sheep undermines the outcome of the vote. We now have a situation in which we get the appearance of freedom in the form of a law which in one narrow section gives the advantage to the weaker. But today we learn that the whole vast sphere of civil liberties will be taken away, which is now clearly linked by me to the first action, which is punishment for conducting sexual education. So we're drawing from your words. Because, as I understand it, your voice is the voice of the government, not your personal voice, which you have repeatedly stressed. The fact that we are sanctioning today in this debate is that we are actually being deprived of our civil liberties. Because the indication that we will seek to repeal the Istanbul Convention clearly goes in such a direction that what is a natural freedom that we can derive from this Convention, in exchange for freedom at home, will be taken away from us. Is my thinking right, Minister, or... Calm me down, sir. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u284	Thank you, senator, for making a political declaration under the pretext of asking questions. And I will apply the same formula as twice before, assuming that the Minister will willingly take part in this ideological debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, we really touch the most important concept for the legal system: freedom. And I want to calm down. In our view, the termination of the Istanbul Convention would be an extension of that freedom. Because we release Poles for whom these values Or anti-values. That it is incorporated in itself is alien, by releasing from a certain indoctrination with which this convention is connected. This is a worldview dispute, Senator. This isn't about... I wouldn't want you here to label the views we represent. In our view this is an extension of freedom, that is giving Poles the opportunity to choose, not imposing a certain world view that is alien to us. Luckily, we have a lot of reservations. We have, above all, an interpretative declaration to the Convention, and this declaration states that we understand marriage as a union between men and women, in accordance with our constitutional order. But in our view, it's still not enough. I don't know if that's enough to answer such a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u286	Minister... ...but I'm gonna let it stop. ...really, believe me, it is very difficult to find answers to questions that are ideological questions, because the answers are exactly as many as the views on this matter. And let me repeat: the questions to the government representative are not even the place to hold the most fascinating ideological debate. But the performance is. But the speeches, which you rightly emphasize Senator Libicki, probably preparing us for his speech, of course this is the opportunity they give us. One final question will be asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Thank you. I'm giving up the possibility of asking a question. Thank you very much. The list of senators wanting to ask questions to the government representative has been exhausted. As I understand it, a government representative has also said everything he has to say on this matter. I therefore open the discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, who are in room 182, to Senator Victor Durlak. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your senators, who are participating in the meeting remotely, please report to the discussion via the chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating in the meeting, remotely - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. I ask you to speak at the same time as reminding me that the time is limited to 10 minutes by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not hiding that I have a problem with my speech. Initially, I planned to make a notification within my vote in the discussion of the proposal to adopt this law without amendments. And just so there's no doubt about it, I'm going to tell you what my reasons are: to adopt this law as soon as possible. However, this is due to the conclusion of the discussion at the joint meeting of three committees, where we discussed that each amendment was of course an extension of the legislative path. Because even the fact that it comes to the first sitting of the Senate immediately after the Senate does not, of course, mean that there will be a final decision. The truth is that there is no real guarantee that at this session the Sejm will consider the Senate's amendments, read: there is at least a certain probability I don't want to judge him because, of course, I'm not a fortune teller. That every amendment, even driven by noble intentions... For me, such an amendment, which is absolutely close to me, is an amendment which reduces the period of entry into force of these provisions from 6 months to 3 months... Why am I talking about this? We are in an exceptional situation of the pandemic of Coronavirus, common actions don't leave the house. There's a problem with domestic violence. One of the most common strategies This is described by all specialists, victimologists, one of the most common strategies of domestic violence perpetrators is to isolate the person they harm, from friends, family, workplaces. This action, of course, from the point of view of the perpetrator's point of view, is aimed at achieving full control of the victim and keeping her convinced that she is alone, that there is no way out of nowhere to help, that there is no one to share her problems with, no one to ask for help. And pay attention to the situation of the Coronavirus pandemic, in which the victims of domestic violence are alone at home with the perpetrator, that is, the situation aggravating those problems that normally occur in the case of domestic violence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We do not yet have an end to the pandemic in Poland, which is why I cannot, of course, recall here the statistics of what causes quarantine in the sense of domestic violence in the country, but we have these statistics in the international agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have e.g. official statistics from the Hubei province of China, that is the province that was closed in connection with the pandemic of Coronavirus, and its inhabitants were covered by the rules of a limited exit from the house. We've been dealing with doubling the number of domestic violence reported to the police... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I be so gentle... ...and the Chinese police statistics say that 90% of the reported domestic violence at that time was related to the outbreak of Coronavirus. Double cases, identify causes, 90% Staying home because of Coronavirus. Of course, China is not always the best example, it is not a democratic state. Although I will probably surprise you here that China is very liberal in terms of protecting the victims of domestic violence, I would very much like to say, good legislation, there is a system of court orders issued as a matter of urgency on violence concerning the prohibition of contact with the victim or the order for the perpetrator to leave his place of residence. But we have other examples. 1992, the United States, Florida, there we had to deal with hurricane Andrew and at that time when there was a ban on leaving homes, we also have exactly a 50% increase in domestic violence. Another example, New Zealand, Canterbury earthquake, 53 percent increase in domestic violence. What am I saying this for? In Poland according to police statistics in 2019 we had 166 thousand cases of domestic violence. Including about 400, 500 completed in the most tragic way, so that there is the death of the victim of domestic violence. For this reason, in my view, our responsibility as parliamentarians is to do absolutely everything to ensure that these regulations enter into force as soon as possible. I do not hide that I have a difficulty today, because on the one hand, I am very close to a proposal to shorten the vacathio legis so that these rules will enter into force as soon as possible, but on the other hand, no one • Mr Minister will also • today give us a guarantee that the amendment to this law will not significantly extend the legislative process. No one can make such declarations. Only those who could make such a declaration are Marshal Witek, who has an impact on when the legislative process actually begins, and 231 Members who can make a binding decision in this regard. And I do not hide that I am not yet able to make a rational decision in this regard, how to behave, because, as I say, so that there is no doubt about it, I think that really the project is well prepared. I like this project, only the more I'm a little surprised by the different circumstances that, I think, are unnecessarily starting to appear. We had a really common consensus on working at the joint committee meeting, and it seemed that this case and this work were going well. To say that we ourselves came to the conclusion in the course of the discussion that, after all, we can propose amendments to this law, and we agreed on a legislative initiative in this area, precisely because we have a vacathio legis. And we would quietly prepare a bill that could correct all these legislative errors, and all the more so in a moment such cool changes as shortening the vacathio legis. In recapitulating, I will say that I like the project very much and I fully support it. Domestic violence must be fought in Poland. On the one hand, this is a very important, very important problem, aggravated by the exceptional time in which we are, the pandemic of coritos and the mandatory quarantine for 100,000 Poles, and in part by recommendations and recommendations, and before that even by regulations on limiting or even not leaving the place of residence. On the other hand, there is a dilemma, what to do now with the amendments that have just appeared on the table, and they could quietly appear in the Senate legislative initiative, which would not interfere with the progress of the Senate's project going straight to the President's signature, and we would be convinced that this law is already in place and that we can improve it as part of the vacathio legis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a declaration that, so to speak, communication with Senator Czerwiński and Minister Romanowski. The state that has been with me since my first term in the Senate remembers that in 2015 I voted against the Istanbul Convention. I believe that there are various records there, which actually allow for the fight against domestic violence, but there are also provisions that I think the Minister has called ideological records for no reason. If I were asked whether to speak or not, I would say this way: I would like to read a report on whether my concerns, which in 2015, were in favour of my vote against this document, confirm whether they are true or not. I would personally make a decision after reading such a report, but so far, so to speak, I do not regret my 2015 vote and I do not withdraw it so that it is clear to begin with. Now on: I would like to say that domestic violence must be fought against - this is absolutely obvious. Firstly, I am pleased that, in this matter, this document, so to speak, is definitely heading in the right direction, and I have no doubt about it. Secondly, the thing that is important and which is to be noted is that, as I think it is rare in this parliament since many times already, there is a consensus about this. I will remind you of the vote in the Sejm: 433 Members were in favour, 6 against, 6 abstentions, if I remember correctly. There are few legal acts that would be adopted in such a way. That does not mean that, and the Minister said that at the committee meeting, there is no need to clarify and correct this document. I resisted, for example. on the opinion of the former senator, our colleague, presently the expert of our committee, the long-term probation officer, Senator Szymański, who pointed out two elements here, and this slightly refers to what Senator Czerwiński was talking about. Well, first of all, he said that if someone was taken from the house by the police, it would be worth a court ruling on whether the police were right or wrong, sooner than in the three-day period. Because, in fact, if somebody says so, they're gonna end up in the rain she was talking about, and after three days, it turns out that the police were wrong, it's not a good situation. The second argument that Senator Szymański put forward was that the police would in some way consult a social worker who might in some cases know more about the family than, for example, before making such a decision. a police representative. And as far as I know, Because Mr. Kwiatkowski told me this. In this meeting, the Minister presented, as I understand it, some technical problems that might be behind it. So here's the question for further debate. As far as the second issue is concerned, it seems to me that this consultation with a social worker may look different, but it may be based on a telephone consultation, after which a note would be made that such a consultation had actually taken place. And now, back to what was in our committee's meeting, I want to make it very clear that we have accepted I think, in a certain consensus. A certain way of doing things: here we are adopting this project without amendments, and then we will try it, as part of the Senate initiative, in some way within a short period of time. I think so. And I take into account both the course of the discussion at the committee meeting and the outcome of the vote, that this was adopted as a satisfactory solution to everyone. And I certainly do, but I do not know whether President Kwiatkowski also, although I think that he too... We would like to say that, however, we would like to talk about these amendments which would result from the opinion of Senator Szymanski. It wouldn't be today. I'm just saying this so we're clear. However, after the adoption of this document, in connection with the second document, acquiescing the document. That's the way I'd put it. So I'm a little surprised at the fact that here I am now hearing that there are a dozen amendments, and in any case there is a large package of amendments, so to speak, suddenly, out of the blue, like, regardless of this consensus in the morning. And now the question is... As I said, there are two interpretations of this. The first interpretation is that the members of the 3rd committee in 12 hours considered the matter and after these 12 hours came to the conclusion that these dozen amendments had to be tabled. A second interpretation That I agree to, having already 5 years of experience with the current government, is so... But I am not asking the Minister to answer that question. The other one is that there's been a difference of opinion within the government within the 12 hours. So 12 hours ago, we all agreed, with the Minister in charge, that it wasn't really the right thing to do. In addition to the matter of vacathio legis, it has been 12 hours and suddenly there are dozens or dozens of amendments. Well, it's hard for me to read it differently than the fact that there's been some disagreement within the government over the last 12 hours. I think so. That's how I interpret it. And I can say that I, but probably the majority of the committee, will stick to this original arrangement, namely the adoption of a law without amendments, and then a joint initiative aimed, so to speak, at drawing up the provisions of this document. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u290	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I will also make a declaration at the beginning, just as Senator Libicki made it: I also voted against the ratification of this Istanbul Convention in 2015. Here we are dealing with an interesting problem that has arisen on the occasion of this bill. Namely, in international law we deal with various documents of different rank, of different meanings, issued or arranged by different levels as a tribute to various international conferences I am thinking about population conferences, family conferences, conferences that extend the scope of human rights. Unfortunately, on the occasion of reporting these, sometimes well-founded demands, we are also dealing with a soft modeling mechanism for national laws based precisely on the policy of these conventions. That's what this is all about. If this can be compared to climbing That you stick a hook in the wall, you get hooked on it, then you get another hook in, and that's how you cross a path that would be insurmountable by other methods. And in this respect actually in these documents, often containing very valid, beautiful, wonderful declarations, noble goals, which must also be remembered... Often there is also an ideological or axiological layer under this coat, which in various cultural systems, different identities in different countries. I do not refer this to Poland, but I am talking about the global scale of it is assessed differently. So, Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Libicki. I, too, voted against, and I also share the views that have fallen out in this debate. But, secondly, I would also like to argue with Senator Libicki. Because, as far as I can recall the course of the committee meeting and the Minister's statement this morning at the joint committee meeting, the Minister said that he was in favour of shortening the vacathio legis of this law from 6 to 3 months, and as part of these amendments in this package, which we are about to comment on during the committee meeting, there is also a reduction in vacathio legis... In the package, one amendment... ...vacatio legis from 6 to 3 months. So, as the Minister said, there's every chance that this bill will come out of the Senate in its shape. Moreover, these amendments are legislative and regulatory in nature and correct certain shortcomings in the field of legislative technology. I would like to refer to this question in the contention of our discussion: what if the perpetrator of violence is the person who has the legal title to the apartment? Well, Mr. Minister, I'm concerned that I'm literally referring to the writing of an article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitution, which speaks about property, protection of private property in the Republic of Poland... In the mouth. Three is said... There, it is said earlier that the right to property may be limited by law, but in paragraph 1. 3 It is very clear that these restrictions must not apply to the substance of ownership. Does the use of your own apartment, which is mortgaged property, belong to the substance of your property? Obviously, it's the right thing to do. And I think this is a matter of thought and refinement in this law, because the person who owns the real estate... I ignore the noble dimension of being branded by the perpetrator of violence in some way, and sanctions are taken to prevent him from doing the horrible things he does. I understand all this. Please don't take this as a defense of this kind of behavior, of course not. I am merely drawing attention to a purely legal problem that I believe is present here. I would not like to start a discussion here, make amendments or take other such measures. I am merely drawing the attention of a government representative to a rather important problem in my view. Of course, I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u292	Thank you, Senator. And now Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, sitting in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. I, too, attended the meeting of the Legislative Committee this morning, and I was very pleased with this decision that my colleagues, Senator Kwiatkowski and Senator Filip Libicki spoke about. We have come to a consensus that the key issue is to complete the legislative work on this law as soon as possible. The State should act as soon as possible to assist the victims of domestic violence and wish that the President sign the bill as soon as possible. That is why I am in favour of sticking to what we agreed this morning, i.e. They adopted the law without amendments and then worked calmly to correct the law already in force. As for vacathio legis, it would be expected from all government agencies a clear declaration that before the expiry of 6 months and in case of shortening of vacathio legis before the expiry of the shorter deadline All implementing acts will be drawn up and technical and organisational measures will be taken to implement this law. But above all, let's stick to what we agreed this morning and make sure that the bill is signed by the President as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u294	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Rafał Ambrozik, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Ryszard Majer made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senators Marek Pęk and Marek Martynowski. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? Everyone. I'm declaring a recess... No, I'm not declaring a break. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u295	I would like to inform you that the joint meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals for legislation will take place in the plenary room 20 minutes after the adjournment is announced.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u296	Dismissed until 10:45 p.m. And I'm asking you to meet the Senior Convention immediately after the adjournment. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 44 to 22 minutes 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u297	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that during the break of the session, the Senior Convention was held. The Convention decided to extend the current meeting on 12 and 13 May. At the end of today's votes, the adjournment will be announced by 12 May. By 3:00 p.m. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Committee presented a summary of all the proposals submitted during the committee meeting. They are contained in Senate printing No 103 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. I remind the senators who vote remotely of the need to double-click the pass button or, on some tablets, its English version of the Submit. We are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Mr. Marshal... This is Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 48 against. [[Voting No 18]] The request was not accepted. In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Look out! Amendments 1, 2 and 3 should be voted on together. Amendments 1 and 3 aim to ensure that access to free medicines is granted not only to pregnant women but also during the period of childbirth. Together, we are voting on Amendments 1, 2 and 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 4 aims to ensure that the provision imposing an obligation on doctors and midwives to verify the quantities and the type of medicines prescribed to the recipient in the health information system only enters into force when the system becomes functional. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 against, 48 against. [[Voting No 20]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 21]] We're back on point four of order... Excuse me. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 107 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is in print No 108 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Joanna Sekula, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The decision of the joint committees is that we accept the proposal to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-06-senat-10-2.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the Senators Marek Martynowski and Marek Pęk submitted their conclusions. We're going to the voice room. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes against, 48 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. Let me remind you, we're not finished, we're taking a break until May 12th, until 3:00 p.m. Earlier, in the morning, the committees will be gathering. I'm declaring a recess until May 12th, until 3:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 57]]
