ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u1	Please take your seats. We should get started. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I open the third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Mariusz Gromka as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. The secretaries have already taken their seats. I inform you that the Sejm at its second meeting, on 20 December 2019: adopted part of the Senate's amendments tabled to the Act amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons and some other laws; rejected the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act amending the excise duty Act; adopted the only amendment notified by the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the first sitting, I state that the minutes of that meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first point of the draft agenda be considered, although the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws were provided later than that laid down in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators... There's a motion. Conclusion? But then, take it easy, Mr. Senator. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and consider it as item two of the agenda... I'd like to add that I've agreed to work with Marshal Witek. In the case of parts of the laws which came from the Sejm, I shortened their procession period and some of the laws will be considered at the meeting on 5, 6 and 7 February. I also propose to supplement the order on points: the Act amending the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and considering it as a point of the fourth order of business; the Act amending the Law on waste and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities and consider it as a point of the sixth agenda; the Law establishing the Polish Science Day and consider it as item seven of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There's no objection. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a request for a photo taken from today's agenda of item nine: the election of senators for the National Judicial Council. As you remember, I also submitted this request at our previous meeting. Arguments concerning the KRS, no two Supreme Court rulings in this case... It's like we're waiting for what's the final interpretation of the KRS. We would like to ask that the selection of our representatives to the National Court Register be held in a situation where we already have a full legal picture as regards the National Court Register.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u3	You're welcome, Senator Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, I'm against it. I'm against it. I believe that we should proceed with the selection of members of the National Courts. That is the competence, that is the law, but that is above all the constitutional duty of the Senate. According to the Constitution, we have two members on the National Judicial Council. The extension of this situation of non-imposition of the National Courts of Justice also raises certain problems in the work of that body, for example in a number of cases relating to the opinion of candidates for judges. You have repeatedly argued that there are problems with the length of court proceedings, there are staff problems in courts, and such proceedings, such obstruction in this respect only aggravates these problems. Therefore, on behalf of the Senators of Law and Justice, I ask that we proceed with the selection process, all the more so since this procedure is already underway. We followed this, the nominations of individual clubs were presented at the committee meeting, and they were given a positive opinion. I don't understand this contradiction of conduct. I believe that the Senate should not act as a Constitutional Court of Bis and decide which body and to what extent is constitutional and which is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Tribunal is also established in the Polish system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u5	But at this point, we're just talking about completing the agenda or changing the agenda. I understand the senator is objecting. Are there any other votes on this? Senator Ujazdowski. He can't. Maybe. Why? Okay, okay, There's a vote for it, there's a vote against it. If there's no such procedure, then... There isn't. There's a vote against, a vote for and a marshal manages a vote. There's no procedure. Yes, sir. In the face of Senator Pęk's opposition, we proceed with the vote on Senator Czarnobaj's request, which I propose that I remind you of this item from today's agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Skurkiewicz is coming. Wojtek, you still have a chance. You got a card? Attention... I can push... Well, on two hands? Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voting No 1]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Applause]] He didn't. Bravo! I state that Senator Czarnobaj's request has not been supported by the majority, and this point is therefore in force. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today at 7:00 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of point six: the Law on the amendment of the Waste Act and the Law on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities. Tomorrow we will begin the session at 10.00 a.m. after considering the point on information on the state of the Polish steel industry. To consider the seventh point, the Law on the Establishment of the Polish Science Day, we will proceed on Friday. In addition, I inform you that, following the preparation by the Senate committees of the draft resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people, the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy and the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation, the agenda may be supplemented by items concerning the second readings of these projects. We will proceed to these items on Friday, after the meeting is resumed at 9 a.m. The votes on the resolutions will be held immediately after consideration of each of them. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The text of the law is contained in print No 30 and the report of the committee In print No 30 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. I will begin by presenting the legislative proposals that were voted on during the committee's deliberations. The first one is Senator Marek Borowski's request to reject the law in its entirety. In the vote, the motion received 17 votes, 10 votes against, no abstentions. The second conclusion is the request of Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Robert Mamytkow to adopt the bill without amendment. This proposal will be the subject of a separate report as a minority request. By submitting a report to you, the High House, on the preparation of this law, it is impossible not to refer to the progress of the legislative process. The draft was submitted by Members on 12 December 2019 and was in Seym Printing No 69. The first reading was held at the second meeting of the Sejm on 19 December 2019. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights at a meeting where work on the project continued... The Commission discussed the matter on the night of 19 to 20 December 2019. On 20 December 2019, the committee presented a report proposing amendments to the Act, namely the addition to the preamble proposal, the amendment of the wording of certain provisions, including the replacement of the content of the article. 9d added pursuant to Article. 1 paragraph 3 of the Act, i.e. statements of hostility towards the other authorities of the Republic of Poland and its constitutional organs, as well as criticism of the basic principles of the Polish Republic's system of conduct, by words which undermine the functioning of the authorities of the Republic of Poland and its constitutional bodies, deletion of several provisions concerning criticisms made by the opinion-makers, and addition of new provisions: in the article. 1 in point 55 (a) b definition of jurisdiction of a judge; in Article. 1 point 35 (a) (b) the provisions concerning the jurisdiction of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court in matters relating to the authorisation of a judge to be held liable or to be held liable in criminal proceedings; Paragraph 4 (10) (5) of the provisions on the possibility for the President to appoint an extraordinary disciplinary officer to conduct a specific disciplinary matter by a judge of the administrative court or a judicial assessor. The second reading of the draft law took place on 20 December 2019 and further amendments were tabled at that time. Despite their submission, a request was put to the vote not to send the draft to the committee after the Members had been served with a table of amendments and, consequently, a third reading was immediately carried out. The Act entered the Senate on 23 December 2019. Opinions were submitted to the Act: Opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office of 17 December 2019, expressed at the level of work in the Sejm; Opinion of the Legislative Office of the Senate Chancellery; Opinion on the assessment of the Law under European Union law by Prof. Dra hab. Roberta Grzeszczak from the Department of European Law, Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw; opinion on the compatibility of the law with international obligations of the Republic of Poland prepared by Prof. Dra hab. Władysława Czapliński from the Institute of Legal Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Opinions of institutions and organisations were also submitted, among others. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Bar Council, a three-way open letter signed by the President of the German Bar Association, the dean of the Paris Bar Association and the Dean of the District Bar Council in Warsaw, the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Collection of Judges of the Regional Court in Przemyśl, the General Assembly of Judges of the District Court in Bielsko-Biała, the Association of Polish Judges, and the position of the District Bar Council in Warsaw, the resolution of the Assembly of Judges of Military Courts, the opinion of the Centre for Research, Studies and Legislative of the National Council of Legal Counsels, as well as the report on the assessment of the law under European Union law, drawn up by Dr. Robert Grzeszczak, the opinion of the Ombudsman and the position of the National Judicial Council. Given that this law was notified by a group of Members and therefore there was no fair discussion of the project, the participation of experts was eliminated, and the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office was not taken into account, civil society participation in the drafting of the bill was also eliminated since the first day after the Act was passed. The Act was passed to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The members of the committee took note of the opinions drawn up by outstanding experts and their presidents held meetings with civil society representatives, which were in the form of public consultations, such consultations as were lacking in the Sejm during the process of the bill. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union at its meeting on 7 January 2020 debated the political and legal consequences of this law. Mr Jacek Czaputowicz, who seconded the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the first President of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman and the author of one of the experts, were invited to the meeting of the committee. Representatives of legal backgrounds, including the Supreme Court, as well as former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, representatives of NGOs and environments involved in European affairs were also present. The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the first meeting at which the bill was debated, organised on 8 January 2020, with the participation of the Ombudsman, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, legal authorities, judicial associations, NGOs and the scientific community. During this meeting, the opinions of the Legal Office of the Senate Chancellery, scientific community opinions, legal representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Justice were heard. The second meeting of the Joint Committees was held on 14 January 2020, and the debate was an essential part of this meeting. The Senate also held consultations at a meeting held on 14 January 2020 of the Parliamentary Rule of Law Defence Team to which prominent representatives of the scientific community were invited, former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, representatives of the legal community and NGOs, as well as prominent representatives of the legal world from Western Europe, among others. from Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, who were asked to lay down the rules for appointing judges in their legal systems, in view of the fact that this legislation was invoked by representatives of the Ministry of Justice in all public debates. How did the discussion in the committees proceed, and what was the focus of the discussion? In the first place, attention was paid to the progress of the legislative process and the hasty procedure for adopting this law, as well as to the violation of the rights of the parliamentary opposition, both during work in committee and during plenary meetings. It should be borne in mind that the law was notified as a draft by a group of Members, although it is of a systemic nature. All laws, and such in particular, should be dealt with in accordance with the principles of sound legislation. The principle of sound legislation means, in particular, that those actors who are well prepared to participate in the drafting of draft normative acts should be involved. The created normative acts should be characterised by precision, comprehension, transparency and consistency with the applicable system of law, as well as compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This principle requires real public consultation on draft normative acts, taking due time to become familiar with their matter and to assess them. The creation of normative acts should take place with the active participation of legislative specialists, constitutionalists and independent experts dealing with the subject matter regulated in the draft normative act. The above-mentioned characteristics, which should be characterised by normative acts, in line with the standards of the democratic rule of law, are of fundamental importance in the day-to-day legal process. The proper quality of the law translates directly into the exercise of the subjective rights of our citizens and the speed and correctness of the recognition of cases in administrative, judicial and judicial proceedings. The principle of loyalty to citizens, which means ensuring that citizens are confident about their legal situation, in particular by respecting the rights rightly acquired and the exhibitions that have been created. This principle translates directly into an increase in citizens' confidence in the State and its rights, which in turn contributes to citizens' loyal conduct towards the State and the performance of their duties. The principle of legal stability and countering the so-called phenomenon. the inflation of the law. The instability of the law, carried out by its frequent changes, but also as a result of the publication of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal that eliminate rules that are incompatible with the Constitution from legal trade, not only hinder socio-economic life, but disorganise the pursuit of legal professions and adversely affect the legislative process itself. And there is one more rule of correct legislation - the principle of legal consensus on the issues at issue. Ideological issues should be regulated through broad socio-legal consensus, respecting the rights of all social groups. This is the only way in which sustainable legal solutions can be put in place, which also enable a rational development of society. Already in 2016, in its position on the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, the Venice Commission stated that the legislative process should be transparent and ensure public participation and that the project should be discussed in depth in Parliament, duly justified, presented to the public, whose representatives should be able to comment. It should also be noted that the opinion of the judiciary should be taken into account in the process of law on justice. Unfortunately, all these principles and recommendations were ignored by the Sejm. The discussion also drew attention to the fact that the law infringes the provisions of the Polish Constitution, namely: the rule of the rule of law, as set out in the article. 2 of the Constitution; the principle of legalism and the rule of law as set out in Article. 7 Constitution; principle of primacy of the Constitution, i.e. Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2) the principle of compliance with international law, Article. 9; principle of the division and balance of the authorities, Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1; the right to a fair trial before an independent, impartial and independent court, i.e. Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution as well as Article. 47 Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the European Convention on Human Rights; principle of primacy of the law of the European Union, Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3; the principle of direct application of European Union law resulting from the same article; the principle of autonomy and independence of courts, Article. 173; principle of independence of judges, Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1. The Act is also contrary to Poland's obligations to the European Union, it undermines the protection guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and thus challenges Poland's participation in the legal dimension of the European Union and the Council of Europe. Above all, however, this law will drastically reduce the level of judicial protection of individual rights. The law is, of course, directly linked to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019 in which the Court of Justice identified the criteria and procedures for assessing the independence of the judicial authority, such as the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, as well as the National Council of the Court of Justice as a body participating in the appointment of judges. In its judgment of 5 December 2019, the Supreme Court ruled that the National Court of Justice is not an impartial and independent body and that the Disciplinary Board of the Supreme Court is not a court within the meaning of national law and European Union law. In the State of law, such judgments should be executed without delay by the legislator. It should restore the independence of the National Judicial Council without delay by adopting constitutional provisions to appoint its members. It should also abolish the Disciplinar Chamber and have the same legal status as the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. It should rapidly establish constitutionally compatible mechanisms for verifying the status of judges appointed or promoted with the participation of the current National Judicial Council. Legal certainty should also be brought about as citizens cannot bear the consequences of incorrect legislative action, in particular in international trade. However, the majority of the Parliament, rather than leaning on those solutions which would serve the citizens and would cause them not to suffer negative consequences, either now or in the future, not only to take note of decisions but also to adopt a law which grossly violates the European Union's legal order. Right to court and fair trial, guaranteed by Article. 6 The European Convention on Human Rights can only be guaranteed by ensuring the independence of courts and the independence of judges. The solutions adopted in this law seek to prevent both the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the judgment of the Supreme Court from being enforced. The proposed solutions tend to force the execution of EU commitments by means of an unacceptable mechanism of pressure on judges by creating fear of the loss of a judge's position. The legislator intentionally shaped the system of disciplinary liability in such a way as to use it as an instrument of political control over judges, which is the subject of proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, initiated by the European Commission under Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; Case C 791/19. In the course of the discussion, the votes of the Senate opposition have appeared several times, both in statements and in questions to representatives of the Ministry of Justice, challenging the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union has given an effective ruling in the Polish legal system. Questions are not wrong, they may result from misunderstanding of the principles of functioning of Poland in the legal system of the European Union. However, the answers to these questions not only did not explain these issues, but also raised doubts, and from representatives of the Ministry of Justice, who, as was granted at the committee meeting on 14 January 2020, participated in the work on the law, precise, factual and truthful answers should be required. Such as that Poland joined the European Union and in accordance with Article. 90 of the Constitution gave it the appropriate powers to act, which resulted in European law becoming part of the Polish system of law, in accordance with Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. These principles were confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 11 May 2005 in Case K 18/04: in conjunction with Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution, European Union law takes precedence over the law of a Member State. What does that mean? It is precisely that the national court, which also applies European Union law outside national law, must ensure that European Union law is applied without prejudice to national law. The Court of First Instance is required to waive the application of a national provision contrary to European Union law. Moreover, such a duty is not only for the court, but for every state body. The Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union signed it on 13 December 2007 by President Lech Kaczyński, and ratified on 10 October................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So Poland has an obligation to execute judgments of the tribunal. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is binding not only on the national court of the State in which it was delivered but also on other courts in other countries of the European Union. This is of great importance for the situation of the Polish citizen in the international arena. During the discussions, representatives of the Ministry of Justice repeatedly referred to laws in other countries of the European Union, but the discussion with experts from these countries indicated that the provisions they referred to were removed from the context of the entire legal system and that judges in these countries have the quality of independence ensured under European Union law. It is necessary to take into account not only this law but all the measures taken in the justice system since 2015. Only the sum of the actions taken in this area shows the extent of the non-compliance of these regulations, as well as the destruction of the rule of law in Poland. In the opinion of the committee, the effects of the law's entry into force will be extremely severe for Poland. The possibility for the European Commission to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union against Poland must certainly be borne in mind, but attention must also be paid to the non-legal consequences, such as the further ongoing isolation of Poland, the public's exposure to the loss of aid payments from the European Union, the further weakening of Poland's position in the Community, economic, legal and political isolation and, consequently, the threat of security. Polish citizens in the last 15 years have forgotten how it was before. Polish citizen, if this law enters into force and is applied in Poland, will no longer be able to be sure that the sentence given to him in Poland in a dispute with a citizen of another European Union country will be respected abroad. This includes: entrepreneurs, but also ordinary citizens, who are married, who raise children. This applies to the movement of documents, the determination of the acquisition of inheritance, the effectiveness of notarial acts or civil status records. I am no longer talking about a European arrest warrant, which is automatically enforced between countries of the European Union where there is no doubt about ensuring effective judicial protection. Polish ENA has been subject to specific control for some time. The law is entirely suitable for rewriting and, for the reasons indicated, the committee voted to reject the law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u7	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Mark Pęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a motion from a minority of Senators of Law and Justice to adopt a law without amendment. First, maybe a few comments on the committee's work on the meeting that took place in two... It was one session, adjourned, so it lasted two days for hours in total. At this committee meeting in my opinion, there was very little substantive discussion of the senators themselves. In fact, the main actors, especially the first part of the committee meeting, were experts, lawyers, corporate members, representatives of doctrine, who, to my surprise, spoke at a very high level of generality. I have noticed in general that when we discuss the status of the judicial authority, with a very high, autonomous status of the Polish judiciary, then in the opinion of the lawyers everything is clear, everything is transparent, unambiguous, nothing requires clarification and interpretation, while in all other areas of the lawyers, you can say, in principle they live from the interpretation of the law, from the interpretation of the law. There's a couple that lawyers learn in their freshman year: there's no right before interpretation. That's my first point. When it comes to defending this empire of judicial authority, lawyers act in an incredibly clear way, in a way in which there is actually no room for discussion, no subtleties, no maneuvering one way or the other. These matters are not so clear, and this was also shown at the committee meeting, above all by government representatives who, in our view, have made a very credible and substantive justification for what these matters are like in other European countries. The basic conclusion that there is no doubt is that, in accordance with the European Treaties, matters of justice, matters of the judicial system are reserved for the competence of the Member States. There is no such thing as a European single model of justice and justice in the European Treaty. And since there are no options, there are some options and there is a scope for each state to shape this system according to its will, according to the will of its sovereign legislators. This is also the case in this law, and not only in this law, because the reform of the judiciary was also examined in the previous term by the majority of the Law and Justice. We have the right to a Polish model of justice, we have the right to a Polish model of disciplinary liability of judges, with 2 aspects in mind. The first one is constitutional. And speaking of this compatibility with the Constitution, I would like to stress very clearly that in our opinion we do it in such a way as to preserve the independence of the Polish judiciary, the independence of the courts. This argument that this act destroys independence or eliminates the independence of the courts is unfounded. I would say more strongly: it is deeply demagogical and purely political and propaganda. That's what putting such a very heavy section against the rules, which I stress once again. They also appear in one form or another in other European legislation. This charge, which was also raised by your marshal, that when we talk about solutions in the Member States, we miss the truth, is also harmful to me, but regardless of how it is, we do not give these examples to legitimize our laws in this way, saying: we do the same thing in France. We are talking about certain directions, some principles, some general or adopted solutions, which, in short, are all about the fact that regardless of judicial independence, which I stress once again. It is absolutely top priority and undisputed, there are certain aspects of the functioning of the judicial authority, which can also be regulated with the participation of the legislative and executive authority. We can say that, as a rule, we have a mixed system in Europe. Nowhere in Europe does judicial authority act as autonomously as you would. They wanted and how they would like to see this law at the committee meeting. The removal of the Polish judiciary from the system of division of power understood as a check and balance system, i.e. this penetration, inhibition, mutual control and balance, is incompatible with the constitution. There is no such thing as the Supreme Court in Poland. The judicial authority is one of three equal powers, not overpower. We have democracy in Poland, not judges. And I'm very emphatic about that. And actually, our reform mostly has to face this myth all the time. As for the details... This law was also one of the frequently raised charges But it was not some malicious whim of Polish Members or Members of Law and Justice. This was due to a specific factual and legal situation in which the justice system in Poland was found. The judges began to question the status of other judges. I personally believe that this is the mortal sin of the judges... Let's not overreact. But we weren't interrupting... Senator Fedor, please... Fedorovich. But let's not overreact with this sin because... I'm just saying what I think I'm saying. Mr. Senator, you're the committee's rapporteur. You will be able to speak freely in the discussion. Of course, I'll let you talk, but I'd like to focus on the committee's report. All right, Mr. Marshal... I thought you were gonna draw your attention to a senator who's bothering you. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, I'm saying what I think was a thought shortcut. I am trying to express the opinion of the Senators of Law and Justice, the members of the committee who took part in this committee meeting. So I'm going back ad rem. I believe that this state, which we had to deal with, that suddenly judges will usurp the right to judge the status of other judges, and enter into the discretionary constitutional powers of the President of the Republic, who has an absolutely decisive opinion here, is simply threatening anarchy in the Polish state. And for this anarchy, we couldn't agree on it, which is why we've tried this bill. As for the values and overarching objectives that were at the heart of this law, it is best to describe them as a preamble, which may be worth mentioning here at least in part, because there are very important criteria, such as the sense of responsibility for the justice system in the Republic of Poland, the need to respect What I was talking about just now is the principle of dividing and balancing the authorities resulting from the article. 10 the Constitution, respect for the values of the democratic rule of law and the independence and apoliticity of the courts. And here we come to the next group of charges concerning the apoliticality of the judges. And here again, I believe, the arguments of the opponents of this law are deeply disproportionate to what is contained in the law. The principle of apoliticity, as shown by the Minister and the representatives of the Ministry, is a commonly accepted principle of European judiciary. In addition to independence, the apoliticality of the courts is also undisputed. And here, interestingly enough, we are dealing with a very large variety of regulations. There are countries where judges belong to political parties. And you raised that as an argument against us. Well, you can also use the argument that belonging to a political party undermines their independence, right? Here is a very wide area for discussion and to look at these regulations. And every legislator has the right to look at it individually. It seems to me that, in the Polish legal system, the question of belonging to political parties would raise very wide questions, including the judges themselves and legal environments. This apoliticality has also been questioned very strongly by the judges in recent times. And that is also, you can say, the basis of this law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the scenes we've been watching, when there's an accused ex-Senator at the strict anti-government demonstrations, and there's a judge next to him who's ruling on his case... And the fact that they're all making statements about a very strong political load... But so what if he's standing? It doesn't make any sense. ...is an obvious... That's not in the report... ...is an obvious violation of the principle of apoliticity of judges. So this is another team of issues... I understand that the subject was raised on... Yes, he was one of the most important aspects of the substantive commentary or criticism of this law. And here I come to the third, I think the last aspect of substance. It is about disciplinary action. Disciplinary action is also strongly criticised. In our view, it is fiction in the current legal state. There is such an anecdote in the legal environment that disciplinary actions against judges were divided into unfounded and, of course, unfounded. And that raises very strong social opposition. In the public opinion, the judges are As they themselves, unfortunately, speak of themselves as an extraordinary caste, functioning in a sense of absolute impunity. And this is also a state that is incompatible with the constitution and which needs to be settled. To conclude, I say this: I believe that this law is needed, it is necessary. There are some features and principles that are in line with what we see in European order. We have the right to shape these principles according to the Polish judicial model. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u10	Thank you very much. A word to that recital that Senator Pop so commended. He said she's actually an exponent of what's good about this bill. Yesterday I drew attention to the failure of this recital, which makes it longer than the preamble to the Constitution. But I'd like to... Excuse me, Mr. Senator. That's the question. To me? Because I don't know if it's for me. If so, I'll go to the podium. You didn't specify who the question was addressed to, and... I'm asking you a question for the senator. Mr. Senator, as I was taught, not what's in the preamble is what the spirit of the bill is, but what's in it. And I would like to say that I have here the following text: in fulfilling the will of the Polish people and in accordance with its vocation, the Legislative Sejm of the Republic of Poland formally adopts this Constitution as a fundamental law, which the Polish people and all authorities of power should follow, fulfilling the will of the nation... This is the preamble to the 1952 Constitution of the Polish People's Republic. Mr. Senator, it's not that... I mean, once again, the preamble doesn't say what the content of the bill is. And if this preamble says it's some sort of improvement, that it's... Mr. Senator, ask me a question. Time! Let me ask you a question. Three minutes. Then tell me... Time! ...tell me... Please refrain from commenting. We're measuring time. Tell me... Sorry it took so long. Please tell me why the Supreme Administrative Court, in its analysis, in point 7.1 of its opinion, stated that it is a mistake for the legislator not to see the specificities of the administrative judiciary arising, in particular, from the tasks of this judiciary. After all, this 1/3 sentence was said against decisions by public authorities. It's analyzed there. The legislative authority in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure is incompatible with the principle that, first and foremost, administrative judiciary should be excluded from any influence of the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u11	Good. You're the question as if you've divided into two elements. You asked me a precise question. I believe this case was thoroughly explained yesterday by a representative of the Ministry. I'm not gonna go into that detail because I'm sure the Minister would do better than me. I thought yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Minister decided that there was a misinterpretation in dispute with the representative of the Supreme Administrative Court. It's not unusual. I would have referred more to the first part of your question. This reference to the Peerellian Constitution is also one of the propaganda tricks that the state at the committee meeting strongly applied. It is also reflected in the opinions of the legal community, in particular in the opinion of the Warsaw Bar Association, which uses such a very pathetic language. This is not a legal opinion, but rather a form of political manifesto. During this difficult time, during these difficult days, on December 13 of the year memorable, these are hurtful references to totalitarian times, to the communist system. There's nothing in this bill that, in my opinion, would be a currency of communist regulations. On the contrary, this bill goes across the street... preventing what paradoxically could happen if we continued this system. I'm talking about questioning the status of judges. The Minister has already repeatedly shown that the status of all judges could be questioned, including those who were elected in the time of the deep Polish People's Republic. I believe that we should go down in this debate and return to the content of legislation from such a very emotional and very harmful propaganda. The good of the nation is also somehow reflected in this law, because it is certainly in the interests of the nation that we have not only a functioning, fast, modern judiciary in Poland, but above all a fair and fair judiciary. I'll give you a reference here, Mr. Senator. I propose to look at the whole range of issues related to Warsaw's reprivatization, where everything was done according to the law and where the legal environments did not tear the robes apart over how justice was broken.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u12	Thank you very much. Correct one thing. In corrigendum mode. Briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u13	One sentence. Mr. Senator, I didn't compare this recital to the preamble to the Constitution. I just wanted to show that it could be that there's something written in the preamble, and the content is different. That's all. I wasn't comparing you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u14	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Klich a question. I remind you that these are questions to the rapporteurs of the committee and their answers. We are also scheduled to present a representative of the government, the speeches of invited guests and the plenary debate. Mr. Marshal Pak, the debate has not begun yet. For now, we're at the stage of questions and answers. Mr. Senator Klich to see Senator Burns.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u15	Mr. Senator, I think it's fundamental. We differ in the assessment of what the Senate should and should not do. In my opinion, it's an obligation. Not only is it a right, but it is the duty of the Senate to consult widely whether they come from the Sejm or are their own legislative initiative. It is our duty to listen to the voices of experts. It is our duty to ask those who are involved in the matter, or social environments. It is also our duty to listen to those voices that come to us from the academic community. You said that the main actors at the meetings of both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Legislative Committee and the Human Rights Committee were not senators, but guests. It is good that they were, Mr. Senator, because you could and your colleagues could hear what those who have authority on this matter, those who have knowledge and skills, and what most Poles think. We gave you the chance to hear the voice of experts, academics and involved communities. Mr. Marshal, it's not a debate, it's questions and answers. Questions. That's why I want to confirm to you that this is going to continue, whether or not a minority wants it. And I'd like to ask you if this is an incidental opinion of yours, an incidental opinion of this bill, or if you'd like to continue blocking voices coming from expert and academic backgrounds to us here in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u16	Mr. Senator, my first point is that I only expressed my opinion on what this committee meeting was like. I am a fifth year senator and I already have a point of reference, I know what committee meetings look like, and yet I think, with all due respect to experts in the Senate, that the lead vote should have sovereign, elected by Poles senators. This is case one. Secondly, the Senator's view is very debatable, which says that those environments which so strongly broadcast the tone of these meetings are representatives of Poles, in the sense of a broad reflection of the public opinion. These were primarily legal environments, corporate members, directly speaking representatives of the judiciary on their behalf. I didn't see there, for example. representatives of associations or victims of justice, such as victims. I recall this on purpose, because perhaps a clearer example than the reprivatization in Warsaw of this judicial harm and injustice under the auspices of the justice system cannot be found. And because, as it were, you are overwhelming us with these unilateral, certainly professional, but presented from a certain point of view with legal opinions, does not yet mean that we cannot agree with them diametrically and do not take them into account, as long as we are senators who hold a free mandate, chosen by Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u17	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, there's a minute to ask questions. Senator Fedorovich to see Senator Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I just want to remind you that last year you defended the IPN Act and the consequences were dramatic for the government, Prime Minister Morawiecki had to drive, etc., even though I warned, as rapporteur for the minority, that the act was completely to waste. But it's just for starters so that this youth can find some knowledge from experienced people. Just a little bit. Explain to me, to me and to the citizens, because, of course, I am not a lawyer and my knowledge of the senator is based on the legal authorities who probably also taught you on our university, how it is possible that a law of a systemic nature can be adopted in this way, by a group of Members and without consultation. It's against the law. That's one thing. Of course, you were trying to say that the judges violated discipline, but what you said was completely legal nonsense. And secondly, explain to me how I'm supposed to introduce to my constituents the fact that the bill violates I'll give you an article. 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 45 constitutions. How are voters supposed to understand that anyone in favor of something that violates the constitution can vote? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u19	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u20	Mr. Senator, well, I don't know how you're supposed to explain to your constituents that something is against the constitution until this non-compliance has been established by a competent and appointed body, the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I know that the state of each of our arguments is trying to cover with this giggle, but in a political sense, the very important context of the adoption of this law is also that both the state as politicians and a large part of the legal environments you are contesting the Constitutional Tribunal. This whole procedure of preliminary questions also showed the paradoxes involved, because de facto the issue of constitutionality, because of this omission, tried to decide the Supreme Court. These are very complicated and potentially very crisis situations that I, as a senator, refuse to accept. And that's why I support this bill. If this bill is signed as such by your President, there will be nothing to prevent you, Senator, from referring it to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much... For now, it uses the presumption of constitutionality, however you curse reality. But there was a question about a bill of government that shouldn't... Oh, right. Mr. Senator, it's going to be a little difficult for me to refer to the procedure of the Sejm. I can refer to this not in terms of procedure, but in terms of what I saw at least during the broadcast, when the Members of the opposition consulted before the committee meeting, whether to act like... or on the whole drive, i.e. torpedoing the work of the committee. You know what the working atmosphere in the Sejm is like. Sometimes there's really an atmosphere out there that doesn't allow any substantive discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. Who are you asking the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u22	My question is for you marshal, Senator rapporteur, if you don't mind. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I've consulted these questions, Senator rapporteur, with the lawyers of your generation, because I'm not a lawyer, and I have a habit of... I don't know everything, and if I don't know anything about it, I invite people who know it. My first question is this. The Minister of Justice will have the full discretion to extend the term of office of the judge and will thus be able to refuse, for example, the right to remain silent. a disliked judge's right to work after reaching retirement age. In your opinion, Senator, Mr. Marshal, will there be strict rules, or will this be merely the will of the Minister? In addition, I would remind you that, however, as well enshrined in the Constitution, judges are inextricable. That's my first question. My second question is: what exactly will the Minister of Justice, according to your knowledge, understand by persistent failure to perform his duties? Is it possible to have a particularly low efficiency of administrative surveillance activities or e.g. the organisation of work in court or in lower courts, what will be the basis for the dismissal of the President or Vice-President of the Court also during the term of office? And my last question. Within six months of the entry into force of the Act, the Minister of Justice will be able to revoke all the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the General Courts, including without cause, and to appoint others, new ones themselves. How will the independence of the courts be guaranteed, as you know, for this point, and how is this to be done with the three divisions of the authorities? This is a violation of the Constitution, according to lawyers at your age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u23	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I cannot address this question in detail, because it would be necessary to ask the Minister's representative how the Minister imagines these criteria, but it was indeed the subject of discussion of this catalogue in the article. 107 on disciplinary responsibility. I would also like to say here that it is a misunderstanding to treat these rules as particularly vague and impossible to interpret precisely. Such terms as a failure to respect the dignity of the office, an obvious and gross insult to laws or actions or omissions which may prevent or significantly impede the functioning of the judicial authorities appear in legislation and the role of case law, the role of legal doctrine is to give them some interpretation content. Once again, I stress this: everything is a matter of interpretation, but I do not think that the catalog that we have in this final version of the law is some particularly vague and complicated, and additionally some particularly extensive one. Here I am returning to yesterday's meeting of the committee at which Minister Warchoł presented very extensive catalogues of disciplinary delicacies in European law or in the legislation of the Member States of the European Union, and there certainly also doctrine, and case law, and a certain custom, and practice clarify these criteria.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Ujazdowski has a question for the senator, Marshal Pęk and the Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka, so that we ask you very much the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u26	In fact, I have two questions for your Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka. First. The core of this draft law, adopted by the Sejm, is the willingness to apply sanctions against judges for judgments concerning the status of judges or, strictly speaking, the procedure preceding the request of the KRS to appoint a judge and the President's own decision, the act itself. Can your marshal say whether the practice of applying similar sanctions in European Union countries has been revealed during the legislative process in the committee and has there ever been protests in other EU countries for this reason? And question two. After yesterday's explanation of the government, can we assume that the government interprets this law in such a way that disciplinary sanctions can be applied for assessing the legality of proceedings before the NRA prior to the proposal, although in the key article of this law, Article. 42, is there no reference to the procedure taken by the National Courts of Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u27	Thank you very much... There is a contradiction between the establishment of delicts and the article drawing up a provision on the material side. Thank you very much, Senator. Mrs. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u28	In general, questions were asked at committee meetings regarding disciplinary punishment of judges and all representatives In particular, it was Germany and France, as these countries were most often referred to by representatives of the Ministry of Justice. They made it clear that there was absolutely no such situation and that the judges in those countries were responsible for the gross violation of the law, and this is a basic measure. And in general, in any situation where there is the case law of a judge, when a judge gives judgment, a substantive judgment, there is no disciplinary responsibility. And despite what happened last night... Because yesterday in the committee there was also a discussion on this subject and the Minister made it clear that the question for a preliminary ruling is a judge's duty, if he has doubts about the interpretation of EU law, and that absolutely for such questions the judges will not be punished. The Minister was not able to address these examples which I gave, they were a little earlier, but today I can still point out that immediately after the Court of Justice of the European Union's ruling, the three-member Court of Appeal in Katowice also asked the Supreme Court a question for a preliminary ruling concerning one district court judge on a case which the Court of Appeal considered. And here, too, there have been requests for disciplinary action against these judges, as well as requests to the prosecutor. And that's the worst part. Attention needs to be paid During the work in committee it was also claimed that on 16 December, i.e. even before the adoption of this law, from the Ministry of Justice... The national prosecutor sent such letters to prosecutors regarding, you might say, the monitoring of cases where judges question the effectiveness of the appointment, the appointment of other judges by the National Judicial Council. Although that bill hasn't been made yet. So basically these actions were kind of out of practice. With regard to the article. 42... This article was also discussed because the judges of the administrative courts pointed out that in general their duty to control... Because it's not just a matter of court. It is unacceptable to challenge the legitimacy of courts and tribunals, constitutional state bodies and control and protection bodies. And in a situation like this... Just one third of administrative court cases These are cases where these courts are currently controlling the power of state authorities. And in general, this provision could lead to any repeal of the decision, even the minister, of the voivodeship by the administrative court, being liable for disciplinary action. The question of this article. 42a looks just like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u29	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Brejza a question. I still have a question for Mr. President. I've called it in. Oh, I'm sorry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u30	It's for the senator. I wouldn't ask that question if it wasn't for systematic reference to French patterns, of which... Senator's, right? Yes, to see the senator. I don't think General de Gaulle would be overly pleased. I would like to ask because this issue appears in your report. Can you tell the High Senate whether the representation of judges and prosecutors at the Supreme Court Council of the V French Republic elects prosecutors and judges with the power of free corporate decisions, whether they are appointed by the Minister or by Parliament?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u31	Well, unfortunately, I'm not gonna answer that question. I'd have to have a study in front of me. I'm not an expert on this, I'm more saying it was the members of the government who referred to the French model. They make this decision, they choose by their own corporate decisions. And that's why I'm asking you not to use Western or alien patterns unless you have full knowledge of it. Okay, but, Senator, if you don't mind, I'll just... Do not engage in dialogue... No, no, I'm just gonna answer... Please answer briefly. Yes, very briefly. I'm really gonna say what I said. It is not that we refer to the French rules and say that we want to do the same. We have the right to shape it all according to our model. Nevertheless, we can look for some analogys, some comparisons. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u32	Well, I'm not doing polemics, but our model has to be consistent with the European model. He could be our... There is no European model. ...but it has to be consistent... But there is no European model. Well, that'll come out in the middle of a discussion. Nevertheless, there are rules. There are no treaties. Senator Krzysztof Brejza asks the question of Senator Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u33	Mrs Marshal, a very important rule of law is, on the principle of fairness, the principle of stability of the system, also the principle of stability of change. This is, as we know, the tenth amendment of the Supreme Court Act in the last four years. In your opinion, does such an initiative violate the principle of stability and should a law as important as the Supreme Court Act be subject to so many amendments in such a way, without opinion, without consultation, carried out in such a short period of time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u34	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! It was the committees that paid the most attention to this at all times during their deliberations. In addition, both in the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and in the opinion of the Legal Office of the Senate, it was stressed that the law, which is of a systemic nature, must be examined with the utmost caution, because very frequent changes... I'm talking first about changes, about the number of changes, because it's probably the tenth amendment in the last almost five years. In fact, each of these laws must be particularly carefully examined, precisely in the situation of such changes, while respecting the principles of sound legislation. We drew attention to these principles in our report, pointing out that this... Because such action could undermine the citizen's confidence in the state. A citizen cannot keep wondering whether this law is in force or whether another law is in force. The court must also act in a stable manner. Please note that court proceedings take not on average 2 months or 3 months, but sometimes take several years, and in such a situation a citizen may change his judicial system several times. This is unacceptable in the state of law. And that's what we've been paying attention to. We also pointed out that the principle of stable legislation is also that such laws need to be applied correctly, so there should be a government project here... Well, we know very well that this project was created in the Ministry of Justice. Such a project should be subject to a detailed public consultation and should be evaluated by experts. Mr Kaleta... I am very pleased that the Minister is here today because yesterday at the committee meeting he promised that he would bring the legal opinions of the outstanding specialists who have been handed over to the Ministry of Justice in connection with this law. And I purposely mentioned in the committee's report all the opinions that the Senate had gathered Of course, half of these opinions were also available during the Sejm's deliberations, for Members Because it was the Senate who tried to do what the Sejm had not done. Namely, the Sejm did not lean on any of these opinions. And we had discussions, debates in committees. Not only in two joined but also in the third, because we are a member of the European Union and as a Member State of the European Union, by the will of our citizens... Because they're our citizens in a referendum... During 29 or 30 years of independence, we did not have many referendums, and we had a referendum on accession to the European Union. And our citizens have decided that we will be a member of the European Community. Our citizens voted for it. And we as legislator at this point have a duty to comply with EU law so that our citizens can be sure that no European body and no European court will question the judgment of the Polish court. After all, we did not do all this so that, as we sometimes hear from the Law and Justice, we introduce obstruction. No. We care about the interests of our citizens. Because our citizens, even though they don't feel it yet... Because a man has no contact with a court every month. Well, unless he's a lawyer. I was, so I've had this kind of contact a lot. But an ordinary man, an ordinary client comes to a lawyer once, maybe twice in his life, and today he doesn't realize the consequences of the bill that we're here today. He doesn't even realize that. If... the senator was giving examples here, too. Today in Poland there are very many marriages of people from different countries, Polish citizens are married to citizens of other countries. If such a marriage has children and has to be divorced, the Polish government will decide about the divorce, i.e. the termination of this marriage, and will grant custody of the children to one of the spouses, e.g. the one who is a Polish citizen, and the other spouse will go to his country and will not respect, will not agree with this sentence, because so often it happens. One side is always happy and the other is not And he's gonna apply for custody of his kids... Then the court in France, Germany, Austria, in any other country will find that the ruling of the Polish court is ineffective because the Polish courts do not provide legal protection because they do not apply European Union law and the judges are not appointed as the Court of Justice of the European Union has stated. And that's what this is all about. If Polish entrepreneurs are a digression from which we live, because we live with taxes of our citizens... We are working, and our citizens' taxes are a source of state revenue. If these citizens of ours, who are engaged in business, are going to prosecute with entrepreneurs from other countries and the Polish court is going to pass judgment, this sentence will have to be enforced, and the enforcement authority in France, Spain or Germany will say: no, this sentence is not delivered by a court of the European Union. Who's gonna get hurt then? Citizen. It's not for judges that it's the law, it's for citizens. Mr. Senator accused several times that... I remind you, judges don't do political work. Every judge makes a vow and in this vow is an obligation to uphold the law. So how else, knowing fully that the law is being violated and that this citizen is being pushed out from under a legal umbrella, is he to protest? Just like that. And one more thing that some foreign specialists have just told you about. Judges abroad speak on topics that are related to justice, the rule of law and the law. Well, generally everything, every issue is to some extent a political activity. If the Sejm or the Senate is a law, it can be said that talking about every law, even the code of civil procedure, is a political issue. If the judge says that the provision is incorrect, e.g. the provision of the Civil Procedure Code or the provision of the Law on Judicial Costs, which notabene changed in August in such a way that the citizen for settlement proceedings instead of 300 PLN will sometimes pay up to 50,000... The judge may not like it, therefore... Given the senator's arguments, we could say that this would also be a political activity, because the law that politicians have set up is being questioned. The judges are upholding the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u35	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Gorgon-Komor has a question for you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I had a question for the senator, too, but the senator was very thorough in putting forward arguments about what was good for the people and what wasn't. I'd like to... This has already been passed on to our voters. I have a question for Senator Mark Pop, who is also a lawyer. Since the meeting of the Legislative Commission to this day, I have listened to various statements from both the Ministry's representatives, Mr Kaleta and you... These statements are very converging. You use mostly two words: anarchy and caste. You are a lawyer, and you call your fellow judges who graduated from Polish universities, studied, trained and worked for Polish courts, in the country 30 years after gaining independence and overthrowing communist power... And you're still insulting them. I can't agree with that, although I'm a representative of another profession, I'm a doctor. And even today you have challenged the competences of the professional self-government, which is also the achievement of: the barrister's self-government. I do not agree with this absolutely because you go to public opinion and you show that all this competition It's some kind of disengaged competition that doesn't work for society. Please tell us what you are headed by as a lawyer, because these statements by both government representatives and you are very convergent. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u37	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u38	Senator, you'd have to clarify at which point I challenged the powers of the barrister's office, because I don't recall...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u39	During the report, which was not quite the report, because you were talking about our website, that we are using propaganda here. And I've heard so many of your speeches, which are also a little propaganda and they're hitting us. But, unfortunately, the barrister's council is a professional council. But... And here you are... All right, Miss... If there were experts present at committee meetings, which I understand, because you already have a term, I am the first... It was. ...in terms of both medical knowledge and legal knowledge... But... Sorry, don't bother me. We have expert opinions. They apply to us because they're not people out of nowhere... There's no such thing. ...they are lecturers of Polish law at Polish universities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u40	Okay, Senator, I'll try... There you go. ...though I have such malice on my lips... No malice, please. ...the famous Roman Juris, Celsus, who spoke in such situations: either I don't understand what you're asking me, or the question you're asking is very stupid. But... It's horrible! Oh! But this... You don't understand. Because, I don't know... Exactly. Because, I don't know, you're gonna accuse me in a minute... Senator rapporteur, you better... ...that I'm... You don't have to answer all the questions. Okay, but... You'd better not answer... But as for the first question, why do I call the judges caste, I am merely quoting the famous symbolic statement that has already entered the canon of a certain debate about the rule of law. It is about the statement of the judge that she has further clarified that she is a member of an extraordinary caste that wants revenge. If this is a legitimate statement within the limits of the culture of political and legal dispute, then I most certainly remember that only the opinion of the district barrister's council can be defined as a political manifesto full of absurd references of today's situation to the situation of the martial law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u41	Thank you. Senator Wojciech Necessary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u42	Thank you very much. I'm here to see the rapporteur... Senator. Senator, I'm sorry. I have a question about art. 137 §1 points 2 and 4. Points 2 and 4 impose punishment in the form of removal from office or transfer. There is no punishment for reprimand, or reminder, or lighter punishment. And my question is: what were the intentions of the authors of this provision? For other delicacies, such as more obvious and gross, e.g. violation of the dignity of the office or contempt of the law, penalties of reprimand and reprimand are admissible, and in the case of these 2 points... One has already been cited, i.e. actions or omissions which may prevent or significantly impede the functioning of the judiciary or the prosecution. And two: public actions of a political nature. They're so heavily stigmatized, they can only be punished with such severe punishments. That's for the prosecutors. As you know, prosecutorial justice, so to speak, is in the hands of the Attorney General, and this punishment is very severe. What are the intentions of a lighter punishment in the case of others, and here it is placed so strongly? What were the intentions? And my second short question: why do prosecutors have to report association membership? This is a certain restriction on constitutional freedoms that are. These freedoms can be reduced, but an important reason needs to be pointed out. And I would like to know what is the reason why we limit this freedom of association. Because here we have a few options. This is the case if state security is at stake And if so, please tell us how the only working association of prosecutors violates the security of the state. Public order, environmental protection, health, public morality, possibly violates the freedoms and rights of others. These are the cases recorded in the Constitution when we can demand such a restriction and say, for example. We have such surveillance control of who belongs to which association. So I have two questions. First of all, why such severe punishments, and secondly, which of these opportunities in the Constitution were fulfilled by the only association of prosecutors operating in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u43	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u44	Mr. Senator, the intention of the legislator or the projector maybe I won't speak. In my own name, I can say so much. And I think that sounded like a committee meeting too. It's just that prosecutors are slowing down a lot less than ordinary citizens. Besides, the prosecutor is not a judge, so such constitutional guarantees relating to judges cannot be attributed by analogy to prosecutors. It reminds me of a discussion four years ago when we changed the law about the D.A.'s office. There it was very clear that the prosecutor did not use the quality of independence, and prosecutorial independence was something other than judicial independence. I think that's the only way I can justify it. It's just that the prosecutor is a man who, in certain areas, is less likely than an average citizen. I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u45	You want to tell me more, don't you? That's the second question. I mean, it's about which one of these possibilities occurred in the event of this limitation... I don't really understand the question. I'd just have to lean over those laws. At this point, I can't even find that recipe. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u46	I mean... I'm sorry, this is mostly about the Constitution. In accordance with the Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions: The restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act and only if they are necessary in a democratic state for its security or public order, either for the protection of the environment, health and public morality, or for the freedom and rights of others. In turn, the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 states: Public authorities may not collect, collect, share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state. There must have been one of these cases described in the Constitution, since there is such a gathering of information about associations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u47	Good. Mr. Senator, we can have this conversation for a long time... Well, I can't exactly answer that question right now. That happens sometimes to the rapporteurs. I would very much ask you to direct this question to the representatives of the Ministry who will perform after me. They certainly know all these rules much more in detail. I just can't concentrate like that right now. They're supposed to be not authors. But on behalf of the government, they have the right to comment on the content of this bill. This is also a parliamentary custom.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u48	Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u49	Thank you very much. I have a question for you, Marshal of the rapporteur... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm here. Oh, yeah, yeah, I can see that. Mrs. Marshal, I have a question. On what basis does your marshal claim that Poland must adapt, as if Polish law were of lower rank in relation to European Union law? I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Is Poland treated differently in the European Union than other countries? That's the first question. Second question. On what basis does your Marshal claim in the report that Poland may suffer, say, some sanctions, various sanctions, consequences if it does not comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Could be, among other things. deprived of funding from Europe. On what grounds? Is there any law against this, or has anyone ever threatened to do so? And then there's the third question. How do you interpret the Constitution on the public activities of judges? I'm talking about art. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by 3: The judge shall not be a member of a political party, trade union or public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. I am referring mainly to the latter part: to conduct public activities. Can the elderly meet with the heads of political parties and agree with them some of the things I have seen on television many times, or should they avoid such meetings and political demonstrations together with the politicians of one political party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u50	Thank you so much for these questions, Senator. I'm gonna answer the first question... I mean. to the first and second questions, in fact, together. The law in Poland is not only the law established by our Sejm and the Senate. It is also European Union law and international law to the extent that Poland is a signatory to international agreements. This is directly due to the Constitution, Art. The 9th Constitution states that Poland respects its binding international law. In other words, whenever the Republic of Poland enters into an international agreement and transfers part of its competence to another body, it must incorporate this agreement into our legal system. Art. 90. 1 the Constitution states that the Republic of Poland may, on the basis of an international agreement, delegate powers to an international organisation or an international body of state authorities in certain matters, and art. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution provides: The ratified international agreement, after its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland, forms part of the national legal order and is directly applicable, unless its application is subject to the issuance of the Act. The most important in this puzzle are 2 consecutive paragraphs of the article. 91, that's the mouth. 2 and paragraph 2. 3. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 says: The international agreement ratified with the prior consent of the Act takes precedence over the Act if the Act is incompatible with the Agreement. So in Poland there are like 3 legal systems: Polish law, European Union law and international law to a certain extent. And now, Mr. Senator... When Poland joined the European Union, it accepted a commitment to comply with EU law. I, as a lawyer, remember this situation because I was interested in the fact that throughout the 1990s, since we even expressed our willingness to join the European Union, we have changed our legal system and adapted it to the law of the European Union. Only when we adapted this legal system to the extent that the Union required and achieved the level of legal protection required by the Union could we join the European Union. I am sorry to say that after 2015, perhaps no one would have accepted us into this European Union, because this law no longer has the quality that our accession to the European Union has had. So that, when we joined the European Union, we are governed by EU law on a primacy basis. This was also stated by the Constitutional Tribunal in the 2005 judgment, which I mentioned in the report. The right of priority of EU law means nothing less than that if the Polish Parliament adopts a law contrary to the law of the European Union, the Polish court and the Polish office have the right, if there is a collision, to disregard this law which is contrary to the law of the European Union. Why is that? Because we have made such commitments and we must respect these commitments. These obligations stem from the Treaties, the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union is a body which primarily serves to interpret EU law at the request of the countries which belong to the European Union, but also to determine an infringement of Union law by a country. The European Commission may, if such an infringement is found, request the Court to initiate proceedings. It was included in the second question. All these issues may be the result of such conduct. We've had these situations in the wilderness before. I'm sure the senator remembers that there was a security order, and then the government stopped the forest because there was a threat, a threat of sanctions. EU law benefits from priority, whether we like it or not, and Polish courts are also courts of the European Union after Poland joins the European Union. That is why the bodies of the European Union have a duty in some sense to be interested in whether the Polish courts are independent and independent within the meaning not only of the Treaties, but also of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and of all the documents of the Council of Europe, of which we are a member at our own request. I remind you that the European Union is not only Poland, it is also other countries. Citizens of other countries, if Polish courts pass judgments against them, must also be sure that these judgments will be handed down by independent and independent courts. It doesn't argue with the constitution, it's the subject of our law. Let me remind you one more thing. The Court of Justice of the European Union has for many years passed judgments in the cases of Polish citizens. I will remind you of the recent sentence, which the state should remember perfectly, the sentence concerning the franchise. When the Polish courts didn't really know... Of course, the country in the 2015 election campaign promised, also the President promised that you would deal with the problems of the franchise, and the problems of the franchise were solved. In fact, the Court of Justice of the European Union. Only after the ruling of the tribunal, which was kind of initiated with questions for a preliminary ruling, the Polish courts began to issue judgments favourable to the franchise. The same was true for tax rules. Very often it's like this... It was about businessmen. Many of my clients in my previous business benefited from the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union interpreted the tax rules. This was particularly the case with the provisions on the tax on goods and services, which are extremely complicated. At the beginning, when the VAT Act changed, very often tax authorities in Poland overinterpreted VAT legislation without applying all European Union directives. At that time Polish citizens addressed the tribunal and he ruled. This tribunal has issued for Poland many very favorable judgments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u51	Thank you, Senator. Senator Rafał Ambrozik is asking questions. I didn't get all the answers. Then please...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u52	Oh, and that's the last question. Yes. And the question is... About the business... I forgot. I would like to point out that the ratified international agreements... There is also a case concerning the Federal Republic of Germany. Do they have a different status than Poland? They say their constitution is more important than... But they... There you go. I don't know the constitution of Germany, I'll say it right away. The German Court said so. They can't say that. Both Poland and Germany and France, all 28 countries of the European Union are subject to the principle of priority of EU law. It applies to all countries that are in the European Union. I forgot that third question. That was a question relating to the judge's ban on political activity. Yes? Yes. Well, Mr. Senator, of course, the judge should show abstinence in his conduct as regards political activity, and therefore in Poland judges cannot be members of political parties. But, as I said, when answering the previous question, judges also have certain legal obligations and, above all, judges have a duty to uphold the rule of law. And protesting against laws that violate the rule of law is, in my opinion, within this obligation. And as far as social issues are concerned, Mr. Senator, I'm not going to talk about your president's greatest social discovery. It seems, also the judge, only another tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u53	Thank you, Senator. And now Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, the question has been raised about the legal situation of the judges in Germany. I'll quote the article. 95 German Constitution. In the field of universal justice, administrative, financial, labour and social affairs, the Federation shall form the highest tribunals: the Federal Court, the Federal Administrative Court, the Federal Court of Auditors, the Federal Labour Court and the Federal Social Court. The appointment of judges of these tribunals shall be decided by the Federal Minister responsible for the area concerned, together with the Board for the Appointment of Judges, consisting of the national ministers and members elected equally by the Bundestag. You don't see a threat to the independence of a judge here? Mr. Senator... And, by continuing... I'm sorry. But that's still a question you're asking? I'll finish it. Continuing... You haven't finished the senator. The question of linking the rule of law with EU funds. That's also very interesting. I would like you, Mrs. Marshal, to indicate the criteria to be followed by a court, perhaps the EUJEU, in a possible ruling on the rule of law. The Commission's proposal, which emerged, was directly criticised by the lawyers of the Council of the European Union, the European Court of Auditors. Well, so that you may have criteria on the basis of which Poland is to be punished. After all, the state, as a club, is in favour of punishing Poland to impose criminal sanctions. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, please don't insinuate... I'm sorry. Next question... Don't insinuate. Yeah, but that's right, because your leaders are talking about it, directly. Okay, but don't argue in the O.R. A question for me, please. Question for the senator. And, Mrs. Marshal, one last question. There's art. 88a, it is said that the judge is required to make a written declaration of membership in associations, associations and foundations. Mrs. Marshal. Well, I'm addressing you here as a lawyer, counsellor. You don't think it's gonna be easier for you even if you're still an active lawyer, maybe you're... The active one doesn't. Don't you think these records will make it easier to prosecute justice in court? Well, because it's not like you, as a lawyer, don't know if a judge is, like, a judge. was he a member of this association, or was he not a member of this association? Well, here's a very good example of the process between a farmer and a member of a hunting circle or a hunting wheel as a whole. Well, the hunting wheel has an obligation to pay compensation. But a poor farmer like that doesn't know if a judge is a member of this circle or not. Well, that's gonna make it a lot easier for the lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u55	I'll answer the question, starting with the third question, because the first one... You'll tell me again later. But I'm gonna start with that third question. I don't see such a danger, Senator, because for the past 30 years, since we've been in the legal system, you can tell, others, we haven't had such problems. In addition, as regards the issue of making a written statement, here is paragraph 4 of this Article. 88a, according to which the information contained in the statements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be public and shall be made available in the Public Information Bulletin. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, I understand that the servants... Probably in services such as ABW or CBA, such statements are also made. And I understand that. But they're not published, that's the difference. If they're published, it's not a matter of... Service, Mrs. Marshal... But let me finish now. It's not a matter of... It does not matter to the lawyer because there are rules in the Code of Civil Procedure and in the Code of Criminal Procedure that refer to the exclusion of the judge. And there are 2 institutions, you know that very well. . iudex suspectus i iudex inhabilis. Therefore, if there is any indication that the judge will not be impartial, the judge may be excluded or the judge may turn himself down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal, what if he doesn't turn himself off and you don't know if he's part of the association or not, you won't even suspect him?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u57	Senator, you ask questions, and you don't get into discussions. If you don't get an answer, you come forward... Will I get an answer? ...and I'll give you the floor. Of course. Some sort of order here is needed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u58	This is an interesting problem, but this is an interesting problem only when you come up with the assumption of bad will and bad faith. I also had a court application, I was trained in this direction to be a judge, and I know how much pressure was placed on the judges to teach independence, to show them what it means to be independent, independent and objective by the judge. Our judges are professionals. They know perfectly well... I in my bar practice, if I'm going to appeal to my bar practice, I've had so many examples that suddenly, I didn't even know why, my court composition changed because the judge shut down. It happened because he said that, for example. He didn't have any contact with this site, and he didn't think he could settle the case. Enough of that, there were situations... I happen to have a situation in my professional life that my colleagues, who were judges before, were doing a lawyer's job. And there were situations. And it's always, always, without any rules That judges who once ruled together were sitting in the same room when a colleague who was later a lawyer had a case, turned off and turned off to this day. I have a lot of examples of such cases. Therefore, I can say that there has never been a problem with this. The judges knew perfectly well when they should shut down. I don't recall meeting any... not even a Supreme Court ruling in which a court would have to settle such a matter, because the judge maliciously didn't disable itself. So that there is no such danger here, and yet it violates personal rights. The judge is not only a judge, he is also a citizen and has certain guarantees of the right to privacy that our constitution gives him. That's the answer to that question. And if you could remind me of the first question, because I don't remember... Relationships... The first one was about the connection... In Germany. Yes. There's one more thing... One more question was there. The Constitution of Germany. The Constitution of Germany. I have already said that every country of the European Union must respect the principle of priority. This is due to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, even earlier decisions, before the Treaty of Lisbon. Many times... There was even such a ruling just given in the case of Poland in 2019, which as if confirmed this principle of priority, but also in German cases, and in Spanish, Portuguese cases there are such judgments, it is a very rich case law. This follows directly from the Treaties and the case law of the Court. So that there is no possibility that Germany does not apply the principle of priority. It's written in the constitution, Mrs. Marshal. I say again: every member of the European Union must apply the principle of priority and the consequence of non-compliance is the Union's procedures. I will not point you out because I am not working at the Court of Justice of the European Union, precisely this procedure, but there is a procedure that is strictly defined. If the State fails to comply with the Treaty, the European Commission shall first address the State and then address the Court. So that's... Besides, we're the subject of this procedure right now, because I remind you, the senator, that there's a case in the Disciplinary Chamber last year... Mrs. Marshal, I meant that there are no established criteria on the basis of which this rule of law or the violation of the rule of law... But I'm sorry, these are questions, Mr. Marshal, not polemics. Mr. Marshal, can I just finish this or not? If not, I'm just gonna ask you to sign me up for...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u59	I'm writing you down. Okay? Because here's the discussion between the two of you... I think it's for debate... ...started. Sign up for the senator. Now Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, the bill that has been tried by the publicists, but not only, the muzzle law and its effects of the entry into force, should be considered in the context of other earlier legislative changes which have ruined the Polish justice system and the Polish rule of law over the last four years, the Polish democracy. It's about the previous Supreme Court Act, the system of common courts... The Constitutional Court. ...the Constitutional Court, which has actually become a political tool in the hands of the PiS, or a law of surveillance, which, after all, is important in terms of civil rights and freedoms. I would like to ask you about the risks from the perspective of all these systemic changes, which concern the independence of the entire justice system, are for the average citizen, for his rights and for his civil liberties. Well, given the case of the citizen's accident in an encounter with Prime Minister Szydło... What may be the consequences for civil rights and freedoms in terms of the whole system change that the Law and Justice Government has introduced?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u61	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u62	This is a very right question, because today's procedated law should be discussed in the context of the whole system of law, which has been introduced since 2015. In fact, first the Constitutional Court Act and the question of the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... This has led the Constitutional Tribunal to fail in principle to fulfil its statutory constitutional role at the present time and to fail to fulfil that role. I won't go into details here, but even the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal themselves, those who shouldn't be judges We call them, in the press, as well, understudy judges question the capacity of the Constitutional Tribunal to perform its constitutional role. We also have all these other laws... However, such a sin in the matter of the judiciary is the Act on the National Judicial Council. I remember in 2015, when there were several hundred unattended judicial posts, you did not fill them with the Minister of Justice just because you waited with this cast for the adoption of the Act on the National Judicial Council. Now these 500 posts are filled, only that according to what the Court of Justice of the European Union has said, what it has signaled, what it has ordered to check, and in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Court, the body which nominated these persons, these judges, was an unauthorized body. This, of course, causes a lot of repercussions and there are problems not only for these judges. These are huge problems for them, and I'm dealing with judges who were wondering whether to participate in this nomination procedure or not... You can imagine that the judge has been on a delegation for several years in the district court, and for these several years in this district court there has been absolutely no free... Although there were 30 posts to fill, there was no recruitment. At the time when the new National Judicial Council was established, these 30 posts suddenly appeared. The judges had huge dilemmas. If a judge has been ruling in this court for many years and knows this matter, he has a huge paper and leads several hundred cases, that's it. And the question of his responsibility, what to do. And I don't envy any of them making those decisions. And the second point is the safety of citizens. It is an independent court and an independent judge that guarantees the citizen that it does not matter who will be his adversary, that it does not matter whether the adversary will be a member of a party, that it does not matter whether the adversary will be a member of the government or any other person who is related, related or otherwise related to the authority, regardless of who is in power. It's not that this party is in power today. She could be different tomorrow. A guarantee to the citizen that no matter what... That's how politics goes, today we're in opposition, tomorrow we'll be in government, and the citizen shouldn't be interested. The citizen should be interested in the fact that he will always, no matter who is in charge, have a case recognized by an independent court and an independent judge. This is the basic guarantee for citizens, this is the most important issue, which is why Polish judges protest. Pay attention to one more thing, High Izbo. It's not the judges who protest. From my generation or older, it is the young judges who protest, the judges who have been forced into the head of what is the essence of the independence of the court and the independence of the judge. [[Applause]] These are judges who have already learned European law, who have already learned at a time when Poland joined the European Union, and many of these judges have said that the nominations to these judges, the first nominations were given to President Lech Kaczyński. These are the judges. They are protesting because they have a very deep knowledge of the law, they are well aware not only of the realities of our legal system, but of the legal system of the European Union, and they are well aware of the repercussions of such a law. Not much, they have to deal with courts all the time, with the justice system from other countries, because they go to courts, for example. maintenance sentences. When a Polish citizen who lives abroad, e.g. United Kingdom is still in the European Union Or in another country... When we want to execute such a sentence, it is a foreign court or foreign enforcement body in the United Kingdom that is a court It corresponds to the Polish court on the subject. There are various conclusions to these courts, different judgments. These judges know that this will have repercussions in the sphere of international trade. It's not the '80s anymore, when we were locked behind the iron curtain, and we only had contacts with the Eastern Block countries, and maybe there was nothing needed. Now we are in the sphere of European law, which is extremely complicated, and you need to have very much knowledge in order to be able to apply this right. Our citizens must be sure that Polish judges can apply this law and that they can guarantee that they will apply this law in such a way that, regardless of whether the citizen stays in France, England or Italy, this law will be applied and the judgment will be recognised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u63	Thank you. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u64	I have questions for the senator. I was going to have 2 questions in a minute, I'm going to fit in, they're going to be very short, I'm going to try to fit in, and they're going to be 4, because what I heard here was what provoked me to do. You said the D.A. was slowing down a lot less than an ordinary citizen. What do you mean by that? I ask because an ordinary citizen can't lock up a citizen for 48 hours, he can't, like in Niepołomice, lock up the mayor, ban him from acting and introduce a political party commissioner. What do you mean, the D.A. has less rights than a citizen or is he allowed much less? Second question. Did you participate in the work of the parliamentary team on the protection of the rule of law? Did you express your opinion yesterday during this turbulent and long debate? Have you asked questions to representatives of other countries and legal backgrounds? Because you are so eager to refer to examples from Germany or France, and I heard yesterday that, however, representatives of the justice system of Germany or France say that it is not true what you are trying to say, that you are selectively drawing out certain statements or records from French or German law and interpret them in your own way. Yesterday I heard that German or French lawyers denied that you were right. And to fit in in a minute, a quick question: did you present the position of minorities or the position of the party or your private position? 'Cause that verbal tyranny you gave me, it kind of reminds me of TVP Info. I can turn on the TVP Info and I'll hear exactly the same clichés repeated... I'd like to know what you've worked out in your minority Senate committee, not hear the exact same thing on TVP Info again. And a very short question: do you believe what you're saying? Because I, as, let's say, still a young senator, can't understand that an educated lawyer who talks about caste, all those clichés we hear all the time... I can't understand it. And finally, a very brief question, which task was provoked by Senator Ambrosik. I very much regret that we are not discussing the subject raised by your senator, e.g. How to secure a citizen so that in some situations he can be protected from justice. Because I don't think that's what this whole debate is about, it's not about reforming justice. You're trying to take over the justice system to make him incapacitated, to subdue the party, and that's the direction. This discussion, which had only been caused for a moment, was a honey for my heart. If we were here in the Senate discussing the improvement of the legal system in Poland, what Poles expect, then I would be the happiest man in the world. For now, all I can see is a political and party brawl, and, as I said, I see nothing in this reform but the submission of justice to just the right party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u65	Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I'd like some questions. I asked four. Did... I already did, four... sorry, three. No, no, I'm talking about questions, the form of questions... But those were questions, 3. All right, I'm not discussing this with the senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u66	Mr. Senator, since you have a mouthful of these clichés about the rule of law and you teach me what I should say and what message I am presenting, start with yourself and follow the rules of procedure, because it is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that you have one minute to ask questions and questions about the subject of a committee meeting. I am the rapporteur of the minority, reporting in my best faith what I believe to be the subject of the committee's deliberations. None of these questions concerned the subject matter of the committee and I will not answer them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u67	Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please ask questions... Nervous. ...Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. There will be questions for your marshal. Are you?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u68	Yeah, yeah. I have questions for your marshal. At the end of your report, you expressed your opinion that European arrest warrants issued in Poland are subject to specific control by the European Union. Do you have any specific examples? Why should the European Union not execute these European arrest warrants? And does this show that the European Union does not comply with our judgments? That's the first question. Next. I am surprised that the ruling of the TSUE on non-compliance with European Union law is still being made during the procedure of the law. Do you think that's legal? And do you not think that if the law of the European Union is above the law of Poland and Poland does not have the right to decide on its independence, then we are a state which is no longer a sovereign state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u69	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u70	Senator, I'm gonna answer that, starting with question one. There was a case a few years ago when a court in Ireland questioned the Polish arrest warrant, the European arrest warrant issued in Poland, and even asked the court about the Polish courts This was one of those judicial reforms carried out after 2015 and asked whether this arrest warrant could be used in Ireland. And every once in a while, they've been told that some of these arrest warrants are being checked in more detail, and the European arrest warrant has something to do with it, like any arrest warrant, that it's meant to be used to quickly apprehend the perpetrator, the perpetrator of the crime. Well, first of all, the point is that he doesn't run away somewhere where this European arrest warrant doesn't apply, and secondly, that he doesn't pose a threat to the legal order. And that's what every country cares about, because if a criminal escaped from Poland, then the country he's coming to has a problem. It's not just that we can't catch him, it's that he can commit crimes. However, it is these reforms of the justice system in Poland that already raised such doubts to some judges in the countries of the European Union, whether this citizen, when he is handed over to Poland, will have the right to a fair trial. Well, it's about protecting the citizen. This case went on... It was confirmed that it could be spent, but the case lasted almost 2 years, i.e. almost 2 years Polish justice system could not judge this person. Some part of these arrest warrants is checked, and this should work automatically: I get a warrant, I fill out, end, without thinking. That is what the community of law in the European Union is all about, that when I get a sentence, an order, a resolution from some country of the European Union, I don't wonder whether I should do it or not, I just automatically do it. And this is not how it works now, because all these changes, which have occurred in the system of Polish law, especially the justice system, raise doubts about judges from other countries. If this law is passed, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the committee, is contrary primarily to our Polish constitution... This law serves as such a clever omission of the role of the National Judicial Council, which has in some sense been challenged, its role in the nomination of judges, and this is because a definition of a judge has been created here, which is not in line with the definition of a judge in the article. 179 constitutions. Art. 179 says that the judges are appointed by the President of the Republic at the request of the National Judicial Council for an indeterminate period, and this new definition of the judge states that the judge is the person who was appointed by the President and has taken a vow to him. There is no mention in this bill that there is still a role of the National Judicial Council, and this may raise doubts as to whether the President is nominated for a judge of a person who does not meet the requirements at all to be a judge. If she makes a vow to the President, it will not be possible to question her appointment in the light of this law. And it can't be, it can't be. You referred to these various legislations, especially German legislation. There's one more thing. Of course, different nominating bodies choose judges, but any such decision in Germany can be challenged in court. Few of this, this judge, a German representative, said that very often this happens, that these decisions are contested, that someone is suing them, appealing to an independent court, to an independent judge, so that he can determine whether this decision is compatible or illegal. This law disables the ability to control and this is kind of the essence of this issue. And if you go further, you can imagine this situation completely abstractly. In 1946, new judges began to be appointed in Poland. They had to be characterized by certain ideal qualities. They were supposed to be faithful to whom they were supposed to have a committed ideological attitude. Imagine they didn't even have to have a law degree. And they then ruled on behalf of the Polish People's Republic. This situation continued until 1956. Even the Soviet model was introduced so-called. Law school, high school, high school, high school, high school law, high school law, high school law, high school law, high school law, high Well, we don't want to go back to the fact that we won't know, society won't be sure, and neither will we, who will be the judge, or the person who was elected judge, meets all the conditions! The bill must not be against the Constitution and must not undermine the role of the Constitution. Because we're about to say that we're following the law because we're following the bill. And there's a constitution. And the second point: does the priority of EU law not make us sovereign? It does not cause, because we have made a sovereign decision as a sovereign country. In a national referendum in 2003, our citizens decided that we would be part of the European Union and that we would give up some of our competences to the European Union, but also that we were taking over some of our obligations. I still remind the High House that, apart from accepting certain commitments, we have, in principle, been beneficiaries of aid from the European Union to date. Our citizens, our farmers, are beneficiaries of direct payments as the only group, are beneficiaries of EU subsidies. Our roads, our schools, our institutions, I could exchange them, too, are co-financed from the European Union. So it's not like we gave everything away. We have given up part of our powers, above all we have committed ourselves to upholding EU law and to integrating EU law into our legal system, but we have also received a lot of benefits and we benefit from these benefits. Our citizens, because we are included in the Schengen area, can cross borders as they wish. We have free movement of the population. We have the opportunity to educate our children abroad. We've got a lot of benefits. So it's not a loss of sovereignty. We have become a member of a certain community of values, and it is about respect for the law, for judicial independence, for man, for human rights, for human freedom, but in return we have received a lot of benefits. That's not all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u71	Thank you. Thank you. Anything else you wanted, Senator? There was no answer to the question, was there?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u72	Yeah, 'cause I also asked how any judgments could be taken during the procession...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u73	This ruling you're thinking of, Senator, is not on the basis of this bill. The case which the European Commission... is already in the Court of Justice and whose signature I referred to in 2019 concerns the Disciplinary Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u74	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u75	I have a question for Senator Mark Bang. Mr. Senator, on the grounds of the minority's request, you said there was a risk of anarchy. This is a premise that the authors of this law and the PiS environment often refer to. If I remember correctly, the anarchy was introduced in the Polish legal system relatively long ago, but recently it was strengthened, first, by the failure of the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment, which ordered the Marshal of the Sejm to disclose a letter with signatures recommending candidates to the National Court of Justice. This order of the court has not been enforced; secondly, the failure to comply with the Supreme Court judgment, acting under the authority of the Court of Justice of the European Union, declaring the CRS to be a subsidiary of the executive and legislative authority, continues to act and conduct its proceedings. In addition, the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court was not recognised as a court and, in the meantime, ruling on disciplinary matters in relation to Polish judges. How are these? evident examples of the anarchy of Polish legal life to justify the fact that this law is supposed to deal with anarchy, since this law acts the opposite way, is going in the opposite direction than the ruling of the TSUE and the ruling of the Supreme Court? This law will deepen the anarchy in the Polish legal system and the state, in my opinion, are responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u76	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I've already talked about this, but I'll be more specific. I really believe that this state of affairs, in which judges denied the status of other judges and thus entered into the exclusive right of the President of the Republic, is as much a form of anarchization of the judicial system in Poland, a very dangerous phenomenon, including the fact that judges clearly fall within the powers of the executive authority and the legislative authority. Worse still, I believe that a similar political philosophy is becoming more and more rooted in the space of the European institutions, because there the confusion between the powers of the various bodies is already increasing. I see a great danger in the fact that the European Commission, using or in cooperation with the Court of Justice of the European Union, enters, firstly, into the powers of the legislative authority, secondly, into the exclusive powers of the Member States. And I, as a politician, may not like it. I have, first of all, a different vision of what I was talking about, which is the threefold division of power, and secondly, I have another vision of the European Union, which I think should approach with much greater restraint the imposition of certain models. For example, the judiciary, the justice system Member States, if these models do not come directly from the Treaties. If we adopt such a principle, which you have told the marshal here many times, that the European Union is really going to furniture all aspects of our political and legal life, then we are really going to renounce our entire national sovereignty. We have not yet renounced this sovereignty, and we have limited it only in the very limited and precise aspects mentioned in the Treaties. And the word "anarchy," which your senator is so appalled by, with regard to a certain perspective on the development of the situation, is associated with a dangerous phenomenon, because I'm telling you again... I'm accused here of some kind of contempt for judicial authority. Nothing more vicious. I just, as a senator, would like this power to operate in accordance with the Constitution, within its constitutional powers, and not turn into real executive power, and into legislative power, because there is neither constitutional consent nor political consent.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u78	Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u79	Dear Senators of the Rapporteur, I have a question for the senator, but also, although it will be a little different, for Senator Mark Pak. Mrs Senator, in your report, you said that this legal situation which is currently being created in Poland could be important not only for the judicial sphere, but also for example. for the functioning of business, business placement in Poland and legal certainty relevant to those who wish to do business interests in Poland. Please tell us how this legal uncertainty can affect the placement of capital in Poland. Can it influence the decision whether to invest in Poland or in another country? Can it affect the fact that Polish companies will start to fear investment and functioning in Poland and start moving to countries where this legal uncertainty is less? Were there discussions on this subject in the committee? I would also like to ask Senator Mark Pęka a similar question, but I would just like the senator to spare us these stories about his vision of the European Union, about what the Union can, what the Union cannot... Because the law is not created under its own imagination, the law is created under extreme situations that are difficult to imagine, but the lawmaker should take them into account. And aren't you afraid of this situation or you? in general you talked about the fact that you are creating a law that will lead companies from Poland that would like to invest somewhere, but they believe that Poland is already getting too close to non-EU countries, Belarus or further, about uncertain order, so they will look for investments in more reliable countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u80	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u81	Mr. Senator, of course it will matter. Besides, we are all observers of economic life and we know that something has collapsed since last year, the level of foreign investment in Poland has fallen significantly. Foreign investors will not invest in a country where there is such a threat that if they enter into a dispute, for example. with a local government body, with a voivodship or with another entrepreneur who is linked to the governing party - Anything? - Yeah. I want it to be a party. They're gonna lose this argument. And they won't invest. Why am I talking about this? It's because I've also had this experience in relation to my clients who invested in the east. I'm not going to name countries because that's not what this is about. But I'm going to say that when entrepreneurs were going to start investing somewhere, they were doing very precisely so-called. Research on what the law looks like in a country, if they didn't know it, and they didn't invest, didn't make big investments in countries where it was known that if you get into a dispute with a citizen of that country, you always lose, you always lose. This is very important for entrepreneurs. Besides, if the investor invests in Poland, he will also have to be a client of the Polish justice system in various cases, because he will have to process himself or register something, so he will be exposed to uncertainty as to whether he will give an independent court and an independent judge in his case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u82	Thank you very much... You're still Senator Bang. Oh, Mr. Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u83	Mr. Senator, buddy of your previous term, you're asking me to spare you something. Well, I'm gonna say what I think is appropriate, because I'm a free man and a democratically elected senator. And I would like you to spare me these visions, these self-fulfilling prophecies of catastrophe in Poland under our rule. Because I've been hearing about polex, about the rule of law for five years, and I'm not hearing anything about the rule of law in France, and I'm not hearing anything about the rule of law in a situation where our heads are being raised. Nord Stream II, which runs counter to all the fundamental principles of the European Union for which it has been established and to various specific provisions. Furthermore, I believe that you are abusing, in a demagogical, populist and strict political way, this argument which is supposed to justify that our regulations will lead to some tragedy in international case law. At the committee meeting, Minister Kaleta spoke about the scale, about the fact that there were probably only a few of these accepted proposals, and in fact there was no conflict of case law, either economic or criminal. There was this issue of the warrant... ETA. ...ETA. So, yes, there could be legal incidents. They happen not only in Poland. There's a procedure here that needs to be dealt with, but so far we're not dealing with any mass-scale phenomenon, and we certainly won't. And if that were the case, it would also be a profound abuse of judicial authority for political purposes. So I would also ask you, for these political purposes, to hold back this narrative, because maybe we here in Poland are better aware of what it is for, but already our foreign colleagues have a worse orientation. It seems to me that the main point here is that there should still be this chain of constant accusing Poland of polyxit, of violating the rule of law, so that I will say this in the colloquial language of grilling Poland with all possible means in the international arena. As for this polexit, I will tell you further, Senator, that for now under the rule of Law and Justice Poland is developing well; all budgetary, economic and economic parameters grow above average European. And I strongly doubt that our colleagues from the European Union would like to lead to polexit, since they work very well with us, for example economically, financially. Economic markets very often point to Poland as a model of economic development, economic condition, etc., etc. Which market is it? Please? Which market is it? East? Mr. Senator, the prospects for development, growth, etc., etc. are constantly raised. I'll ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u84	Ask him. I'll ask, I'll ask. Thank you, Senator. I have to fill in, because one more thing for me... But there's still a Senator Sticky on the list. Well, the answers to my question have already been answered, i.e. The one you asked me. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u85	If you don't mind, I'm just gonna ask, or actually I'm gonna say... it's Senator Mark's fault. I understand that you do not take into account the fact that European law will question these laws and that you will lead to... But that's what you didn't ask me, Mr. Senator. That's what I asked you. That's exactly what I asked you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u86	I understood your question in this way: do we think that what we are doing can lead to some kind of avalanche, a mechanism that will lead Poland to bring out of the European Union, to undermine judgments, to destabilise international legal order? Of course we count on what the European Union says, but Once again, I would like to stress that. Our basic argument is that the issues that this law regulates are left to the Member States to regulate. Thank you very much. But you don't have option B.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. And you... Well, I'd like to fill in the rest of that statement, 'cause... Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u88	There's one more thing I'd like to say about investors. This is not just a question of foreign investors. This is also a question of Polish investors. We all know that the justice system requires this reform. I say "require" all the time, because what was done after 2015 is not a reform. This is further subjugating the progressive submission of the executive justice system. Justice requires reform. When in 2015 I sued my clients, in ordinary municipal cases, housing cases, in simplified proceedings, I received a payment order in a normal district court in 7 days, and then I waited 2 months for a feasibility clause. In 2018, after this reform, this payment order had to wait 9 months and another year For a declaration of enforceability. When I finished this activity at the end of 2018, I made a report, it turned out that I have not yet issued orders from November 2017. And these reforms that have been carried out, these quasi-reforms have led to even greater downtimes, have led to terrible chaos in the justice system. The judicial staff, apart from the judges, was not bent over the office staff, over the judicial secretaries. People work for minimum wages. These are people with a higher education and a long-term internship. And that's the biggest problem. People worked for 2,000... In my last term of office, I took part in committee deliberations, in such committee meetings with the people who were striking, protesting, meetings with the judicial staff. They were talking about the quality of court work. Digitization has not been completed. Some issues have been introduced, such as: the portal for judicial decisions. So what if you didn't go a step further so that this portal could facilitate, for example. service where there are professional representatives. Because from the judge's decision or judgment to its service to the parties in recent times, it is necessary to wait sometimes two months. Why? And because there's no one to print it, and there's no one to work it out, because the judges have a couple hundred files in the paper, and there's a lot of... On 5, 7 judges sometimes there are 1 assistant or in kidnapping 2. And there are hardly any secretariat staff because nobody wants to work for this money because it's a very hard and responsible job. And these are the problems of the justice system. To ensure decent work and pay for justice workers, the secretaries, to ensure... that judicial procedures are simplified so that a certain category of court cases are pushed out because it's really unnecessary for the records to be in court. But this is a report on this bill? No, that's the answer to the question whether entrepreneurs can stop... He's an awful interpreter... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...invest in Poland. This is why they stop not only investing in Poland, but also stop taking up any economic activity, because the justice system is choking more and more from year to year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u89	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you first, Marshal of the majority and later. And that's the same question. Senator Pęk, rapporteur of the minority. Well, I'm talking about the kind of thing people come to me with. In the opinion of the marshal and your senator, is the situation normal, that there is, for example, a situation. that the farmer who suffered hunting damage does not agree with the valuation is present in the court, and the case is examined by the judge, who is a member of the Polish Hunting Union and who has experienced such situations, is precisely from this hunting district, which was affected by the damage? Does it therefore increase citizens' rights to a fair court that the citizen who has a case in court will be able to verify whether the judge concerned In addition to the activities of the court Is he in any association so that he can effectively file an application for the exclusion of that judge who does not guarantee that he will be impartial in the case under consideration? Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u91	First of all, the senator asked this question yesterday at the committee meeting, and he seems to have received an answer. But we're gonna be on this case... I already answered that question today, I was talking about an institution like iudex sspectus. The judge shall be excluded if it appears from all circumstances that he will not be able to be an objective judge in the case in question. That's what I said in a nutshell. This is a rule that applies both to the Code of Civil Procedure and to the Code of Criminal Procedure. And I've already told you that judges have a sense of inner independence and objectivity, and they do it themselves. Judges avoid such situations so as not to expose themselves to the charge that they are somehow connected to a case. Well, maybe someone's a member of some organization. He may as well be a member of the kynological union, may raise some reasonable or even unjustified doubts as to his impartiality. But I'm gonna remind you of that recipe right away... Because, Mr. Senator, that way you can regulate everything, to the end, to the point. There was a rule before 1989 that the judge could not be a spouse, wife or husband, a lawyer who in the same district of the provincial court Because then the former voivodship courts function. And what were the judges and lawyers doing back then? What do you think? They just didn't have marriages. That means overregulation doesn't solve the problem. This problem lies in the mentality of the individual, in whether he has a sense of fairness and objectivity or not. And just like a judge who goes to the Ministry of Justice, he's setting up a hater group and surveillance someone or sending WhatsAppem messages about other judges while at the same time revealing information that is only for recruitment purposes provided, information from the personal life of other judges... Well, what kind of recipe would the senator regulate so he doesn't do something like that? Well, of course he's not a good character. And these are the qualities that the judge should have, and these conditions have worked so far. There's no need... We must respect this law as we have, not create new regulations that will absolutely change nothing, and even... They're only after one thing. This is not about the Polish Hunting Union, it is about the associations of the Lex super Omnia, the Iustitia and the Miss, it is about such organizations. I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u92	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal, I know about the solutions you were talking about. I suppose. However, I know of situations where the judge didn't turn himself out of the process... So... Just let me finish. ...and the citizen who acted as a party to the court had no knowledge of the matter and could not effectively conclude He or his legal representative For the exclusion of the judge concerned from the proceedings. I believe that this is a provision which absolutely serves the transparency and right of the citizen to a fair and fair judgment and ensures the impartiality of the judgments that occur in public space. In the courts. And then, especially since it's a smaller environment, an opinion of such judges Sooner or later, the public will find out about it. It would therefore be in the interest of the judicial community to adopt or accept such a solution. And if we're dealing with a situation like this, there's gonna be a party in court. Councilman of the group, who is criticised by the judges' associations, who are currently active in political space, so what? Can such a person have confidence in the court that his case will be dealt with objectively and justly or not? And wouldn't it be better for a citizen to have knowledge and to make appropriate proposals if he felt that this would guarantee the impartiality of the court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u94	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u95	Thank you for that question, Senator. It was a statement. I am so glad that you care so much for judges to have a very good reputation in public space. I understand that this is what the actions of the Polish National Foundation and the hanging of various billboards about judges were used for. But I don't agree with you in general. I believe that such a provision should not take place. I can say it again, perhaps because I'm a lawyer, perhaps because I was finishing the famous Alma Mater, and perhaps because I had brilliant professors who could teach me laws, philosophy of law and ethics. Many times as a lawyer, despite my well-known political beliefs, I had clients and, on the one hand, and also those who weren't interested in politics at all. I wouldn't think of it as a lawyer to make my legal assessment of a given issue dependent on what party my client is from, what political inclination is. And I think the judges have it exactly coded in. That's one thing. Second, somehow you found out about this case. I'm talking about this hunting union. That's why we have in-house control bodies so that the second instance court can identify such a case. Then the party or its agent under the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code are such provisions It may challenge such a judgment, alleging that the court was not properly filled, because the judge who was to be dismissed was involved in the judgment. Yet...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u96	Mr. Senator... But, Mr. Marshal, I was asking... But maybe it's for debate, Senator. No, no. I was directing this question to two rapporteurs, and I was directing it to your Senator. I told you right away, so now I'd ask... Oh, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u97	I might repeat this main question: does the disclosure of judicial activities increase the security of the citizen as regards impartiality in his case, or is it the opposite? I'd like your opinion very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Briefly. I think it's increasing. We're different from the marshal here. Your Marshal represents the view. I don't want to go back to stating that the judges are so extraordinary morally, ethically, that there's no need to make a casuistic calculation of bans, orders, delicacies, because they themselves, sort of from within, listening to their conscience, from everything suspicious, which is questionable, will be excluded. Well, I guess a lot of judges are like that, I don't question that. However, the law regulates certain typical, standard situations, and there are many doubts about some of the judges' behaviour. Let's not underestimate that either. There's a lot of information that's annoying. So the law has... Or else: the legislator has the right to respond to this with some concrete legal solutions. Mrs. Marshal, I would like to disagree with you in the sense that the procedure you are proposing is that, if any, the judge will be turned off later, he is arguing a little bit with what you said earlier, namely the expectation of speeding up the procedure. Such a simple way of verifying judges makes it easier for judges to fill in judges so that they do not have to submit a request for exemption later and extend the proceedings. [[Applause]] I'll just add: especially since things are a lottery. That makes it very easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u100	Senator Cracks. We have talked here on several occasions about the dangers for every citizen involved in organisational subjection and the rules on disciplinary responsibility, for the security and strength of the citizen in confronting the state administration. We talked about weakening this level of administrative courts, talking about the problems of cross-border justice related to family and economic matters. That's where I'd like to say. Mr. Senator said earlier that we haven't seen it yet. I'm talking about the future, Mr. Senator. These problems, as we have heard, as we are currently seeing the reaction of the various bodies of the European Union, may occur. And in this context, I'd like to ask you something. There is such a point in the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court: "It should be pointed out that every properly appointed judge of the Polish court is also a European judge, and therefore the correctness of his appointment is not the result of defining the concept of judge in the Polish law, but of the real existence of the key feature of the judge, which is his independence. And further: The Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly confirmed that the Member States of the European Union are obliged, inter alia. In accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation, ensure the application and respect of Union law within its territory; this means that it is up to a Member State to lay down the measures necessary to ensure that individuals respect their rights, etc. The Court of Justice stressed that the mere existence of effective judicial review to ensure respect for Union law is an inherent feature of the rule of law. In the context of this section of the opinion and in the context of e.g. the OSCE opinion, which has reached us, in the context of what the European Union's Commissioner for Legal Affairs says... In the context of all these signals, in the senator's opinion, we can draw the confidence that the government has shown during the deliberations of our committees... What do you think we should draw from this certainty that there will be no very negative impact on our citizens in adopting this amendment? Of what?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u101	Mr. Senator, it's hard to answer that question. Well, I think we should. ♪ There's never any certainty ♪ I'm gonna get her out of this... I stress this once again, for the hundredth time, that this law in our opinion benefits from the presumption of constitutionality, is in line with the Polish constitution and with European law. I have no influence, I cannot force the same trust from our colleagues, whether from the European institutions or from the European countries. You need to talk, you need to talk substantively and calmly. I have the impression that this state of uncertainty, which you foresee, is reinforced by political action. It is not a legal argument that determines that these rules are potentially so bad, but that I should say the application of such self-fulfilling predictions. Well, I just see bad will in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u102	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the rapporteur's marshal... First of all, I would like to thank you very much. I've been an entrepreneur for 25 years... In your own, you have shown the whole spectrum of dramatic cases in courts when it comes to entrepreneurs. It's getting deeper now... Thank you for saying that. I have two questions. You provoked me to do the job first because you used this phrase: a citizen being pushed out of a protective umbrella. Here's my question. According to your experience as a lawyer, the substantive guarantee that the independence of the courts will be guaranteed by a citizen who, for example, Will he demand compensation for the Treasury or, as Senator Sławomir Rybicki said, will he have a collision involving a well-known politician? That's my first question. Two. As you think, Mrs. Marshal, in the light of what we are discussing, how we can now protect ourselves from the possibility of manipulating the judge's composition, e.g. in a specific case, since the bill leaves the gate and it is possible to skip the random assignment of cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u104	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u105	Thank you for that question, Senator. A Polish citizen is pushed out from under a protective umbrella, which guarantees him a constitution, and it will be very important in matters where the State Treasury or some state institution is the other side, or... I will give you an example: a public hospital. After all, for many years we have seen that the courts are seeking compensation for the so-called. medical damage. The hospital's owner is either a city, a municipality or a voivodship, these are hospitals, which are public hospitals, most Polish hospitals are. And such medical events occur in such Polish hospitals. I've done this kind of thing myself. The citizen can imagine that the judge will be afraid to judge high compensation, and there are already very high compensations for damages, sometimes up to PLN 1 million, because he will take care of the interest of the State Treasury or the voivodship, because he will be afraid of the consequences of this decision. The sit-down of a judge as a person who has to look back and still wonders what not to do, how not to behave, so that, in quotes, not to undermine the authorities, the executive authorities, causes this judge to cease to be a judge in his conviction, because he gives judgments, calculating whether it will be worth it or not. In this situation, we're not gonna... The judge will be afraid to pass judgment. As a lawyer, I think it's really going to get the judge to know what judgments he's going to give and what he's not going to give. Because if the judge... There are already cases where the judge acquitted one lady in Poznań, another judge acquitted people in Warsaw, it was about demonstrators, and later these judges had problems because they issued specific substantive decisions. Therefore, Yes, I'm afraid that in such a situation the judges will simply cease to be independent because they will fear... Every man who does this profession, who has a family, kids, loans, has to have his back on the line, that for whatever he does, for doing his job, he may lose his job. That is why I highly value those judges who are now defending the rule of law, risking not only their legal career, but also putting their entire families at risk and maintaining their families precisely for this idea of independent courts and judicial independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u106	Thank you. Mr... Thank you, thank you, but another question. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry... Uh-huh. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u107	I'll repeat the second question. For this answer, thank you very much, very, very much, very well discussed. Now, how do you protect yourself from being manipulated by a judge? That was my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u108	That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen, just like that. As in the last one, Mrs. Marshal... Now it's a lottery deal. In general, in every... You were against it, too. I wasn't... Shot in the fence. I wasn't a politician... Okay, Mrs. Marshal... ...I was a practicing lawyer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal, don't argue with the room... Anyway, I don't... Then I withdraw the question. I'll have a question for the Minister if he'll allow it. Thank you very much. Exactly. I don't think that's a question for me. Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska is next. Senator Cracks. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u110	Yes, I have a question for the senator. I would like you to provide the sources of information that you gave in your statement concerning the rally in Wrocław, which took place and where politicians and judges performed. Yesterday you were present at a committee meeting where I made it clear that there was no such situation that it was simply a lie. That's what Deputy Minister Kalet said. It's just a lie. I'm not the only person here who's been on this demonstration. These were two separate manifestations, there were judges in court, and then the group went to the Freedom Square where politicians were performing. So don't repeat untested and untrue things. And give me the source of your information as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u111	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u112	These are widely available sources. At this point, I can't tell you which TV I watched it on, but let's just say I know it from the media.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u114	Excuse me, sir, I'm asking you to correct me. Then prove it to me... Well, excuse me, you're saying, from some media. I'm telling you, that's not true. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to withdraw this statement because it's not true. I've been an eyewitness to these events, and I'm telling you what it's like, and you're talking about some media. I'm asking about the source, and you're speaking in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u115	Okay, Senator, but you're not an institution deciding what's true and what's not. I have such a perception of reality that I am in good faith that I saw on TV that the Pinior was standing next to the judge who is ruling on his case. We can guess what TV...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u116	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting this discussion. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Senator Antoni the Man. Senator Senator's breaking up, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u117	Yes. Mr Senator, you, on the grounds of the procedure for introducing this law in the Sejm, the procedure referred to by the Marshal of the committee, were extremely outraged by the fact that another judge challenged the status of one judge. In you, it's caused a lot of outrage. And don't you resent the fact that this bill that we're debating practically eliminates other values that are very important in the justice system as far as judicial independence and judicial independence are concerned? In my opinion, these are priority issues. I'd like to ask you if you realize why these problems have arisen that are so outrageous to you, that is to say, undermining the status of a judge by a judge. Let me ask you straight: do you not think that this is the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the reform that you have done with regard to the procedure for setting up the National Courts of Justice? Because it is not true that we do not have a model of a European judiciary. Although, you know, I, having experience in the economic sphere, believe that we were the quickest to repair the post-communist Polish reality in those sectors of the economy in which there was such an economic model, because there this competitiveness began to function almost immediately after the introduction of these economic laws. That's one question. The second concerns the Disciplinary Chamber. You know, the fact that in your reforms, which have been introduced so far, you probably didn't do much... I would like to ask you what are the effects of the introduction of laws, reforms after 2015, because I do not see them. I believe that because we need to operate in the national model, these changes and reforms should be introduced in consultation with reality, i.e. experts and the judicial environment, because I do not know another legislative model. I admit that I have actually more experience in the economic sphere and there is the absence of entrepreneurs... sometimes they may engage in some lobbying, but that's why there are parliamentarians to eliminate illegal lobbying. It should be the same here. I believe that practically all these laws are implemented in the same mode because you have some imaginary model that doesn't match reality at all. Therefore, you do not consult with the environment, with experts or experts, and experts are very often deeply rooted in all of this. In my opinion, as far as the length of proceedings is concerned, it has increased rather than decreased. If you have any evidence, tell me as long as you've shortened your time in court. I don't see it. Well, maybe that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u119	Mr. Marshal, I have such a request that you observe the rules of procedure, because these are questions that are completely non-essential to the matter of the bill that was discussed at the committee meeting. I understand... Besides, Mr. Senator, these are all questions with the thesis. Then you are outraged that I am politically responsible. I am unable to answer the questions in which the answers are actually already included, very general and very broad political thesis. I'll answer one question, Senator. Well, you're confusing two basic legal categories when you talk about the economy. Economic freedom is one of the categories that comes directly from the European treaties. Nobody here disputes the principles of the common market and the legal, economic and economic rules that apply here. We are talking about the judicial system, the justice system, which I repeat once again, probably for the tenth time today. According to the Treaties, it is directly reserved to the competence of the Member States. We have the right to shape this system as we see fit, as sovereign senators and Members of the Polish Parliament. As for the procession in the Sejm, it is difficult for me to talk about it, because I have no influence on how the bill in the Sejm is being processed and what values, the rules are possibly violated or abused. From my point of view, such a political... Don't be mad. I see here that guilt is mainly on the side of the opposition, which is doing everything to make a nightmare and a completely unsubstantiated, horribly emotional game. Sometimes I really feel sorry for the Members for the conditions under which they proceed. It's a little different in the Senate. As senators, we have some constitutional provisions that oblige us to consider the law passed by the Sejm on specific dates.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u120	Sure. That's not an answer to the question. And in what mode did you speak? Excuse me, just a minute. I'd like a little... Mr. Senator spoke to me with some attention. Senator rapporteur, I apply the same criteria to everyone in this section. I'm sure the next one will be, too, if I drive. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. I didn't get an answer. The senator didn't get an answer. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u121	No, I didn't get an answer when it came to judicial independence and judicial independence. Because, Senator, you have not responded to the issue of the Disciplinary Chamber... Today it is clear that the shape you define in this law will violate these 2 values. It's clear. Good. But, Senator... Mr. Senator, I thought the reforms so far, even though they indicated... The ruling party had a huge impact on the seat of certain positions in the courts, a very large influence, but there was always some independence. And proof of that... And it didn't bother me that much. Mr. Senator... ...because independence is very important. And even at the Constitutional Court... Mr. Senator! ...that two judges, Judge Wyrembak and Mr Beszczółkowski broke out... Mr. Senator! They had a cadence...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u122	Senator, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. We're here to ask questions... I'm asking the question because I didn't get the answer, and more importantly... Okay, I'll repeat your question... I'm trying to... Mr. Senator, I'll repeat your question. Yes? Doesn't the Disciplinary Chamber in this shape violate... Does he violate the independence of the judge? Exactly, doesn't it violate independence? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u123	I think it's okay. I've talked about this here many times. What if it isn't? The whole debate is about this... And you already know, Mr Senator, at this point, at the beginning of the procedure initiated by the European Commission, what will be the outcome of the Court of Justice of the European Union? We don't know that. We have to wait. For now, we are in certain political and legal modes which, from my point of view, are being abused for political purposes, but we do not yet have a decision. Mr Senator, with all due respect, the answer to the question of how our reforms, introduced during the second term, have affected the Polish justice system, exceeds the scope of my report. I'm not gonna be able to answer them for a very short time, just to be precise, because... well, that would be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u125	I would like to thank the marshal first of all for this remark about equal treatment. I, too, wanted to speak out in defense of Anthony the Husband, and Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who, yes, slightly exceed the limits of the committee's work in their questions, but also you, answering questions, go very hard, reaching Nord Stream II. So we really need this justice in this courtroom. Mr. Senator, I was mostly thinking about time. That's right, that's right. The question is one minute. What if somebody... Okay, Mr. Senator... He's asking me a question for 10 minutes, and I'm not able to answer it precisely. Can questions be interrupted? Please, Mr. Senator, please... Yes. I remember... Senator, don't discuss this in the O.R. Ask me a question. I have two questions for Mark Pak, as well as for your marshal. First question To the rapporteur's senator. I remember how MEPs from the Law and Justice in the European Parliament acted on Poland so that the European Parliament could address the issues of elections. I also remember the Minister of Government, Ms. Beata Szydło, Minister Waszkiewicz... Waszczykiewicz... Waszczykowski. ...Waszczykowski, who requested an opinion from the Venice Commission. I also remember other examples of such twists in this matter. And I have a question: will a grey citizen, who will speak to a European court or another European institution, be treated with the same understanding as these people? Will he not be accused of reporting, making a marketplace, undermining the credibility of Poland in the international arena? Let me remind you that a grey citizen has the right, as a natural person or as a legal person, to address the European institution if he considers it to be a victim. This was done by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, by the Euro MPs of Law and Justice. Can a gray citizen count on the same understanding?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u126	Yes. No!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u127	Thank you very much. Thank you... It's a very important declaration. Now I have a question for your marshal. Well, today we are debating the so-called. It's a muzzle bill. I remember this sequence of events, starting with an opinion issued by the Venice Commission, then we had the first ECJ ruling, now we have another one. The latter concerned the power of the Supreme Court to define the position of the Disciplinary Chamber and to do so. Today's the next step. It's another bill. And I have a question. Does this law, which is the subject of today's debate, fall within these rulings? Can we say today that it is going in an absolutely opposite direction than the case law of the European Union, and therefore we are threatened with shame and certain sanctions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u128	There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u129	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Yes, we can say that this law is part of this series of laws that are aimed at increasingly submissive justice by the executive authority. She grossly violates the principles of EU law and creates such conditions e.g. By introducing this provision to challenge the power of another judge by introducing a definition of who is a judge, it essentially prevents courts from ruling in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019 and following the Supreme Court ruling of 5 December. Yeah, we can, once we know what the situation was like in the past laws... All I'm gonna do is remind you of the Supreme Court Act and shorten your first term of office as President of the Supreme Court. Well, it was a matter of... The case had to be signaled to get the government back. She's gone back, but the sentence's gone down anyway. This sentence was passed so that all the courts and all the countries knew that such things in European law were simply not to be done. It was a manifest violation of the constitution. I really hope, still hope, that after the Supreme Court judgment of 5 December, but above all after this judgment of 19 November the government side will in some sense withdraw, because it is putting Poland simply to shame, to shame before other countries, and the Polish citizens to these adverse consequences. Because it may be that Western European courts will question the sentence of the Polish court because this court was not properly filled. This original sin, however, is in the Act on the National Judicial Council This law, following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Court's judgment, should be restored as soon as possible to a constitutional state and the Council itself should be duly filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u130	Thank you. Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator. Mr. Senator, tell me what a change, what a good change the bill you are proposing for ordinary citizens will bring. Will it improve the operation of the courts, or will it speed up the handling and settlement of cases? Will it reduce costs for ordinary citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Senator! I'm going back to the preamble to this bill. I believe that this law will achieve the objectives described in this preamble, including the right of citizens to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. I believe that it is not all that simple and that it is not enough to say that courts should act faster, that procedures should be simpler, that fees should be lower. It's a thing to do justice. much more complicated, deeper. This law is intended to ensure to a very large extent that the citizen goes to a truly independent, independent court, a court that really deals with what it is called for, that there are no reservations about both ethical standards and suspicions of sympathy, actions or political intentions, etc. We've been talking about this since 11:00, and I think I've talked about these aspects of the bill many times, which, in my opinion, certainly also affect the fact that the courts will be better, that the courts will be fairer. This is done by both the precise distinction between who is a judge and who is not, as well as the very precise and much more realistic design of this system and the catalogue of actions related to the principle of apoliticity of judges, and all other aspects which are the basis of the case-law of the judge as independent and independent. Well, I can't answer that question any other way, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the senator a first question. Senator, I expect, like my colleagues, to be offended by you, but I will try to ask you a question after all. I will also try to make this question a simple question, because from what you often suggest, you do not understand our questions. Well, gentlemen, you have often assured us that the law you have proposed is the best possible solution is the solution that fits into the standards of the Member States, the standards of the European Union. I will try to believe that the drafting of this law as a parliamentary project, which prevents public consultation, was not due to the avoidance of an opinion, an expert assessment of the provisions of this law. Today, following such consultations in the Senate, we know how many errors are included in this bill, the errors that you have misled, because in the case of appointing judges, you have said that you are applying German standards, in which the German Parliament takes by a majority 2/3 of the decision to appoint judges. You didn't add that there's an additional record in your record that says that if two thirds of the judge isn't elected by a majority, then you're elected by a simple majority. According to European standards, this part, the latter part, is treated as a politicisation of the choice of judges, politicisation of Polish legislation. I would like to ask, which provision of this law, which you know very well, will ensure the resolution of conflicts in the international arena where, however, the Member States do not accept it as a law meeting European standards due to the bubbles in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u135	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u136	Senator, in my opinion, it is not the purpose of this bill to ensure that it resolves possible conflicts on the international stage. Well, the purpose of this law has been precisely defined, it responds to a certain internal situation of our Polish judiciary, concerning the status of judges, disciplinary proceedings, the principle of apoliticality, the principle of independence, the principle of independence. Possible discussions on allegations of this law at European level are ahead of us. Well, I think you're using the state in a way that's too hasty and too free... It is already such a provision of legal assessments and judgments concerning whether the law is compatible with European law or other standards. Well, if the senator's talking about standards, I'd like to see them, because the problem is all the time. And here we can't communicate. In our opinion, there is no such thing as uniform, precise European standards in this matter. It is really not so simple to say what is in line with European law, with European standards and what is not. We have tried to show these very different regulations in the committee on several occasions in the various European countries, that in some countries That's what I'm saying again. The judges belong to political parties, in some systems of judges choose politicians etc., etc., and yet you still cannot see that there is diversity here, that there is a wide range of solutions here and that not everything is so simple, black and white, zero-one. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u137	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, the senator didn't answer my question. But which one? I take it he didn't understand that question. I asked you a specific question... But this... But I don't know why the senator is so mean to me once again... I asked you a specific question... If you... Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator! But, Mr. Marshal, you should take a little care of the good... Really. No malice. ...my rapporteur. The fourth hour I report, I try to answer all the questions according to my best knowledge and capabilities... But I don't blame you. Do you want a break? But I resent that... Do you want a break? ...that the senator summons me here to some culture and order, and for the third time he insults me, although I have not referred to you before during the debate. Something like that hasn't happened before. Yes. Senator, repeat the question, only without any personal... No offense. Of course. ...a trip.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u138	I'll try without insulting you if you... Well, there you go. ...recognizes that... There you go, there you go. I'll try to put a simple question to you so you understand. Well, I asked you about a specific provision of this law, providing our citizens who live in the European Union, who live in different countries, with the possibility of resolving disputes on the international stage, in the event that the adoption of this law is not accepted by the Member States, as suggested by the experts involved in the public consultation. You say we demand standards. You don't know these standards. Well, if you do not know these standards, it is difficult for you to prepare Polish law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u139	So I answer for the second time the same: it is not the purpose of this bill what you ask me. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u140	Very... I'd like to ask you a question, Marshal. I'm asking you to ask the marshal a question. Senator Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u141	Mrs Marshal, first of all, I would like to thank you for the thorough preparation of the amendments and the reliable answers you give us, very transparent and showing the consequences of this law. I would like to ask you... the public opinion was very often disinformed, to say the least, about the provisions contained in this law. The public consultation showed us that this law has a lot of mistakes and that it refers to the solutions of the Member States of the European Union, which are accepted in the standards of the European Union, are exactly the same and should be accepted by the European Union... I would like to ask what this international debate on our law has explained. I would also like to ask whether it is in the standards of the European Union to share good experiences on the international stage, among Member States, among different environments, including legal environments. And since the sovereignty of our country was questioned here, I would like to ask whether this sovereignty does not secure, as part of our country's membership, the presence of our Members in the European Parliament, where they participate in the preparation of European law, our presence in the European Council, which also participates in the negotiations on the law of the European Union, and our presence in the European Commission? We have representatives there. It's their voice, their work should ensure the sovereignty of our country. Is that true?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u142	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Marshal of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u143	Senator! High Izbo! As regards these debates and the public consultation, the public consultation, the Senate committees did what the Sejm did not do. The Senate committees wanted to consult as much as possible with legal representatives as well as with prominent specialists in this matter, legal theorists, as well as with people from other countries, i.e. professors. They were people with academic titles. From those countries referred to by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice when explaining this law. They referred to legislation in other countries, suggesting that in these countries judges are appointed in the way that this law is designed, or that the executive authority has an even greater impact on the appointment of judges. As it turned out during these discussions and these meetings... I very much regret that there were no representatives of the Senate opposition at these meetings, because surely the discussion would be even more substantive in this context, that the questions to us here could be asked directly by these representatives of foreign science. But the essence lies in the details, because this judge, a representative from France, when he was quoted with an article that was used by our representatives of the Ministry of Justice, not even very... He said he doesn't remember this article ever being used. This is not about a specific rule taken out of context, it is about all the rules, the whole justice system, which gives the public the confidence that judges are free and the courts are independent. That's what this is about. And in all these countries, which were given as examples, neither the independence of judges nor the independence of courts by citizens and by no authorities is questioned, nor is it questioned internationally, because we also have judgments from Germany, France, which are issued there, and in which our citizens are parties. So that's what this is all about, to ensure full consistency. And second question: sovereignty. We in 1989 dreamed very much about becoming part of the Western world, not still being part of the Eastern world. To us the Western world of Western Europe, the European Union, at that time was still EEC, associated with values and respect for certain values, with the community of values to which we were going, for which the first Solidarity was fighting. For these values, our friends, friends, maybe the parents of many of us were interned or imprisoned, and so were many of us, given your marshal. And that is why we dreamed of it and we did everything we could to get into this European Union. For several years we have met all the conditions that allowed us to enter the European Union not only to obtain money from the European Union, but precisely to be in the circle of Western civilization, mainly in the legal sphere, in the sphere of human rights protection, such as are in Western European countries. And that's why we met those criteria. That is why we joined the Council of Europe in the 1990s and committed ourselves to complying with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Venice Commission, whose representatives were in Poland last week, is an organ of the Council of Europe. I am also very sorry that no one from the Sejm met with the Venice Commission, because there are very outstanding representatives of science. Even the current Minister Warchoł seems to be a member of the Venice Commission, and very well. That is why it was wrong that the Sejm did not discuss only in the Senate with representatives of the Venice Commission who asked questions and, of course, where the opinion, as the Marshal has admitted, we are waiting. But yesterday's meeting was also very valuable, because many of these half-truths or untruths, which functioned in the public message presented above all by Minister Kaleta, were simply disbanded. And it is also a great pity that the Minister was not present, because perhaps he could ask questions or, if he had doubts about the answer, he could clarify. I generally believe that we are in the circle of European civilization, which is a fact. The European Union is us. After all, the European Union is not an alien power, the European Union is not an alien world, it is not a foreign world. That's us. And it is precisely because this is us that we are choosing our Members of the European Parliament. After all, the Senate opposition also has its representatives in the European Parliament and they are taking part in European lawmaking. And European law serves all of us. I remembered, in the meantime, when there was a discussion about these judgments, that there was this famous cross-border directive. As a lawyer, I remember perfectly what the perturbations were, because we didn't pass the bill, and it just came into force and made it easier for our citizens to treat when they were going abroad. Previously, we had to buy insurance, and thanks to this, if we were insured in Poland, all foreign institutions in the European Union treated us on the basis of a card as well as all citizens of the European Union. And that's what Community law is all about. Although we do not pay for that insurance, they respect our insurance system and treat us on these terms, and we also respect some rules. Now about the courts. In the beginning, the courts were in a position contrary to the interests of the State Treasury. At the first moment when this directive came into force, Polish citizens were able to perform certain procedures abroad under certain conditions. And then there were such famous cataract treatments in the Czech Republic. In these cases, the NFZ strictly prohibited the payment of money, refunds under that directive. It was the Polish courts who caused, thanks to their judgments ordering reimbursement of the costs of these procedures to the Polish citizen, that the NFZ also finally applied it. Few of this, now cataract surgeries can be performed in Poland without any problem, and it took a dozen years to wait. This is the role of EU law. It is the role of the European Union that in general... The government of law and justice introduced it. That was before the rule of law and justice. No, no, ma'am. The biggest success of the PiS in the international arena in 2005-2007 was the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon. That's what PiS thought at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u144	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It will be a question addressed to your marshals. Specifically, it will be two questions, Mrs. Marshal. The first one is more specific, referring to your statement, in which you stated that the definition of a judge in some way infringes the powers of the National Court of Justice. Please tell me whether, in the current legal state, this definition, which I will quote: the judge of the General Court is the person appointed to this position by the President of the Republic of Poland who has taken a vow to the President of the Republic of Poland, allows the President to appoint a judge without the request of the National Court of Justice. Is that a definition or a procedural provision? That's the first question. The second is more fundamental. Namely, in your introductory speech, actually in your preliminary report, you stated that European Union law is above Polish, national law. But here you have to be precise, because the law includes various legal acts, different places in hierarchy, different powers. I'm gonna plead the sentence that you were talking about, too, and you were gonna bring him up on another point. That is to say, the judgment in Case K 18/04, this very famous judgment of 11 May 2005, which is interestingly given by the Constitutional Tribunal in its full composition. The chairman was Mr Marek Safjan at the time, and in this composition were also people such as Mrs Ewa Łętowska or Jerzy Stępień, i.e. authorities for your party. Well, that's the sentence. For the record, there was no separate opinion here, says, among other things... In the explanatory memorandum to that judgment it is said that the Constitution remains therefore By virtue of its special power, By the Supreme Law of the Republic of Poland in relation to all binding international agreements of the Republic of Poland. This also applies to ratified international agreements on the transfer of powers in certain cases. In particular, there are articles. 90. 1, or Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 may not give rise to the transfer of power to an international organisation or its authority to act or take decisions contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. That clearly explains the hierarchy. Every Polish, international law is governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This is what the Constitutional Court said in 2005, not ours. In quotation marks And perhaps not your Court. And that's what we're sticking to because we're a sovereign state. This is our position. You guys might want to do something different. You claim that there is a European law that is above Polish law. Which sentence is true?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u147	Art. 179 of the Constitution says that judges are appointed by the President at the request of the National Judicial Council. Therefore, in accordance with the Constitution, a proposal from the National Judicial Council is necessary today to appoint a judge by the President. This definition is therefore incomplete. Definition of Article 55 disregards the role of the National Judicial Council. This was the opinion of the representatives of the Ministry in the committee's discussions: because this was challenged by the Court of Justice. Yes. I imagine that's the situation, Senator. I'll answer your question briefly. I imagine a situation where, on the basis of this law, a person who has not been nominated by the National Judicial Council can be set up with bad will. I can imagine. Of course, it will be a violation of the Constitution. I imagine it could happen. Since 2015, a change in the justice system has been carried out as if outside the constitution, ordinary laws are changing slowly, step by step in the Polish system. That is why I am able to imagine that this could happen. In addition, the remedy for the judgment of the TSUE of 19 November 2019 is not a definition of who the judge is but a correct restoration of the constitutional compliance with the rules on the National Judicial Council and the constitutional filling of the National Judicial Council. That's the answer to question one. Question two. Of course you're right. The constitution is the most important. I never said... I never used the word superiority. I use the word "first place" all the time. This is important. Of course, the constitution is the most important and the constitution contains these articles. The point is that the Constitution contains articles that state that the law uses the principle of primacy, not before this constitution, but before the law. An international agreement ratified with the prior consent of the law shall prevail over the law if that law cannot be reconciled with the agreement. He's got priority. And the constitution, too. Or before the ordinary law? And that's our constitution. Mr. Senator, please... This is our constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u148	Thank you very much. Your next question is Senator Jolanta Hibner. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u149	Thank you very much. Senator Cracks. Mr Senator, you are presenting a minority proposal, saying that this law is ordering many aspects of the courts and that this option is actually perfect. I'd like to know... There's a Supreme Court ruling that talks about the Disciplinary Chamber. Why didn't you make an amendment or some other solution and eliminate this Disciplinary Chamber despite a judgment that is already in force? We're all supposed to respect the sentence. That's one thing. And the other one... We're talking about the jury's discipline. Why didn't the judges who were seconded to the ministry be included? They weren't covered, although we know what happened there. Why is it that there is no discipline, no special discipline, no judges who are to help the executive authority to a large extent? Those people who work at the Ministry aren't caught in the best records for the courts. Why are we dealing with such a situation that judges seconded to the Ministry of Justice, who led e.g. The chase on the other judges, they're just treated like they're coming back, they're thinking back, and nothing's happening? Why isn't it included in the bill? Why don't you make an amendment that disciplines in a special way those people who work on the border between the legislative and executive powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u150	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u151	Senator, I'm sorry I can't answer that question. Perhaps the Ministry's representatives will respond. And as for the question of the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, I believe that this chamber cannot be liquidated, it must exist, it is very important. Disciplinary action against judges by the Disciplinar Chamber is one of the most important aspects of judicial reform, which Law and Justice introduced in the previous term.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u152	Thank you. I understand that on this... Excuse me, Senator. I would just like to remind you that the Senator rapporteur should be the subject of questions about the report. We will have the opportunity to hear the government representative here, so the questions that are being asked by the government about the government's actions should be addressed to the government representative. The senator represents the senators who put forward the minority proposal, and the questions should be about this. I'm sorry about that, but I'd like to... I am not restricting the discussion in any way, but let us remember that there will still be a representative of the government and that we will have the opportunity to ask him questions, certainly legitimate. We also have a debate ahead of us where all the senators will be able to express their political position on this bill. My nuisance or my intervention is related to this. I would very much ask the senators both to respect the time limit and to stick to the substance of this debate. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u153	I just want to say that because we have this court order... You attended the meeting, you could have tabled an amendment. Knowing this, you're saying, in my opinion, the Disciplinary Chamber... But I'm not saying that in my opinion, it's in my opinion, it's in my judgment, and that's the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for your marshal, if you don't mind. Is the muzzle bill that punishes the judges... Because this is the punishment of judges, and I have a question: do some countries of the European Union also apply penalties to judges who apply the law? That's the first question. Second question. Everyone's calling for this muzzle bill not to be introduced. The march of the foot, Commissioner Věra Jourová, the European Commission... Here we have an opinion, for example, of the Scientific Council of the Institute of Legal Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences, where there is such a sentence that the judicial authority must be free from the pressure of the legislative and executive authority, and judges judging according to their own conscience cannot be subjected to repression. Then there is the operative part of the bishop, Vicar of the Archdiocese of Warsaw Piotr Jarecki, who supports the words of John Paul. II: The independence of the judiciary from politicians is essential to prevent constitutional democracy being transformed into a kind of majority sovereignty, leading to the actual transformation of national sovereignty into an electoral dictatorship. I'm not talking about the Sejm Analysis Bureau, which didn't leave any dry hair on this bill. The Supreme Court... Here, too, your opinion... Question, question. I mean, it's just... Taking control of the Supreme Court and the Court of State is the practical end of the judiciary, closes the mouth of judges... The Council of Deans almost all legal universities in Poland... Therefore, I have a question for your marshal. Do you have a positive opinion on this muzzle bill? I said I listened and couldn't find one. I would like you to answer both the first and the second questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you, Marshal of the rapporteur, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u157	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is disciplinary responsibility in every legal system for judges, but disciplinary responsibility is limited to a situation where a judge grossly violates the law or fails to respect the dignity of his office. We asked this during the meeting of our committee and our guest team, who came to us from other countries, and they did not think that a judge for the application of the law, and especially for the application of EU law, could bear any consequences. I would like to remind you that the original intention of the applicants was precisely to punish judges for the application of the judgment of the TSUE, because this §1 (1) had a slightly different shape and only later was this changed. But in fact, the application of EU law can be punished equally well on the basis of point 2, it is about actions or omissions that may prevent or significantly impede the functioning of the judicial authority, because a horse with a row of who will say what it means. You can pull everything up to that. Or actions that call into question the existence of a service relationship of a judge, or the fixing of a constitutional body of the Republic of Poland. I understand that this is about the National Judicial Council. That is to say, by a judge, that the National Judicial Council does not meet the requirement of an objective body within the meaning of European Union law, it is already a disciplinary measure for which the judge may be held liable to disciplinary action. In the Western world of Roman law, in the world of Roman civilization law, it is abnormal in the European Union, there is no such legislation. That's the first line. And the second question about... About the positive opinion... Yes. There are a lot of negative opinions about this bill. I didn't find a positive opinion. Minister Kalet promised them very much yesterday because he claimed that the Ministry of Justice had them. I wonder why the Ministry of Justice, since the Ministry of Justice was not the author of this bill, it was the Members. But he claimed that there were such opinions. I very much asked the Minister to bring these opinions to the sitting today and, above all, to tell us who signed these opinions. Because all the opinions that were submitted in the Seym, Marshal Witek, and you, to the Marshal's staff in the Senate, were signed by the people who prepared them. But there were no opinions that would approve the solutions contained in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u158	Thank you very much, Marshal. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u159	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! I have a question for you, Marshal... Marshal of the rapporteur... rapporteur. We are talking here for a very long time about many aspects of the law amending several laws in different categories and at different levels of detail, also in legal terms. But we know basically that the public opinion, Poles in the country, if they are interested in justice, if they have a position towards it, would want to know clearly whether this law will lead to a goal that is important to many. For us, I'm sure, too. In order to improve the justice system in Poland, speed up processes, increase the efficiency of courts, also improve the work of judges and judicial administrators. Does this bill even have a purpose? Does such an intention appear in regulations or anywhere, but above all, is it possible to achieve this if this law entered into force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u161	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! This bill absolutely... The provisions of this law do not contain such an objective. It has no positive effect on the citizen. There is only this negative effect that, if adopted, the European Union, the European Commission can start applying the procedure to Poland. So the citizen will lose it. As far as the issue of improving justice is concerned, I have already talked about it today. The main aim is to finally improve the procedures. Of course, the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code have been adopted in the last term, but these changes are terrible. They complicate matters even more and limit citizens' access to justice. I will give only one simple example: a fee of 100 PLN for justification. Recently, on Twitter, Commissioner Wojciechowski, the current Commissioner of the European Union, has alleged that, as possible, the citizen must pay for the justification of the order. That limits the citizen's access to court. And this, no less, only the recent changes have led to the fact that not only in the case of the order ending the case or the judgment ending the case, the justification must be paid for, but also in the case of any failure order, i.e.. provisions on suspension of proceedings. If the party wants to justify this provision because it disagrees with it and wants to challenge it, it must also pay 100 PLN to obtain such justification. The next issue is court fees, which were also raised in August. E.g. a fee that should in principle remain, I really do not know what the idea was, what was the purpose of increasing it: a fee for a request for a settlement attempt. It is such a procedure, you can say, before a court, but it is intended to resolve the dispute without involving the court. So you're making a deal with the court. If someone wanted to apply for a settlement trial, he paid 40 PLN. If the value of the subject matter of the dispute was above PLN 10,000, it paid PLN 300. And the court ruled it out. The rules have now changed so much that 1/4 of the judicial record must be paid for such proceedings. And since the judicial entry from August is no longer a maximum of 100 thousand PLN, only a maximum of 200 thousand PLN, the maximum fee for such application is 50 thousand PLN. Of course, according to the rate depending on the value of the subject matter of the dispute. Civil court fees have also increased. It seems that the calculation of these fees has changed, but as I have calculated in the case of various cases, such simple cases, it turned out that there is an increase for the citizen of several dozen zlotys. Because there's a table that says that there's so much to it. And that also led to an increase in fees. The aim of improving justice would certainly be to further improve digitalisation. I also mentioned that the portal of appeals courts throughout Poland has been working great for several years, probably since 2012 or 2013. But the next step wasn't taken. Because what if a proxy on a day or a day after a resolution or an order on a case he's running, receives information by e-mail, normally on his smartphone, if, in order to get this order out of court and use it, he has to wait two months for anyone in this court to be able to print that order, sentence and judge to sign it. Why? Because there are no employees in the courts, because this is how all this is conducted, that there is no one to do it, there is no shipping. And yet, the introduction of this portal could have accelerated the delivery. If someone is represented by a professional proxy and this proxy has access, is logged in to this portal, this way they can be notified of the dates of the hearing, and not so that the judge issues an order that this date of the hearing will be then and then... Well, he's gonna have to set a pretty long deadline, 'cause by the time this order comes out of court, it's gonna be two weeks before it gets to the site before it's two weeks due to the visa, it's gonna be a month. Why? After all, we could use the instruments we have, and we don't use them. These are things that could improve the justice system. Legal aid from the state. Last year, I think the Supreme Audit Chamber issued a devastating opinion on the legal aid system in Poland. I, as a lawyer, know perfectly well how it worked, i.e. How it didn't work. Legal aid from the state is also something... and from the state, and this free legal aid... it needs to be combined into one system and something sensible to suggest. I could still talk today about the various aspects I've been seeing for these twenty-several years. But in order to really reform the justice system, you have to listen to judges, legal organizations, and opposition, because you can always sit down, make a round table, so real, substantive, and think about what to do so that our citizens can have easier, cheaper and faster access, real access to justice. I'd just like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Szejnfeld for an additional task, as I understand it, of questions. Or in corrigendum mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u163	No, no, an additional question, I'd like to ask. Thank you, Mrs Marshal, for a very comprehensive and clear, clear statement in response, but I would like to ask for a simpler answer. If this is what your Marshal says, in my opinion people in Poland should know whether to inform by the government, by the ruling majority, about the fact that this law is intended to reform the justice system, so that the ordinary citizen feels it just by speeding up, improving, dancing, increasing the efficiency of the courts, it is fair and fair to inform citizens of the purposes of this law or not. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u165	No. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. I apologize for the question, more specifically, of Senator Marek Komorowski. I would just like to read the list of senators who signed up to ask questions so that the state who had not yet done so, and had the will, could do so. So we have Senator Marek Komorowski, we have Senator Rafał Ambrozik, we have Senator Marcin Bosacki, we have Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, we have Senator Filip Libicki and Senator Jolanta Sekula. This is not a formal closing of the list of speakers. I just wanted to remind you who's on the list, and if anyone wants to vote, they can. I would also like to announce that after a series of questions to the senators of the rapporteurs, I will announce a short break before the government representative takes the floor. You're welcome, Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u167	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. A lot has been said here. I have questions for Senator Moravian-Stanecka. I do not share Mr Szejnfeld's view that in a clear, obvious way, etc. She explained to us... Because you haven't actually explained anything to us so far. And you're quite clever in your statements that you're going through... you're throwing examples of a number of different laws that don't apply to this bill that's being processed here. You are the representative of the committee, but so de facto this majority of the committee. Since you're the rapporteur, I understand you've also prepared yourself from the Universal Courts Act. Because there's been such questions asked by your senator from this side of the room before... I have a question for you: what do you think about updating laws? Does amending laws somehow affect the stability of the law, whether it is good, whether it affects the system of law, and in this particular situation, as you say, the independence of the courts? And do you have any idea how many times the Universal Courts Act has been amended since it was passed? Because at yesterday's committee meeting, and today there were all kinds of questions... That's one thing. And two. Why, or on what basis did you make an unjustified conclusion to me, it can be said that after the adoption of this bill, on which we are proceeding... You questioned the effectiveness of the court ruling in the cases you mentioned, among others. in succession cases, in principle scaring citizens in such a way that after the adoption of this law it may not be in Poland's legal order. Why are you selectively interpreting the law on the system of common courts and the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? That's what you've asked Senator Czerwinski before, but I'll say it again. Something else is the procedure for the appointment of judges set out in the Constitution... You cited an article... Art. 179. ...on an article. 179, and he's talking about mode. And he says the judges are appointed by the President at the request of the National Judicial Council for an indefinite period. A. 87 of the Constitution speaks of what is a source of universal law. The first is the Constitution, here there is no doubt, and the Law on the system of universal courts in this area It is after this change that it defines the judge's status correctly. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 55 says directly: the judge of the General Court is a person appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland who has taken a vow to the President of the Republic of Poland. It's in accordance with the article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the system of common courts in the further part of it... There's no contradiction here. The lady has come to the conclusion that there are inconsistencies here. It is necessary to distinguish between the mode of appointing a judge and the status of a judge and who can be a judge. And please note that the constitution speaks of the independence of judges, the independence of judges in the conduct of... Art. 178 Constitutions: Judges in the exercise of their office are free and subject only to constitutions and laws. So they're not in the courtroom. And as they enter the room, they put on a robe, a chain, and they sit down for judgment, they are unswerving. Nobody has the right, no politician, no judge's independence... It is not threatened and is not taken here in any way. And the independence of the courts Even in the preamble, it's written about it. I think it's gonna have to be... That's how I read it. I've thought about it a few times. I think we need to look here. as regards the formation of the court ruling already in the courtroom. This is a different situation. As you say about the independence of the courts, I don't know if... Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but... ...you think... But that's the question... ...is a minute to ask a question. ...to the senator of the rapporteur. Do you think of an independent independent court or a court as an office? And a request to your marshal, I was about to say this in the course of Mr Borusewicz's proceedings, please pay attention to the senators not to use the concept of muzzle law in this Chamber. This bill isn't called that. Even if this name is used by various publicists whose representatives are in front of this room, it is used on the Internet, and somewhere, etc., it does not in any way entitle any senator, especially in this room, to call such a law, which is not called that. And please return... Mr. Senator... ...please pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u168	Mr. Senator, it's very good that you asked that question. Thank you. Why's that? Well, Dear Senator, I stand in my position, as the conductor of these deliberations, as a politician and as a citizen of the Republic of Poland, that no marshal of this House or of another House, but only voters, is entitled to assess the substantive statements of the representatives of the nation, both in the Seym and in the Senate, to any extent, unless there is a violation of good customs or law. Otherwise, Senator, we would have returned to the custom in this House, which I remember from the Chamber in which I have been sitting for the last four years, in which the marshal has usurped the right to assess how parliamentarians speak. Both you, Mr Senator, and everyone else in this House, have a mandate for citizens and for assessing what they say, whether wisely or unwisely, whether rightfully or wrongly, are entitled only to citizens. I would never want to be a censor in my life because I didn't go into politics for that and wasn't elected to this House, and that's not why I was elected senator in any way to interfere in the statements of other senators, provided they respect good customs and laws. I would therefore like to point out, also to the senator, that it is not a very good practice of this debate, in particular, that all sides of this dispute abuse the possibility of asking questions, but because both sides of this dispute abuse the possibility of asking questions to their own opinions, I will not interfere with it, because I would therefore have to be unfair to the debate that took place and I would like to treat everyone the same way. Therefore, I hope that this will be the last time Attention to the fact that these are questions, I would urge that, firstly, questions be questions and be addressed to the people to whom they should be addressed, and secondly, that each of the senators, because our rules allow it, their political opinions, polemic or not, expressed on this bill in a debate to which each senator has the right and in which each senator will have 10 minutes in the first round. That's the answer to your Senator's question. The way the senators call it, I have no influence, and I'm not going to interfere with it as long as I'm sitting in this chair. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I ask the senator to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u169	Dear Senator, High Izbo! As far as the laws of the state are concerned... You asked me what my personal opinion was, and I'll tell you. As far as the Act on a systemic nature is concerned, I believe that any amendment to such a law should be very carefully thought out and should follow the ordinary legislative path, i.e. already in the Lower House it should be a government project that follows the whole path that the rules provide for such draft laws. This law has been amended several dozen times since it was passed. In the last term, I'd say about nine times. That's all I know. That's the first line. Second point: Constitution. I'm just thinking about it about art. 179, that if we have an article. 179 Constitution, what's the idée fix of this article that says who's the judge... Yeah, I know, and I'm just gonna say what the idea is. The idea is that a person who has failed to pass the nomination process by a faultyly filled National Judicial Council could not be brought to the right of the plea that the court is not properly filled. That's what this bill is for. That's the answer to the second question. There was a third question, but I forgot, I'm sorry... It was, I suppose, addressed to me, about using such a term, not another term. No, no, there was one more question: why did you say that after this law was passed the courts... European courts won't recognize... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, that's what I said... I ask you to observe... I'm sorry. Don't interrupt each other. Senator Morawska-Stanecka didn't let me finish the question. I remember, I remember that question. Because I didn't remember, but as you said the beginning, Senator, I remembered what it was all about. The senator asked me why I'm scaring the public. I don't scare the public. If this law is passed, it may be that here in Poland, judges will not question whether the courts which issued the judgments in citizens' cases were properly filled because they will be afraid. The judges will simply be afraid of disciplinary sanctions, because this bill such sanctions for questioning the service relationship of a judge or the effectiveness of the appointment of a judge... This is a disciplinary delicacy written here. But the courts of the European Union Germany, France and any other country They will not be afraid because they are not afraid of the Minister of Justice in Poland or the Polish Disciplinary Chamber. Consequently, those courts will question the effective casting of the court which gave the judgment in question. Why? As they will use the judgment of the TSUE of 19 November 2019. Therefore, the Polish citizen I'll say it again. Who will divorce a citizen in Poland, for example France and have a child, and the Polish court will entrust this child here... If the other parent doesn't agree, and he wants to question it somehow from France, he will have reason to do so. If the Polish entrepreneur has a legal claim against the German entrepreneur and the enforcement authority in Germany has to execute it, execute it, he will have a reason... if the representative of the other party will submit such a request and will have reason to question it. That's what this is about. That's it. I said that in the international arena, that is, where we are dealing with citizens of the European Union, from other countries, our citizens will start to have problems. And that's the truth, that's the facts. I know it's hard to accept, but unfortunately, it all points to that. I am terribly sad because of this, and I am ashamed that Poland is censored.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u170	Thank you very much, Marshal. The next question you ask is Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, you have been mentioned on several occasions here about a certain priority of international agreements, ratified, over the constitution. You're recalling art. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitutions, and yet this provision concerns the ordinary law, not the fundamental law. You're misleading the public, Mrs. Marshal, unfortunately. That's one thing. In addition, I would like you to give an opinion on a legal and factual situation that is currently taking place in Spain. There was a verdict on one of the politicians who was convicted of participating in an illegal independence referendum in Catalonia. And the Supreme Court of Spain stated that, in fact, this judgment is incompatible with the constitution of Spain, it has just recognised the primacy of the Constitution over the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Constitution of Spain It is written directly in the article. It is based on the inextricable unity of the Spanish people. On this basis, the Supreme Court of Spain rejected the judgment. So what's it like? Then is Spain leaving the European Union? Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u172	That's right, Mrs. Marshal, if the senator has finished asking questions and it was addressed to your marshals, this is the moment when you have to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u173	Dear Senator, High Izbo! All this time in this discussion... I'm very precise about what I'm saying. I am talking about the primacy of European law before Polish law, I am not talking about the superiority of the Constitution, but one of the senators on your part is unfortunately changing my statements. The principle of priority is a fact. If the senator doesn't understand its essence, I'm afraid I can't explain it to the senator. I'm sorry. This is the principle of priority of EU law. She's performing, she's been repeatedly confirmed by the TSUE. Whether we like it or not, she is. That's the first line. There's another one, the question of Spain. It's Spain who has a problem. I stress: Spain has a problem. At this point, I am far from resolving the legal problems of Spain. I think Spain will deal with this problem as we should deal with the problem we have today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u174	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u175	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Would you call it, as you are here, that this is the way out or an attempt to exit Poland from the European Union... Would you also call the situation in Spain, adequate... I will not comment on the legal situation in Spain. This is not the subject of this meeting. Of course it's... It's not. ...because we're comparing certain legal systems in the Member States, and they're... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u176	You're welcome, gentlemen. We have really allowed quite a great deal of freedom for both sides of this House, but please follow the rules. I would also ask the senator very much for the wrong form of polemicism. I'm gonna let you ask extra questions because that's the practice. I'm sure I won't deny this right to anybody, but I would ask you very much to follow the rules. You're welcome. Does the senator have anything else to add? Thank you. Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u177	I'm very sorry, Marshal, but it'll be a question for you as well. To me again? I think maybe we'll let your marshal rest so he can keep on... Sure, absolutely, of course. I'm not gonna talk long. I have two questions. There's one thing we've been talking about. I have been very careful in working on this law in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I have also attended some of the meetings of the joint committees, but not all of them, which is why I am asking you. Has the government side, it seems, the actual creator of this law, in any way, given any argument that the law would help citizens to enforce their rights to a fair court to improve the judicial system? I ask, because from this law, from its letter, from what we read, and from what I have heard from the government, it is all about discipline of judges. Nothing else. Have you heard any reassuring assurances... If they implement this law, which, I hope, will not happen, then how they intend to protect citizens from the progressing, he is already at this moment, and will be even greater The legal chaos resulting from these bad regulations? The second question is what we have been debating for a long time, which is the main concern about this law, that it is not in conformity with the rules, because it does not exist, but with the principles in force in the European Union, in connection with the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the right to a fair trial, to independent judges and independent courts. I have heard from government representatives only and only verbal assurances. They believe otherwise that, contrary to the views of the TSUE, contrary to the opinions of previous regulations, also similar ones... The Disciplinary Chamber is the core of what we are talking about today. And this Disciplinary Chamber, as we can see, has been denied since yesterday by the European Commission, by the TSUE, as we know since November, by the Supreme Court and all the experts we have talked to, as well as experts from the Venice Commission and the OSCE. And the government side says, "I don't think so, and believe me. Have you heard any substantive arguments to reassure the government on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Marshal Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u179	No specific arguments were put forward with regard to any case. In fact, I answer the first question, this law is used to discipline judges, and the narration of the government party, which is still passing through the media, is that the judges are castaways, that the judges question the status of other judges. There's basically a reason for it all the time. There is absolutely no argument that citizens will have better, more effective and cheaper access to justice. Of course I do. And the second point about protecting citizens. Of course not. This is absolutely not in any debate. During no committee meeting, the public was not actually reassured that this law would not have such consequences. And here's the argument: no, because that's what we think. It's hard for me to answer a question for one time, e.g. explain the principle of priority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u180	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you. I ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to ask a question. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I've already focused. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the senator, your marshal, one such fundamental question for us as people meeting with our constituents. 'Cause they're asking straight: tell me so in human, 'cause your marshal has already given some examples of what the dangers are. And what's your Marshal's assessment? For us as citizens carry this bill? I mean, about the plot, the car, the accident, the settlement, and other things. Your marshal gave two of these examples. And I'm gonna have some more questions for you, Senator Blows, but that's for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u182	You're welcome, Marshal Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Of course, such threats exist. These are two types of threats. These are concrete legal and non-legal threats. The legal threats are precisely such that foreign courts, courts of the European Union will not respect the judgments of Polish courts precisely because they will not be sure whether the court was properly filled, i.e. whether the conditions of the European Convention on Human Rights have been met and whether it meets all the requirements of an independent, independent court which will decide the case objectively, free from any pressure. And that's what's gonna happen all over again. An example from ENA in Ireland was a clear example of the fact that such a doubt arose in the head of a judge. He asked the question. Of course, the answer to this question was positive, only that the case took some time. And when it comes to non-legal issues, I see such a progressive isolation of Poland in the European Union. Polish voice ten years ago, just a few years ago it was a significant voice in the European Union. We were really heard, and we thought it mattered. Today Poland is increasingly marginalized. It is no longer in this main stream, where decisions are made at your own request. I fear a threat to our safety, because no one will stand up for us even if we are slandered. Well, I'm actually a motion for a resolution that will be processed on Friday, a resolution on the statements of the President of the Russian Federation. Look at the international response. Nobody, officially, stood up for Poland. And this is the marginalization of Poland. We cannot afford, however, lying in the centre of Europe, to have countries around which we are not friends. The Union is us, the Union is our community. After all, there are our MEPs who wanted to be in the European Parliament, both on the one hand and on the other. So what happens after they get there? After all, the PiS boasted that the European elections had been won. Great! So what happened that suddenly this Union is alien to us, the enemy, that suddenly it's like a third country? After all, we are part of the European Union. These are the non-legal issues, this is the marginalization of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u184	Thank you very much, Marshal. As announced by the senator, there will now, as I understand it, be a question for the senator rapporteur. It's for Mr. Mark. It's for Mr. Mark. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal... But, Mr. Marshal, it's the principle that you can also listen to questions while sitting. Oh, now that I'm standing... But it's better to watch a handsome man stand there. It's not for me to judge the senator's beauty.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u185	Mr. Senator, we're not gonna talk about business anymore, because I think we're all tired at this time of night, and especially you, along with the marshal. So I'm going to ask two short questions. Mr. Senator, you said something a little earlier about systems in other countries, so I'm saying... 'Cause I don't think you were there when the other countries were at the band meeting. I'll say one thing. Believe me, I know you trust the Senators of the Civic Coalition, but believe me. I can quote the words of those people who talked about whether this system is similar. Well, in engineering, I'd say it's like a cathode and an anode. You could say that, but let's leave it, because there's something else I'd like to ask you. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about apoliticality, because this is an important element that you are moving. How do you understand apoliticality? I'd like you to answer that. If there is a protest of judges who are involved in matters of law that are being created, is that political commitment to you? I don't want to get into it the way it is in other countries. Okay? If it's okay, I'd ask for it. Or, for example, political commitment is to write on social media: vote for the Civic Coalition, this is the best party? Suppose the judge does. Which one of these cases do you think is political commitment? Which one can be accepted and which one should be disciplined? That's the first question. And the other. You said that there was such an imposition by the European Union of a model concerning proceedings in matters of court, in general, in Poland. We're the ones who want to create our own, so to speak, an independent model or is there a pattern? Yeah, I hear he's very good at American. Maybe American would be good, Mr. Senator? I suggest you take a look at the American system. He fits your philosophy very well, where the president chooses the judge. Maybe it's worth thinking about. I'm quite, quite serious, no jokes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. I firmly believe that each of the senators speaking in this House is very serious. Mr. Marshal, the senator, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u187	Mr. Senator, we're either talking on the bill, or we're talking about some of my instincts, but I'm gonna try to connect it. This apoliticality of judges is expressed in this law. We have also talked at least three times about the fact that there are certain terms here that will undoubtedly require interpretation. I'm not doing that interpretation right now. Well, this interpretation will belong to those authorities who will judge these matters in disciplinary proceedings. As for my private opinion, I am not one of those who advocate such a far-reaching principle of apoliticy of judges. I would interpret it in an expansive way, as I said before. For me, it is unthinkable that a Polish judge, e.g. was a member of the political party. And since you're referring to the American model, I'm going to say in a way I like the rule of American law, for example, that the judge only talks about politics with his wife at breakfast and that the judge speaks through judgments. To me, it's above all a crown rule. If the judge has ambitions for political activity, then he should simply suspend the toga, he should give up his status and choose another career. From the very beginning... What else is political activity and what else is justice. These are very serious things, but they're separate. Mr. Marshal, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Just a little bit... I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u189	Mr. Senator, I will return to this apoliticity here in Poland. If we're talking about the fact that there's someone on social media who writes that this party is good, that we support it, and so on... Do you think that's apoliticism? What if somebody's protesting against a bad law? You're the equal, aren't you? In your opinion...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u190	Mr. Senator, don't give me any more trouble. What I had to say in that respect, I said. Every time this law enters into force, such activities will be assessed by the relevant authorities on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u191	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Philip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have questions for both your rapporteurs and these are questions related to the opinion of our Legislative Bureau on this bill that we have received. Senator Czarnobaj... In our opinion, our legislators refer to the Bak case against Hungary It was a matter of the head of the Hungarian Constitutional Court and, quoting this judgment, it states: issues relating to the functioning of the judiciary fall within the public interest on which the debate is usually subject to a high level of protection; even if the issues at issue have political implications, this is not enough to prevent the judge from speaking on the matter. Well, I have a question for you, sir. This is a question for the Senator and the Marshal. If, therefore, judges go in a demonstration that clearly concerns the shape of the bill that we are debating, are they politically involved, or are they politically involved in the light of this judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which I quoted? And line two. The second quote from our Legislative Office's opinion: introducing legal regulations that create inconsistent and unexplainable regulations in accordance with other legal provisions. This is in the opinion that the Legislative Bureau has provided. I would like to ask both your rapporteurs whether they agree with this opinion. Mr. Senator Pęk, of course, may disagree with this and think that this is consistent, but if you agree with this opinion, then my next question is: what was the purpose of such legislation, which our Legislative Office considers to be illogical and inconsistent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u194	Senator, I answer the first question: yes, they are politically involved. And I answer the second question in this way: this is the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, with which I disagree.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u195	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Libicki have... I'll answer that. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal. No further questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u196	The answer to the senator's question about the Bak case against Hungary and that opinion. The judges even have an obligation to speak on matters that concern the organisation of justice. I've been explaining it since I got out of the judge's vows. The judge vows to uphold the law. So if someone breaks the law, no matter who it is, even if it is a legislator, then the judge has a duty to uphold the law. Here I'm going to combine this with this second question: so, if the judge... judges use different instruments, explain to citizens this right, protest, want to talk, report their own projects. Nobody listens to them, we've known that for a few years. Therefore, if they are protesting against such a law, which in fact serves only discipline, greater subjection to judges, it is also to uphold the law. They're also EU judges. I'm going back to that. They are not only Polish judges, they are also judges of the European Union, because their judgments are respected by all authorities in the countries of the European Union. That is why they are also upholding the law of the European Union, just as they are guarding our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u197	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please take the floor and ask Senator Joanna Sekula for questioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm here to see you, Marshal. In your statement, you used a certain statement. I would like to ask how the judicial authority enters into the powers of the executive authority and what you believe will prevent it from doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u200	Well, first of all, Senator, I'm talking about questioning the status of a judge. The Constitution makes it clear who the judge is. This is where the judges came under the President's authority. This is to prevent a clear conviction of who the judge is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u202	Mr. Marshal, I would like to address my question to your Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, the first question, very specific, in terms of art. The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. I ask your opinion on whether ratified international agreements have priority over the constitution. I'm asking because you operated here as a priority. Let's set this: compatibility, other concepts, first place. What comes first: the Constitution or ratified international agreements? The article...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome... Just a moment, Mr... I'm so sorry. Well, maybe I'll answer the question, and then you'll ask another one. Very good. Yes, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u204	Art. The 9th Constitution states that the Republic of Poland respects its binding international law. The Constitution itself provides for this, in its Article. 9 provides that the Republic of Poland respects international law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u205	Thank you very much, Marshal. I ask the senator to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u206	You questioned in one of the statements, a little earlier, in the form of a refund in a faulty way the KRS... Now I don't know how to understand it. Maybe you can explain that. Is it about the facts, something happened that was defectively filled, or about the legal status? As regards legal status, the Constitutional Tribunal stated in its judgment K 12/18 of 25 March 2019 that the way the Sejm casts, in particular 15 judges by the Sejm, is in line with our constitution. So what's the flaw? Do you have any information that the Constitutional Tribunal didn't have?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you, Marshal of the rapporteur, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u208	As far as the issue of failure to fill the National Judicial Council is concerned, everyone in this Chamber knows what this defect is all about. I don't know. Explain. The National Judicial Council in part was to be elected in accordance with the Constitution by judges and was elected by Parliament. We all know that. Of the judges, not the judges. Good. I said... The judges elected their representatives to the National Judicial Council. It wasn't guaranteed to the judges. You probably did this in 2016. And I used that phrase because the National Judicial Council, by the way in which it was selected, did not meet this requirement from the test, the requirement of an objective body to nominate judges. I also used the wording of the first-born sin. The first sin of all this is this law on the National Council of Courts, which should be amended. And there should be a legal condition restored.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u209	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u210	Mr. Marshal, an additional question. Does this mean that any tests are more important than the Constitutional Court's judgments at the moment? Our Constitutional Tribunal is a constitutional body with constitutional powers. Unless... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Some kind of test. I didn't find the words "test" in our constitution, but maybe that's... You'll prove it to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u211	Dear Senator, I don't have to prove anything to you. This is the first point. The second point is that even the judge of the Constitutional Court, Judge Wyrembak He is also a nominated judge appointed to take the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal and stated that the Constitutional Tribunal had lost its capacity to fulfil its constitutional tasks. This is the opinion of Judge Wyrembak, a sentence expressed in public media and presented in a letter to the marshal. This shows the role of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u212	Thank you very much. And that's what decided that test, right? Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to say that the list of senators who signed up to ask questions has been exhausted. I would like to thank you very much for the extremely comprehensive debate and for the participation of both the senators and, above all, the rapporteurs, because you have spent many hours in the stand. Thank you very much for this debate. I'm declaring a recess. I would like to inform you that 15 minutes after the 16th, when we resume our deliberations, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro will come to us, as I was informed. He will address the government's position on this issue, and then you will be able to address questions to the Minister, the Government, in this respect. Thank you very much for the debate. Quarter past four, we meet again in this room. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 52 to 16 minutes 17]] The Senators have received a request from the Law and Justice Club to extend the break until 4:30 p.m., which I hereby do. I'm declaring a recess until 4:30. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 18 to 16 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u213	I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. Would the Ministry's representative, Minister Ziobro or other minister, like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government on this item on the agenda? He'd like that. So you can, as I understand it... Of course! If he wants to, maybe. Great. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about a problem that, you can say, has been growing in the consciousness of Poles for the last 30 years, and no government could and could not solve it. On the problem of the disabled Polish judiciary. We're also talking about On the other hand, the dream of many Poles who would like this judiciary to be efficient, professional, to resolve legal conflicts with which citizens go to court in time, to show respect for those who are there, regardless of their role as defendants. And the question arises: where did this helplessness come from? In turn, when we look at the cross-section of recent years, since 1989, governments that have not been able to cope with this growing problem and which, despite the huge financial expenditures that have grown year by year over the past decades, have not solved the problem of pending court proceedings, the lack of culture in courtrooms and events about which the public was aware due to media reports of unworthy occupations that are incompatible with the principle of professional integrity of judges' behaviour, both during and outside the proceedings? Many experts, looking for answers to this question, had hopes of changing legal procedures, speeding up proceedings, which would be a remedy for the problems of the Polish judiciary. But here we can also look at the achievements of individual governments, and I stress: also the governments of SLD, AWS, Platforms, PSL. So? Nothing. The effects, you could say, were like this. the same as in the case of the implementation of the huge expectations of financial support. Because Poland, let's remember, is one of the top European countries in terms of the amount of funding from the state budget involved in the judiciary. If we compare all the countries of the European Union, we will see that we are in the top five, and if we compare the largest European countries, it will turn out that we are among the first three countries that place the most on the judiciary. And then nothing, and then the results are mediocre. Therefore, it is worth considering such reflection that elsewhere we need to look at the main causes of problems of the Polish judiciary. Not in procedures, not in money, but in an overgrown, exploded corporation that became a corporation acting as a state in a country that was outside any democratic control mechanism, which meant that without this control it would put the selfish, corporate interest over the interests of the entire society, which the efficient judiciary was supposed to serve. But in order not to limit myself solely to the diagnosis of my environment, I will appeal to a few quotes, which are worth recalling, because it is worth noting that it is not true what we hear today, that here are the proposals made by us, aiming precisely at the introduction of democratic mechanisms, a mechanism of balance between the authorities, a mechanism of transparency in the appointment of judges, that is, an attack on the judiciary, that is, an attempt on independence, these are some ideas from totalitarian states. So I will remind you of the statement of a man who cannot be suspected of having relations with the Law and Justice or Solidarna Polska, a man who does not work with the Ministry of Justice every day and does not co-construct the solutions that we are proposing, but a man who in 2004, when there was not yet this battlefield, full of emotions on which the dust of battle rises and does not allow us to take a fair, factual look at the essence of the problem, as is the case today. He doesn't allow it today, then he lets it... Well, we're talking about Professor Andrzej Rzepliński. As I understand it, he is an authority for many of you sitting here, President of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2010/2016, previously a member of the Helsinki Committee and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. Well, in my interview for the newspaper, and not for any newspaper, but for the Gazeta Wyborcza, in 2004, as I mentioned, I found that the National Council of Justice of that time was... what? A state trade union that preserves the interests of the Polish judiciary. I will recall this quote so that there is no doubt: a state trade union that preserves the interests of the Polish judiciary. This is the KRS, which part of the state with such passion and such an acquisition of arms, saying that it was the essence, the essence of independence, independence, the correct operation of the Polish judiciary. This is the KRS which President Gersdorf says is, you can say, an emanation of everything that is good in Polish judiciary, wielanka and the proper functioning of the Polish judiciary. It is strange that these opinions are not shared by the vast majority of Poles, and consistently, over long years of research, one can refer to CBOS research, which has been carried out annually in the field of judicial trust and judicial evaluation. But that's not all Prof. Rzepliński said in 2004 for the Gazeta Wyborcza. He kept talking, it's very interesting. Namely, he added that the courts and judges gather At the time, he judged it that way. More negative assessments, more negative than positive. The media, pointed out, reported a number of people with flawless characters at all. Corruption cases, drunken judges in courthouses and drunken judges behind the wheel of cars, judges of the perpetrators of common crimes. As for some of these issues, he added, the existing statutory correction mechanisms are helpless against the power of the agreement, against the manifestations of the publicly demonstrated mentality of the besieged fortress of the most important structures of our judiciary. It's 2004. What has changed in the news of this assessment? It has changed that the Government of the United Right, the Government of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska, the Agreement, decided to take this diagnosis seriously, sharing it fully, and decided to learn from it. But let us give the floor to Prof. Rzepliński, whose authority you do not want, I think, to question, who in his statements from that time during the work of the Constitutional Commission of the Polish Parliament was in favour of filling positions in the judiciary with the participation of... who? Or are the judges themselves, who are to select their representation for the National Courts? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's Mr. Prof. Rzepliński diagnosed the need to change this system, the need for a balance of authorities. He did not see this attack on the independence and independence of the judiciary at all. It was he who then made the call for the representatives of the National Courts to be elected with the participation of the legislative and executive authority, looking at this I quote: The antidote to the dangerous phenomenon of corporateism affecting the judicial environment. And it can be said that in the sucurs of this kind of diagnosis are the statements of other people who, often by the environment of today's opposition, are referred to as the banners as authorities, people worthy of hearing and acknowledging their right. Namely, another President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Jerzy Stępień, President in 2006 and 2008 in an interview with the Legal Gazeta in 2014 expressed his assessment of the then National Court of Justice. What was the assessment? Was that a card? Was it appropriate and correct for the protection of independence and independence of the Polish judiciary? It's nothing like that, my dears. The President of Stępień said: "National Council of the Court of Justice" Not the one after the changes, as it is maliciously called, the new KRS, just the old KRS It cares about the interests of the judicial corporation, but it is not an organ that cares about true independence. Let me quote again: he cares about the interests of the judicial corporation, but he is not an organ that cares about true independence. Well, full agreement, that's exactly what we're saying, which is why we're proposing our solutions, and we're not treating them as an attempt on independence and judicial independence. He also stated that the KRS in practice, the then KRS and its operation, is the place to call candidates for judges. Everyone comes in there with their candidate and makes sure he's the one who gets through. This isn't the best place. This is what the President of Stępień, President of the Constitutional Tribunal, said in 2006 and 2008 to decide who will be the judge. Let us go into the sphere of statements of politicians of today's opposition and programmes, programme proposals, which were formulated as a remedy for problems related to Polish judiciary, and which were addressed to the voters of these parties before the next parliamentary elections. In 2007, Mr Jan Rokita was the head of the Civic Platform programme team. Acting, I understand, from Donald Tusk's nomination, he then formulated his views exactly in line with those we just heard, namely that the corporate model of justice is a disaster. He argued, pointed out that it was Prof. Rzepliński, with whom he cooperated, that the condition for the recovery of the justice system was to break up the judges of the National Judicial Council. And in the programme proposals, because these were followed by the proposals of the state, ladies and gentlemen, from the then Civic Platform with Donald Tusk at the head, Donald Tusk, Grzegorz Schetin and all those leading politicians who then played the leading roles in their party and consciously supported the program that they preached... Well, in the proposals of the Citizens' Platform in 2007, Donald Tusk's party, we find the view of criticizing the corporateism of the KRS and the demand for a change in the way its composition was chosen, which was the request that 22 members, because that was the vision of the council, be elected by the Sejm. So whose idea is it that this parliament should choose the members of the National Courts? Is it possible for members of the Civic Platform to present a mechanism that is an attempt on the independence and independence of the judiciary? Is that possible? Well, that's how I read here. In that case, I ask whether this is the 2007 Civil Platform programme. Moreover, in this programme, the Civic Platform went even further because it called for a break with the principle that there is a numerical advantage for judges in the National Courts, proposing that representatives of various legal professions should be appointed, so that this advantage of judges elected by the Sejm should not be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the discussion on whether corporateism is one of the main and perhaps the main cause of the problems of the Polish judiciary is a discussion for a long debate and I will not continue it now, but there is no doubt that the diagnosis related to the cause of these growing problems, the diagnosis which led to the conclusion that it is the corporateism and the misorganised structure of the judiciary, deprived of due democratic and non-transparent control, are the main problems of the Polish judiciary, first of all appeared and was explained in a very precise and explicit way in the programme of the Civic Platform, and not the Law and Justice. And we fully confirm this diagnosis, we share this opinion, which has been exposed in such strong and hard words both in the Civic Platform programme and by the Civic Platform experts. In this regard, we believe that the course of events since 2007 has merely confirmed the validity of the reasoning behind the introduction of a mixed model, a more transparent model, a more democratic model, a model that will make democracy not fiction and facade. Let us be honest that the Polish model, the corporate model of the structure of the judiciary, grew from the times of the Round Table Agreement, when it seemed as part of the compromise with the Communists that the optimal solution was to agree to such a solution, so that the judicial authority would be as isolated from the communist power of that time. But just because it was the wisdom of the stage does not mean that it was also the wisdom of the democratic transformation of the Polish state, because it led to the fact that the judges who, however, came from the State apparatus of the Polish People's Republic of... I do not want to be misunderstood by you, because certainly among these judges there were many valuable people who were honest and honest about their tasks, but let us remember that they were judges who had been appointed not democratic KRS, not corporate KRS, but the nomination of the Council of State, the communist authority, the power having communist legitimacy, which actually drew its authority from the bayonets of the Soviet army which was stationed in Poland. There was the legitimacy of those who were then appointed to exercise the third power. And in this context, we need to see the consequences of the changes that have occurred in this environment, an environment not covered by any democratic control process, because the judicial council, elected from judges elected and approved by the Council of State, then appointed further judges. What was the involvement of the democratic factor in the verification of this process? Parliament, Sejm, Senate, local government and president Poles elected By refusing certain persons the right to continue their mission in democratic elections. And what impact did Poles have on the choice and functioning of certain judges within the judicial structure? Let's be honest: none. He was merely referring to a certain formality, which was the President's signature under the act of calling more judges. After all, it was the then National Judicial Council in its resolutions and experts associated with it that the President's role was really limited to the role of the notary approving the process which goes through the corporate mills of the Polish judicial system. So, Dear State, corporateism as a problem and as one of the main causes of chronicity, lack of professionalism, also allowing unworthy, wicked behaviour of part of the judicial environment, has been defined not by us, but by other political environments, today pretending to forget and obscure the passage of time, pretending that they did not claim what they claimed, and did not diagnose the problem as they diagnosed it. Our proposals, which are at the root of today's legislative and legislative changes, are nothing but an expression of respect for the democratic rule of law. With emphasis on the word 'democratic', i.e. referring to those mechanisms that make not only judges themselves, but also citizens through the electoral mechanism, the parliamentary mechanism, have an indirect influence on how the staff of the Polish judiciary are shaped. They have this effect in such a way that when they choose parliamentarians, they can assume that this parliamentary majority The majority is not ordinary, but the majority of the 3/5 judges will be elected to the National Judicial Council according to such criteria as to ensure that professional and decent people in the future will be sent to both the Polish general court and the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court. This mechanism was never there before. Moreover, these changes which we have introduced also gave Poles a chance to follow the process of appointing judges at the stage of the decision of the National Judicial Council. Let me remind you that previously, the National Judicial Council operated secretly. There the actions were not public in the sense that no one could verify how these votes took place. I participated in such votes as Minister of Justice in 2005 and at the beginning, before the change of the judicial council... I can assure you that it was almost a rule that the judges who were proposed as candidates for specific positions passed unanimously. Today, if someone is watching a debate in the National Court of Justice, supposedly politicized, they can see that they often go through not unanimously, but with just one vote, after the turbulent debates, discussions and disputes that are taking place in the current National Court of Justice. What does that say? Is it about democracy's shortcomings or about the advantages of democracy? No one wants to convince you that the democratic system is an ideal system. Churchill used to say it was a terrible system, but he also said no one could come up with a better one. If we have a choice between the corporate system and the democratic system... With the shortcomings of the democratic system regarding the control and election of judges, we voted in favour of the democratic system. As previously proposed by the Civic Platform, as previously formulated by Jan Rokita, as previously said by Prof. Rzepliński, which he no longer remembers today. So it is worth reminding. It is also worth remembering that the demands of introducing other environments than corporate environments into the process of the election of judges are also related to behaviours which have been extremely disgusting to the Polish public, cases of impunity, hiding behind immunity, the sense of this extraordinary caste... I allowed myself before coming to you to ask your press office to print, so quickly, media information about this kind of story of shocking, scandalous, projecting on the whole environment since 2016. I'll give you some. The judge of the loan shark will not be punished by a quote from one, in principle from several journalism titles. The year 2016... The court misjudged the verdicts. There is no responsibility, the judge may lie with impunity, including the judge who was photographed when he was speeding and the Supreme Court found that he was allowed to lie. A normal citizen, a Pole in such a situation is not allowed to lie, but a judge is allowed to lie. The judge was stealing parts for the drill... You'll stop now, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, that's an example that, in particular... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Get out of the room! ...calls a heck of a... Calm down, please! ...the madness and rage of those who contest today's changes, as well as TVN TV, who wants to bring this case to an even funny, funny thing that you can grab sides and break sides. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, one of the many cases involving the theft by a judge... Of course, in every corporation, I want to add, there may be a man who will steal something that will behave unworthyly. But there's something else about this case. This isn't about stealing a drill. This is about what the Supreme Court did to this case. The Supreme Court, the judge caught in the act of stealing a drill costing several hundred zlotys in one of the hypermarkets, found himself worthy of further the judicial function, found himself an impeccable person and considered that he could still judge other thieves as a criminal judge. And that maybe in a toga, with an eagle in a crown, continue to punish other thieves, e.g. One who'll steal the same drill in this store. Because, of course, he had to return the drill when he was caught red-handed. This is not about an example of this particular theft, which some want to bring to absurdity and ridicule, but it is about the Supreme Court, which has responded in a specific way to this event, in which there was no doubt about the judge's guilt. Do you really believe that a judge who's been caught red-handed in camera stealing in broad daylight may continue to judge and punish other thieves in criminal court? Do you think this is normal? Do you think this is an expression of the healthy functioning of corporate justice in today's mechanism that we... Well, I mean, not in today, in the mechanism that we have decided to change until recently, we have introduced the Disciplinary Chamber for this very reason. Are you ready to defend it? You can rip sides, you can bring a thing to absurdity, you can ridicule, but such examples can be given without a few, of course stealing... But once again, that's not what this is about. It's about how the Supreme Court you're defending reacted to this. He gave a glitch of impunity, showed that he treated this judge and other judges in a similar situation as this extraordinary caste. And that's not what we're authorized to do. And that is not the consent of the Poles. I can give you more examples. The judge and his wife were stealing from electronics stores, which is also an extremely meaningful example, Dear Sire, it is worth mentioning. Your wife has been charged within 48 hours, and your judge has been charged for over a year, almost a year and a half since the incident. Eloquent, significant, but luckily, he at least heard the charges. I could bring up more examples here, but I stress: the problem is not that there are black sheep, people who behave unworthyly and break social standards, break legal standards and bring shame to the whole environment, but the problem is what Prof. Rzepliński said in this quote, which I first took the liberty of quoting. Because these mechanisms of corporate selfishness make it possible, instead of responding properly to such situations, to remove these black sheep, to defend the good honor of the other judges, to defend them. This example with a drill is an excellent example of this, an excellent illustration. Therefore, I am not surprised that such great aggression, rage and fierceness are directed towards the Disciplinary Chamber, precisely the court which has and had the task of introducing different standards. And I have to tell you, he's setting different standards. We're out of time to wait for immunity to be lifted for months if the case goes to trial and there's a secondary stage. The time of chronicity or mildness has ended in reacting to the behaviour of judges who violate the dignity of the profession, which cause social outrage and are a cause of appallment to Poles. This House has finally begun to act decisively and decisively. That was her job. And what's wrong with that? Isn't that what this was all about? As the Ministry of Justice, we have ordered research in a highly reputable, respected public opinion polling institution at Kantar's media home. It turns out that only 1/5 Poles were ready to defend the current model of disciplinary responsibility, and the others, most respondents, were in favour of setting up a specialised court, a Disciplinary Chamber at the Supreme Court, which would judge severely and quickly the issues of wicked behaviour, transgressions or crimes of the judicial community. There we find the answer to the question of what Poles think about it. And now the question is: why such resistance? I understand that part of the judge's community, part of the extraordinary caste environment that defends its privileges, defends its apanasia, defends its influence and defends what would be next if it were... But I am surprised that this part of the democratic environment, which in particular once well diagnosed the problem and how well it proposed solutions, today forgets its recommendations and attacks solutions that are, you can say, a simple continuation of their prescriptions and diagnoses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an aspect of the allegations. It is entirely unfounded that we have introduced a democratic mechanism in the process of setting up courts, as well as the introduction of a special court, which is tasked with resolving matters relating to the delicacies of judges. But there are also allegations of a different nature, important, general, to which I would like to address. Namely, I hear now that our solutions are supposedly contrary to European order, that this model we have introduced, the politicisation of the courts, quote: It is an assassination attempt on European standards. Well, if that were the case, it would be worth a serious reflection, but the problem is, ladies and gentlemen... How easy it is to see that this is not so much an argument full of demagogy and deception as it simply is Forgive the word, youthful language Sucking people's crap. Let us appeal to the largest European democracy, the strongest European state, our western neighbours. Germany. How's it built in there? Who's calling the judges? Who has the power to make a particular person the judge of their supreme courts, the federal courts? Do the judges do that? We know. Do the judges do that? Is this done by the judicial board? We've known since yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not done by the judges. The judges can only express their opinion. That's where they start and their power ends. This is not done by the judicial board because the Germans did not set up the judicial council at all. Only German politicians make decisions on who will be the judge of federal courts. There is a panel for the election of judges, which consists of 16 state ministers of justice, i.e. representatives of the executive authority, perhaps in a number of cases without even democratic legitimacy. On the other hand, we have 16 representatives of the Bundestag. And these people, political nominators, blood and bone politicians in the vast majority... The Bundestag may, of course, choose an expert if it wishes, but they are usually politicians pointed out by the specific political parties of this body. And they decide who will be the judge of what federal court. But their decision isn't binding anyway, because eventually he has to agree to all of this... who? The German Government as Minister of Justice. Let's compare these 2 models, ours that we introduced in Poland, and the German ones. We have proposed that judges, who are the majority of the Polish judicial council, continue to have a dominant influence on who will be the judge in the future. We have proposed that these judges should be elected to the judicial council by Parliament, but not by a simple majority needed to form a government, but by a qualified majority, which no political party can obtain on its own. It's never been 3/5 in history. That's exactly what it is, but, Minister... Two-thirds of the squad. Mr. Senator, you can ask. Don't bother me now. Well, that's what the bill says. What if there's no 3/5? Why are you interrupting? That's the proposal, that's how it was built in the bill. This is how they were elected, by a majority of 3/5, judges of the judicial council who today function in the National Courts. You can check it out. The opposition refused to vote. On the other hand, we have a German model. Only politicians are selected for the judicial committee there. Which model violates democratic standards of influence of politicians on the election of judges: Polish or German? Polish. If that's the case... Well, we will agree on elementary matters that the German system completely politicalizes the appointing of judges, and the Polish introduces political mechanisms. They are democratic mechanisms, but with an important limitation, such that judges are elected for terms of office, no longer have any connection with the executive authority, they have a guarantee of irrevocability during their term of office, they have a guarantee of irrevocability as judges. In addition, they are guaranteed not to move to other positions, because this is what the Polish constitution requires. They have guarantees resulting from immunity, which is the widest in Europe, which is guaranteed by a state of rest, which no politician can take away from them. On what basis do you claim that the German system is more apolitical than the Polish system that the German system is within European standards and that the Polish system does not fit? Perhaps we should ask another question: is it not by chance I have such an irrefutable impression, as I meet with the ministers of justice of some Western European countries, that we, Poles others want to tell me less slowly? Nam, the Germans, let's go. Nam, Dutch, slow. We, the Swedes, are free to go. But you, Poles? Bullshit! Are we supposed to accept this kind of rhetoric? Should we agree to build 2 categories of European Union citizens: such a category as: German citizen, who is so bright, so mature, grows out of such a legal culture, German that he is allowed to have democratic elections indirectly affecting who will be the judge of the German federal courts, the equivalent of our Supreme Court... But Polish citizens must not, even indirectly, select judges from the judicial council at one time. Poles aren't allowed, Germans are allowed, right? Who says it's allowed and it's not allowed? Who says the Swedes are free? After all, the judicial council in Sweden is and is set up by executive authorities, not even by parliament. And that judicial council decides who's gonna be the judge. Swedish people are allowed, Germans are allowed, Poles are not allowed. I think we know from history such accents I don't want to go deep. Who say that one was allowed to do more, others were allowed to do less. Some had a culture that allowed for a number of privileges and claimed special rights, and others had these rights, even basic ones, taken away. Well, we Poles, regardless of what political option we are from, cannot accept such thinking, cannot agree to such accents, even remember history and remember what is related to our basic interests now. This is not only about what is allowed for Poland as a state, which is allowed for Germany as a state, which is allowed for Sweden as a state, but also about what is the scope of freedom and subjective rights of Polish citizens, as citizens of the European Union, and what is the scope of freedom of German citizens. So if we agree And we have to agree with that because no one is questioning the German model. The fact that judges are allowed to be elected in the democratic procedure, with important or leading, in principle even the sole participation of politicians, is that in Poland we can introduce elements of democratic mechanisms to the election of judges in the process of shaping the third power. After all, no one is accusing Germany that their judicial environment, the judges chosen under purely political mechanisms, are not independent, independent judges. They have all the guarantees of independence, independence, unrevocable, they cannot be transferred from district to district, they have a guarantee of full pay, no politicians can interfere with their further career. So, in one word, my dear fellow Members, the allegation that our solutions are contrary to existing European standards is purely demagogical. The European Treaties clearly state that the issue of regulation of judicial systems is a matter for the exclusive power of individual states. And the narrative of some of the political environments in our country, which goes into a sucursive position that is very clear from the statements of some European politicians: we are allowed, but they are not allowed, we are mature, we have a beautiful legal culture, we have a clear look and it is appropriate for us to participate in the process of appointing judges, and we cannot allow Poles to do so... Well, we can't agree to that. And I ask you to consider whether such rhetoric is acceptable in the course of conducting a discourse on changes in Polish judiciary. So, summing up: both with regard to the mechanism for appointing judges, the strict democratic mechanism, as well as with regard to the legal assessment of this mechanism, in terms not only of the Polish Polish constitution, but also of the European dimension, there is no doubt that we are acting within the framework of the standards that are acceptable. And finally, it's a strict bill. My deputy ministers will answer the specific questions of the senators directly, who are also expertly involved in this law, but allow me to appeal in this speech on more general matters. We hear that judges in Poland today want to question the status of other judges appointed by the President. We hear that the status of such judges, and thus their judgments, may be challenged in the case of nearly half a thousand new judges appointed by the National Courts Council. So we hear that it is really threatening Polish citizens with the process of anarchy, chaos and legal uncertainty, which would inevitably be the consequence of this state of affairs. We are hearing about a phenomenon which has not yet been known in any of the democratic European countries, and I can tell you as a representative of the Government of the Republic that the government cannot accept this kind of situation. We cannot accept the situation that Polish citizens are treated as hostages by a part of the environment, a politicized environment, judges who, in order to implement, defend their selfish, specific interests, introduce politics into the courtroom and try to really create anarchy in the system itself, without giving any assurance that the judgment that was given is a judgment that will remain, without giving any assurance that the situation created by some of the politicised judicial environment will not lead to complete chaos and anarchy. Because if we follow the logic of this kind of view, that we can question the judgments of the judges appointed by the democratically elected judicial council, then the question will arise: what next? In such a situation, there may also be judges who ask questions about judgments given by judges appointed by the previous judicial council. And yet you know very well that the Constitutional Tribunal stated last year that the previously functioning judicial council, so corporately established, acted in a manner contrary to the Polish constitution, violated the constitutional principle of the cadence of this body. It was called faulty, i.e. those appointed to this judicial council acted as part of a legal defect. If we accept this logic, then we could question the judgments of all of them over the years. But let's move on. Since Senator Borowski is so curious about legal-historical reflections, the question arises as to whether he is able to answer whether the communist Council of the State in which he participated, while in the leading party, actually had democratic legitimacy to appoint judges. Do you know that such judges appointed by the communist council in Poland today operate more than a thousand? And Mr. Peterovich... A thousand judges. Mr. Peterovich... And that's what... This is... But... Don't be nervous. Hit the table, the scissors will talk. Hit the table, the P.Z.P.R.'s gonna get back to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u215	Excuse me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Truth in the eyes of the circle. I... Mr. Senator, you can correct it, but after that speech. In corrigendum mode. I'd be happy to use it. Thank you very much. Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u216	In a word, a thousand judges who were appointed not by the judicial council elected by qualified majority by the Polish Parliament, democratic parliament, not by the judicial council... were not elected by the corporate council, but by the communist Council of the State, which among others. introduced martial law in Poland and convinced all actions of the communist regime aimed at Polish democracy, Polish judiciary, Polish independence and the rights of Polish citizens. I would not like it to sound so that I believe that all the judges appointed by the Council of State are judges involved in this system. That's not true. There are many decent people who have been called and behaved decently, although there have been many who have not necessarily been able to cope with the challenges, the responsibility of exercising third power. But we refer to the principle and if we agree to what some judges propose, so-called. Warrior, extraordinary caste, i.e. that the status of the judge appointed by the democratically elected President, the judge appointed by the democratically appointed judicial council, can be questioned, and even should be questioned, the status of the judges appointed by the Council of States. This will lead to complete anarchy and blowing up hundreds, thousands, millions of sentences that have passed over the years in Poland. And that can't be allowed. This law is the answer to the anarchy, the attempt to anarchize the system, resulting from the politicization of parts of the environment, resulting from the defence of what was, as it was, without looking at the consequences, without looking at the effects. This law is a response to behavior, irresponsible behaviour, which is an attempt to take hostages of Polish citizens, whose millions have stood before courts over the years and who can expect legal certainty of court decisions. I would therefore like to tell you that the proposed law is an expression of the defence of the democratic rule of law and opposition to the judiciary, anarchy, chaos and lawlessness, which is linked to the politicisation of part of the judicial environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u217	Thank you, Minister. I'll have a few questions for you directly, but now Mr. Senator Borowski in corrigendum with regard to calling his name.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u218	The Minister was polite to refer to the past, to the Council of State which appointed judges, etc., which would indicate that it is extremely critical, despite all this, but the presence of Mr.Piotrowicz... He wasn't a judge. Even worse, he was a prosecutor. Not to mention the fact that he was defending a paedophile priest from Tylava is much later. In any case, he by the Minister is pushed, fortified, praised and finally elected to the Constitutional Tribunal. So I'd suggest a little more careful... Mrs. Julia Przyłębska... Well, wasn't she also appointed judge back then? I don't think that's the argument you're making here. And as for the corporateism you were talking about... The Lord has made a point, namely that it is not a matter of money for judges, it is not a matter of jobs that need to be filled, it is not a matter of organization, computerization, assistants, etc., etc., it is just a matter of corporation. This is your new thesis you're making now because you used to say otherwise. Of course, you were talking about the need to improve, the need to accelerate, the need to add money, etc. In your opinion, corporateism must be fought and what you do fights this corporateism, because before that, there were guys. And now, sir, in the National Court Council we have judges like Nawatski, Dudzicz, Puchalski, Drajewicz, Mitera, all involved in the hater affair. Mr. Zaradkiewicz, who you personally, as you could see... Mr. Senator, this is not a correction. ...he was pushing, sir, to the Supreme Court... This isn't a guy thing? And finally, I'm going back to Mr. Puchalski. Mr.Rafal Puchalski, a judge from Gorzów, if my memory is correct, on Facebook, officially signed up to support the government of PiS, Beata Szydło and President Duda. With such political commitment, you should demand consequences. What happened? You took him to the ministry, and then you took him to the National Judicial Council. Sir, you've replaced the old guys with the new guys. You didn't propose a reasonable reform, you just offered to trade them for yours. And that's the whole correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u219	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to refer to you, sir, if you don't mind... You're welcome, but it's short.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u220	You're wrong, Mr. Marshal Borowski. You're wrong because you're projecting your own thoughts and beliefs, thinking I share them. Well, unlike you, I don't question the legality of the judges' actions, and from any time they've been nominated, they come from their judicial careers. I did not question the functioning of these thousands of judges, and before that others, their colleagues. In the meantime, many who were appointed by the Council of State have retired. I thought that the consequences of changes in Poland... Because I realized that it would necessarily lead to the dismantling of the entire system and complete anarchy. Of course, this does not mean that I do not see the lack of accountability and lack of accountability of judges who committed injustice during this period, even those judges who issued numerous death sentences. None of them had any consequences, although more than 100 were still in operation after 1989. No... No, I'm sorry, one judge was responsible for the political sentences he later gave, after Stalinist. And a whole bunch of hundreds of judges or thousands maybe, because it is a serious number of judges that did not have such consequences. And I'm definitely critical of that. But unlike you, I do not question, regardless of the time of the historical appointment of today's current judges, their legitimacy to exercise third power, since they have been sanctioned by legal changes and the Polish constitution which entered into force. You, in turn, support these actions that are being undertaken today by the so-called environment. The extraordinary caste is just sanctioning the questioning of legitimacy, the appointment of a part of the judges, and it is not precisely those whose source is the decision of the Communist Council of State, but those whose source is the decision of the democratically elected National Judicial Council. And that's where you and your environment look at the reasons why they're politicized. So there was no politicization, and here is politicisation. Well, to put it mildly, there's a big gap in your thinking and the logic you're presenting here. And that's the difference between us. I don't question those judges, and I'd ask you not to question them, too. All those who have been appointed by the constitutional authorities of the Polish State with democratic mandate. Maybe before I answer your question... As I said, the next speeches in the discussion would like to present my deputies, so I'd like to ask you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u221	We'll allow them, we'll give them that, of course. We write it down, we write it down. Minister, I have three questions for you. Do you mind? Or maybe he doesn't. Is it true that judges associated with the KRS, the neo-KRS or the current KRS, as well as your staff member and Deputy Minister who participated in the hating, using personal materials relating to other judges, meet the criteria of integrity? And then what happens to them? Are they in court or not? That's the first question. The second concerns the efficiency of the justice system after the changes that the PiS government and you have made. Those amendments shall be implemented from 2015. What is the efficiency of universal courts? Has the time of the case been reduced? And what is the efficiency of the Constitutional Court, which was the first element of these changes? One last question. Since you have invoked such a leninian concept of the wisdom of the stage, I ask: is the ministry planning, after this stage, a further reform of the general court, such as the liquidation of appeals and district courts? If he is not planning, is there any work in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u222	Mr. Marshal, to answer that question. But also pointing out that the next few votes in the discussion would like to take part in it... my deputies would like to take part in it... However, in fulfilling your request, I will answer as follows. With regard to the so-called. The hater scandal, it was my attitude towards the case that was very quickly revealed to the public. I responded immediately, drawing upon those who participated in this operation, the consequences In the sense of political responsibility, of course, because I was entitled to it. But in parallel I started criminal proceedings and such proceedings are currently taking place at the district or regional prosecutor's office in Lublin. The purpose of this procedure is to establish the legal liability, including criminal liability, of individual judges. Therefore, I would ask for some caution in expressing whether and who the judges may have used the records of the Ministry of Justice, because this is a matter of command, so it is easy in this case to expose themselves, Mr. Marshal, to the charge of violating personal property, if it turned out that some of these materials had e.g. another character, another source, or not all judges involved or corresponding to such activities. This is case one. Case number two. For the sake of truth in this matter, it is also necessary to say what is missing your notice, i.e. that part of the judge's environment Those who decided to commit themselves to the reform process were under great fire of criticism, even stigma on the part of their other colleagues, who were operating in the context of the "Iustitia" environment, the "Themis" environment, i.e. all the judges who have highly politicised the character of the judicial service and publicly manifested their views on numerous television programmes, as well as on a massive scale, through relations and information programmes, have greeted their colleagues who have decided to cooperate with the democratic government and work on judicial reform. It was a phenomenon that lasted for a few good years, but I did not notice the sensitivity of any of the present opposition senators, including your marshal, for this process, when judges of the type Tuley, Żurek or others, because there were many other judges, such activists of this kind, made public threats, uttered words that have nothing to do with not only parliamentary language, but also, all the more so, with the language of the judge and with some restraint of the judge. These were often abusive words, using the most pejorative words and phrases, accepting dignity and refusing to feel elementary decency for those who decided to cooperate. Okay, I'm pointing this out again. With a democratically elected government and parliament in the framework of judicial reform. It was a phenomenon that continued to grow in a continuous manner, but it did not meet with any response, but it was the heating of the atmosphere from parts of the opposition environment and the media. And that's what caused the counter-answer. Absolutely unacceptable also by me. Anyway, it's not like we only have one side of the hater. There's two sides here. Friends, colleagues, people who had often worked closely with each other before, but who at some point, instead of talking substantively, began to use a disqualifying language in a public debate, an unacceptable language, a language that, in my opinion, and probably many of you, should not appear among judges. But by order, about priority. And that is something to be said here, to give the truth in this matter. For long, long months, this language of hatred, the Hebrew language, the language of pronunciation, the invective, was used by those who today are presented as the only victims of the behaviour of this group of judges mentioned here. So let's look at the matter in the right context, let's look at the matter without distorting the essence of what happened. As far as my response is concerned, I will stress once again: I reacted immediately, decisively, I started the right actions, they are going on, we will wait for their explanation. To answer, by the way, the question of Marshal Borowski, who raised objections to certain elected judges elected to the National Judicial Council, I will say that if you win democratic elections, you will be able to select those judges whom you will consider appropriate representatives of the judicial community. It will probably be Mr Żurek, Mr Tuleya, Mr Łężewski, judges known for their restraint in using language, known for their distance to the political environment of opposition, known for their politicity, impartiality in statements. But that's the democratic mechanism. In the framework of the functioning of democratic mechanisms, any environment may report to the judges for whom it is responsible. So we have reported judges who, in our opinion, were willing to cooperate in the reform of the judiciary. Some of the events about some of them actually happened later... We did not know at the time when we made decisions that there would be such a huge escalation of emotions in the entire judicial community that two groups of judges would be discussing with each other in such a language. Of course, I regret it. But I can see the joy, the smile on your marshal's mouth, so I can see that you're okay with this trial. As for the second question and the efficiency of the justice system, my dear fellow Members, Contrary to what one of the senators said today It is not true that we have not defined the corporate model of the judiciary as the substance of the problem. Yes, in this we looked at the main problem of the chronicity and malfunction of the operation of Polish courts. Please reach out to my earlier statements. Here, in this House, in the previous Senate term, I had the opportunity to refer to the proposal of changes and then I very much exposed the fact that it is the problem which structurally prevents the successful use of positive changes in the form of funding of the Polish judiciary, in the form of simplification of judicial procedures, because everything is broken down by the limits resulting from the inertia of the activity of this sick person from the ground and imperfect system, of which Prof. Rzepliński or the President of Stępień spoke about years ago in such strong words. And now... But I must tell the marshal that despite this resistance and these limitations through the organizational changes we have introduced, we have succeeded in speeding up certain categories of cases, even in criminal matters. You can clearly see that when it comes to comparing statistics. In some labour and social security matters, too, such an acceleration has taken place. I will ask the current Minister here to send you the exact data tomorrow, which will indicate that there is a positive trend in some categories of cases, which is a good sign. And I can tell you that if you'll allow us And I'm sure that's going to happen, because democracy is going to decide here in the end, if you don't let it, then we're going to decide and we're going to bring this reform to an end... If this reform is fully implemented, then the judiciary in Poland will work even more efficiently, quickly and this will also be borne out by concrete statistics. Here again, referring to Mr. Marshal's question, are we planning a further reorganisation... Yes, of course. Since we have so far been able to propose, this is actually part of the programme proposals that were clearly exposed in the Law and Justice and the United Right programme in 2015. We have clearly indicated that we want these changes to be linked precisely to the simplification of the judicial structure system. But for this to happen, it is necessary to complete the reform, among others. related to the functioning of the National Judicial Council and the functioning of those structural reforms that have already been introduced today. Yes, we want to flatten the structure of the judiciary. We believe that the Polish judiciary is overdeveloped. We have until, you can say, 4 degrees of justice, which is one of the causes of these problems with chronicity and poor work organisation. We have regional courts, district courts, appeals courts and the Supreme Court. In a large part of European countries, where the judiciary functions much more efficiently, this structure is simpler, it comes down to 3 elements, and we would like to see it functioning in Poland the same way. In this sense, we're also talking about the stage... Because the further stage is possible when we can achieve what we have proposed so far. Ladies and gentlemen, that is all I would like to say right now. Thank you again very much for giving me the opportunity to speak. I would ask my deputies, I would ask Minister Kaleta to continue this statement by referring to a number of data... Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter. ...and, I think, will enrich your knowledge of the meaning and purpose of our reform and, hopefully, will convince us that we can join forces and, in line with those programme points that you proposed in 2007. I am directing these words to my colleagues from the Civic Platform, we can achieve these goals and move away from the corporate model for an efficient, functional system that will make the Polish courts work much more efficiently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u223	About the formal issue of Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u224	I would like to ask, Mr. Marshal, in the future, that in such a situation, however... to determine with the Minister the possibility of asking questions, because... Minister? Excuse me? He's gone... The Minister has escaped... Oh, he's gone, he's gone... The Minister has just escaped... No, he didn't. He left. I'm sorry, come on... I think he ran away from the questions, because the arguments that were here, the substantive ones, we've already heard them. We know the answers and the answers have already been answered by many experts, while... Mr. Marshal, may I... Wait, wait, it's a formal voice. ...thesis given here by the Minister would require some development. Namely, on the charge that this National Judicial Council found people unworthy simply, he replied: if you have a majority, you will choose yours. That means that most of them chose these people. And Minister Ziobro thinks he's made changes for the better. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u225	Thank you. Minister, do you want to... I'd like to take it, Mr. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... Yes? You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u226	I wanted to ask you a question, Minister Ziobra. But it seems to me that first the government presents its position, and then there are questions. Please don't interrupt me for your sake. If I know the procedure... Excuse me! Excuse me. ...that's what she looks like, Mr. Marshal. Minister, calm down, please... I would ask you to continue with the speech of the representative of the government. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're at the questioning stage. I wanted to ask a question to Minister Ziobra, because Minister Ziobro gave here such a thesis that his vice-ministers had not given so far. I attend our meetings all the time. I know what the vice ministers say, I know what the Senators of Law and Justice say. Minister Ziobro referred here to times when, I quote him: one was slow more, another was slow less. The Minister spoke about the time before Poland regained its sovereignty, i.e. the times of the Polish People's Republic. He's ten years younger than me. He had the right not to participate in the resistance at that time. He had the right not to be tried by the Polish People's Court. I was in front of the Polish People's Republic court, I was tried, and I know what that means. And I also know that the acquis of solidarity, and not of any judicial corporation, please, is this set of laws that changed the Polish judiciary. Because it is in the Centrum Census of Legislative Initiatives that a draft law on the National Courts, a draft law on the Supreme Court, a draft law on common courts and finally a draft law on the prosecutor's office was prepared. What you're leaving right now, that's what you're doing. This government... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, this is not a debate... ...with Minister Ziobra as the patron of these changes, he departs from the achievements of the Solidarity. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is this a formal conclusion or not? [[No recording]] Calling it corporateism at the moment is questioning the achievements of Solidarity, against which, as a man of Solidarity, I rebel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u227	Thank you. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 37 to 17 minutes 42]] I'm reopening the session. We're back to the senators asking questions. Senators can report questions from the scene. They should not last more than a minute, should be addressed to government representatives at the moment and should be linked to this item on the agenda... Mr. Marshal... Are there any such questions? There you go. There isn't. There isn't? There isn't. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. I don't see any questions to be asked. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion. All right. What is your formal conclusion, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u228	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you to adjourn until 7:00. Which one? By 7:00.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u229	By 7:00. Good. I'm about to announce a recess. By 7:00? Sixth point... But wait, wait, I'm sorry... Tomorrow he'll be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Withdraw this motion... Mr. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, drop the motion because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u230	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to withdraw this request for a recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u231	Good. Let's continue. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Borusewicz. They relate to the efficiency of judgment in common courts and in the Court. Do the invited guests wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I signed up for the minister. There's no minister. Me, too, to the minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Former Minister. I asked if there were any questions... I signed up with the secretary... But the minister left... No, but there's a representative of the Ministry. Mr. Marshal, you can't do this... But what can't you do? I've announced... Before the announcement... I asked if there were any questions. I signed up with the secretary. Well, the secretary didn't care because I volunteered to ask a question. I have a question too. Senator, you wanted to ask Minister Ziobra a question. Minister Ziobro left... To the government representative... There you go... I want to ask you a question, too. ...senator. You're welcome, Senator. Let's get back to the questions. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Minister, you're welcome. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal... And Senator Lydia Staron volunteered. There you go. If the Minister comes, I'll ask you a question. I want him to hear better... may I, Mr. Marshal? You're welcome. I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u232	Thank you. Minister, I have a question about the procedural issues of this law. Well, as I understand it, the question of the system and the way justice is organised is not subject to EU law, so it is not necessary to notify draft laws which are prepared in the national parliament. As I understand it, this bill doesn't apply. In my opinion, however, we are dealing with a situation where the sovereignty of the Polish parliament is limited. By means of the internationalisation of the legislative process, the possibility of interference of external factors in the process established in the Polish Parliament before its adoption is opened. Of course, the European Union has instruments to examine legislation in a Member State, but after its adoption, after a full legislative path. Is my reasoning correct? And are not such actions limited by the sovereignty of the Polish parliament, both the Sejm and the Senate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u233	In this regard, the position of the Government is clear that the matter of this submission, the law adopted by the Sejm, is not the matter covered by the order of EU law, is not the matter covered by the competences which have been delegated under the Treaties of the European Union. I can refer here to the very rich case law of both the Polish Constitutional Tribunal regarding the primacy of Polish constitutional law over EU law, and the judgments of other Member States of the European Union, in particular the German Constitutional Court, which spoke directly about the competences of the Union, but rather about the lack of them, in terms of the organisation of the judiciary. First of all, I will quote this caselaw so that the senators can assess this. Namely, knowing that before the Court of Justice of the European Union there was a question of a preliminary ruling by the Polish Supreme Court, as well as the case of the German Court of Wiesbaden In a preliminary ruling, the Court of Justice of the European Union asks whether the court directly appointed by the Minister for Justice of the State in which the court is situated is an independent and independent court in accordance with the requirements of Union law. We, as the Republic of Poland, requested that these cases be brought together before the Court of Justice, but the Court of Justice did not bring these cases together for a joint examination. In the meantime, the Federal Constitutional Court, Germany, stated that the Court of Justice had no jurisdiction to rule on judicial matters in Germany. He stated that any interpretation by the Court of Justice of the competences of the European Union in this area would be subsequently subject to the assessment of the German Constitutional Court. I quote here part of the justification for this judgment: if the Court of Justice were to exceed the defined limit of its powers, the action of the Court would not be covered by the Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second paragraph and the judgment of the Court of Justice concerning Germany would not contain the minimum level of democratic legitimacy required by the specific articles of the German Constitution. Thus, it can be said that the German tribunal has been precipitating the possibility of a law-making, bureaucratic, even the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to be honest with you on this discussion, which has been on the subject since this morning, that I am extremely surprised and moved in particular by the position of the Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka concerning the alleged superiority of EU law over the Polish order of the system, because she quoted an article which does not concern the hierarchy of sources of law. This is a complete surprise to me, because another article of the Polish Constitution indicates what is the hierarchy sources of law in Poland. At the head of the hierarchy of legal sources in Poland is the constitution, then the laws, ratified international agreements, regulations. In an exceptional case, there are provisions on the powers delegated to the European Union. Where we gave these powers... A specific, precise provision of EU law may precede a provision of the law, but never a constitution, ladies and gentlemen. It is also important to quote the caselaw of the Constitutional Tribunal, because in order to assess precisely whether we can speak of any sovereign interference at all, the possibility of suggesting any solutions in power by any international organisation in the field of justice... If we derive the possibility of such interference from EU law, we should consider whether regulations which are the law in Poland, i.e. The law on the National Council of Courts, as well as the regulations that are currently being processed, are first in line with the Polish Constitution. We know that the National Judicial Council as it stands is in line with the Polish Constitution. The question remains, therefore, whether it is compatible with the requirements of EU law and whether EU law can also be assessed in terms of compliance with Polish law, i.e. constitutional law. And here are the decisions of the Constitutional Court issued in the composition of... The Minister recalled one of these authorities, Prof. Rzepliński, but the warehouses which issued these judgments include much more familiar names, the names of people who have often spoken about judicial laws in recent weeks. Prof. Łętowska, Mr. Prof. Safjan, today at the Court of Justice of the European Union, issued a ruling on the signature K 18/04... This is a ruling on the accession treaty. The question was whether the accession treaty could become a source of law in Poland was examined its compatibility with the Constitution. In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated: "The Constitution therefore remains by virtue of its special power by the law of the highest Republic of Poland in relation to all binding international agreements between the Republic of Poland and such agreements are EU treaties. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution of primacy of legal force, it benefits in the territory of the Republic of Poland from the primacy of validity and application. In subsequent judgments, the Polish Constitutional Tribunal accepted the view of the German Constitutional Tribunal, divided this view in the next judgment, indicating that in case of doubt... The constitutional court of a Member State may find non-compliance with its own constitution of an act of Union law, while retaining the right to the last word, but at the same time accepting the need for international consequences. This is about internal relations within the European Union. We know that reaching the case law of the Court of Justice and national courts has a very rich history and it is not clear, in the sense that it is not possible to put the thesis under the title "The Court of Justice of the European Union is always paramount," as you are trying to do. I will recall the statement of President Margaret Gersdorf from yesterday, widely commented on. Asked by one of the reporters for an opinion in connection with the fact that in recent days there has been a case of Supreme Court ruling in Spain which has not recognised a ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a specific case Very political, by the way. This decision was recognised by the European Parliament, i.e. The Supreme Court of Spain's ruling, President Gersdorf, stated: some of these judgments are applicable, some are not, there are taxes, and this is a super important matter. This also shows that... unfortunately, this case is presented by representatives of the Civic Coalition, a marshal in a political and not a substantive way, because there is no provision of EU law that would allow the European Union to take the floor in matters relating to the judiciary. Indeed, it is clear that the values of judicial independence, the independence of courts, are common values recognised both in Poland and in other European Union countries, whereas no European Union body has the competence to indicate In addition to the rule of law procedure, which is a political procedure and not a judicial procedure, it follows from Article. 7 that these values are not respected. And I'd like to move on to the legislation that you're asking about, the possibilities of interference... Because here also the Senate of the Republic of Poland held a hearing yesterday with representatives of the legal environment from other countries of the European Union. Nearly silent was the speech of an invited guest from Germany. Because if we are talking about the European Union, we are talking about equal standards for all countries, equal principles, if we are looking at the expected fulfilment of values together, we can see whether these values are implemented in concrete models. If we believe that the principle of judicial independence and independence in the German state is maintained And she's supposed to be watched, because this whole discussion... The source of the judicial authority, which is the nomination procedure... Since in Germany direct political choice is acceptable and guarantees these values, it is impossible to say that if we propose such solutions in Poland Although this would require constitutional changes, it would also, from a purely legal perspective, be unacceptable. I am extremely surprised that some for purely political purposes are trying to rid themselves of part of our sovereignty, precisely claiming that in other countries of the European Union certain mechanisms are acceptable, and in our country not so far-reaching mechanisms are unacceptable, and even their introduction would have to be sanctioned by various ailments towards our country. And we heard today even demanding such sanctions. And from the perspective of this statement, which I would like to quote... German lawyer, asked how this system of selection of judges is going, whether it is really a political system, said clearly that it is, is political. The judges in Germany are elected by politicians. Imagine the situation. I want the viewers to understand what we're talking about. That... all this dispute that revolves around these laws concerns these judicial vocations. Let us imagine the situation that our political camp proposes a change of constitution, if it has such a majority, or even a legislative change... It's not quite like that. ...which indicates... I'm filing a formal motion. The Minister doesn't answer questions. There's no time limit in the rules, and I'd like to take advantage of that. ...which indicates that the judges refer to Poland as follows. There is an organ composed of voivodships, marshals of voivodships and a minister of justice, who does not have the right to vote in this body, but conducts the deliberations. Perhaps not: 16 voivodeships, 16 representatives of the Sejm and the Minister of Justice, who is the head of an organ without the right to vote. No judge. Can I ask you a question? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is a system of selection of judges in Germany. And what did the German guy say yesterday? He said that this system was as acceptable as possible, but in Germany, since in Germany after the democratic war, the German judiciary had to be protected from the undesirable influences of lawyers who had been legitimizing this system and totalitarian regime during their work during the Nazi system. But Poland does not have that right anymore. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy and digging up your own country by part of the political environment. Because we really need to protect ourselves from your lies all the time. So, sir, sir. I answer your question in conclusion. Of course, these treatments seek to limit Polish sovereignty and are unacceptable. I'd like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u234	No, no, Mr. Senator. Just a question. Now Senator Lydia Staron. There you go. I'd like to ask... Then I'll let you ask questions. I understand, I know what a question is. Sit still. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u235	Minister, I actually asked the same question at the committee meeting. But here's what I'm gonna say: people are important to me. And I see that this fight is a fight, I think, about impunity, just about impunity. And I'm not gonna tell you how many people I've had, how many cases I've got, but... today is a fight for the Disciplinary Chamber... Yes. ...that's responsibility. And I have a question, actually, two questions. The first one's like this. Before that, as far as the rules are concerned... There's an art here. 439 or 379 c.p.c. The court, it's always been like this, checking how another judge is filled. Right? He was checking to see if it was the right thing to do, whether it was formally the right thing to do, to see what the documents were. The first time is different. It's already today that a judge can question anything, including the status of another judge. My question is, is it just the status of another judge? He may also ask if the solicitor is a counsellor, whether the lawyer is a lawyer, whether the notary is a notary, whether the bailiff is a bailiff. Why would he ask that? Because... the negation will appear, for example. because there was a judge on the board who was nominated by the current president. And that judge can do that because the road is exactly the same. The status of a judge is being challenged, but the status of another person can also be undermined. That's my question. Second question. Is today about this bill... I'd like to know if there are any articles, any regulations, as far as the new competence is concerned, regarding the Minister of Justice. Has something changed here or not? That's the second and last question. For me, it's actually the most important thing. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] I've been... all these years. Today or two days ago, we saw the jury march. I talk to judges a lot. Some are very good, very good, but also very often, unfortunately it is too often that a man should not be a judge. There's hurt, there's convictions... For me, the most important thing... This isn't about a conviction, but it's about justice. Senator, could you ask me a question? But I'm very brief. I just started. Question, question. Of course, I've already asked two questions and I'm saying there's going to be a third. Senator, please. For me, of course, independence is important, independence is important, but it is not the same as impunity. I'd like to know if I was talking about these questions. This is not the time to fight for impunity. One last thing. That won't be a question anymore. I wanted to ask the minister who's already gone. I spent 10 years fighting for new rules for bailiffs, and I saw the same committees, same meetings. That's what I'm talking about today, because now it's the same as it was then. It was a fight. Today it's different... Senator, there will be time for this debate. It's about responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u236	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u237	Dear Marshal! High Senate! In answer to the first question, I will say that the Minister very clearly, precisely, logically pointed out what is the whole mechanism which applied to another case, to the situation connected with the appointment of a judge, will actually cause that we will not be able to say that we have in Poland any valid sentence issued after 1989. There was a period in the 1990s for which it could perhaps be concluded that the elected judges were correctly elected. And this logic, which the Minister has put forward, concerns... If the democratic KRS does not like and we do not respect these judges, then we have an unconstitutional KRS in the years 2000 to 2018. If you do not like the unconstitutional KRS, corporate though, but in a democratic state, then we have the Council of State of the Polish People's Republic. In short, all judges are members of the examination board. If we assume that the judge doesn't have the qualities he should have to do his job And by law, the judge must be a member of the committee. This will come to the conclusion, Senator, that, as with this logic, there are no judges in Poland, there are no millions of sentences, tens of millions of sentences, the same logic, the appointment of legal counsels, lawyers, notaries, representatives of all legal professions for which judges sit on examination boards. It's just anarchy. This law is necessary because it resists these extra-constitutional attempts to undermine the functioning of constitutional bodies. On a very precise question about the competence of the Minister of Justice and on this disciplinary responsibility, I will say that the law is lyingly presented as a muzzle law, as a law which is supposed to give rise to the supremacy of the judicial authority. They say there are no more courts. This is utter nonsense, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Supremation, the primacy of any authority, creates competence. This law in not one provision grants the Minister of Justice a new competence regarding the functioning of courts, in particular as regards disciplinary proceedings, because that is what we are talking about above all. This law concerns the fact that the most far-reaching disciplinary measure is to undermine the status of another judge in this exceptional situation in which we are in. In Poland the law is created by the legislator and the legislator has the right to determine which delict is the strongest. The Act assumes that one of the strongest delicacies is just a delicacy, which in its source has a very dangerous pursuit of anarchy. You also mentioned the march that took place. I would like to emphasise what is rarely paid attention to. In Poland there are about 100,000 people who pursue a legal profession and which, according to the presented idea of this march, meet the requirements to walk through Warsaw streets in toga, as persons practicing a legal profession. As we know perfectly well, there were not 100,000 people, there were far fewer, and the smaller, non-dominant part of the protesters was not in the toga. It wasn't just the lawyers who participated in the recent protests. Therefore, I would like to thank in particular those judges who very much defend their apoliticity, defend their independence, and that is because participating in such gatherings is, unfortunately, a feeling of loss of certain qualities of impartiality or apoliticity. This Disciplinary Chamber for part of the judge's environment is such a salt in the eye, because all the disputes that we have been discussing in the judiciary for many months are concerned that it does not like that there are statements of property, it does not like that there is a Disciplinary Chamber, which eventually effectively raises standards in the judiciary, it does not like that the judge's corporation has lost its influence on the judges' appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 Supreme Court Presidents, President Zawistowski and President Iwulski... According to the constitution, every power should come from a nation. So how will we describe the relationship between the democratic choice of Poles and the very strong power exercised by these two masters, which are among the most important judges in Poland, since they were appointed by the Council of State of the Polish People's Republic, and the corporate KRS amounted them to the highest offices? And Peterovich? Where did he come from? Not from the Polish People's Ladies and gentlemen... And Peterovich? ...which is why undermining the democratisation of the KRS is a really absurd argument, because it is precisely thanks to the changes in the National Judicial Council today that Poles can say that they can exercise real control over how the Polish judiciary is constructed. They will exercise this control in real terms, deciding who will sit in the Polish Parliament. This will was expressed in the autumn of last year by giving our political camp record support.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm asking you to ask me another question. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u239	Thank you very much. Minister, I must ask this question because I have not received an answer from the Senator rapporteur. I would like to find out, perhaps the Minister will know what intentions led the creators of the law, that in the case of disciplinary offences referred to in the article. 137 §1 points 2 and 4 of the Act do not have the possibility of imposing a penalty of reprimand or reprimand, which can be ordered for far more socially harmful delicacies within the meaning of a clear and gross insult of the law or breach of the dignity of the office. Why can't we apply this reprimand and reprimand here, just right away... These regulations are very strict here, it could be a transfer or removal from office. What They Were guided by The authors who treated it this way... Well, that's pretty judgmental. Point 4 concerns public actions of a political nature. As here it rained many times in the discussion, almost every behavior of the prosecutor or judge, which, for example. If something goes wrong, you can pull it up politically or you can't pull it up. This will be assessed quite freely. Why are you punishing me so harshly? And second question. Why order disclosure of membership of prosecutors' associations when there is only one prosecutor's association in Poland? The Constitution tells us that it is possible that every citizen has the right to belong to associations. Revealing it... In some cases, the constitution allows it, but when one of the following circumstances occurs: either the security of the state is at stake, or there is a threat of public order, or something is done to protect the environment of public health and morality, or the freedom and rights of others. Which one of these circumstances existed and we can pull up... Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 states that public authorities cannot collect, collect and share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state. If we want them to gather such information, there must be one of these reasons. I'd like to know which of the authors of the bill is the basis for the prosecutors, the prosecutors' association. This is an exception, the state has decided that they must reveal their membership of this only association with which the Ministry should actually cooperate and not stand up to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u240	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u241	Here, the solutions are similar to those proposed for judges. Senator Jackowski asked about hunting yesterday and today. In my opinion... Senator, your marshal seems to think the judge is so generous that even if no one in court knows he's a hunter, he's always gonna propose it. Perhaps it is. But the party that's unhappy with the outcome of the trial knows that the judge hasn't turned himself off from the trial, or will find out in the future. Or he won't even know. She may have a sense of injustice that met her in this court. The rules on disclosure of membership of associations that we propose to both judges and prosecutors... I mean, the D.A.'s got a pretty strong one, too. Although not so far-reaching, because it is not the ultimate effect on the sense of justice, because it is the first contact in case of suspicion of breaking the law. We therefore believe that these provisions which we propose increase the standard of the right to court, the right to a fair trial. I would remind you that the rules governing the dismissal of judges, in accordance with the criminal procedure, apply accordingly to prosecutors. Thus, these provisions which we are proposing have given the citizen greater guarantees that he will fully implement the constitutional right to court. And neither the prosecutor nor the judge play a dominant role in this procedure, but a subordinate role towards the citizen. They must guarantee their behaviour, compliance with the requirement of integrity and others which are placed before those who perform these professions, so that the citizen who will have to comply with the decision of the prosecutor or judge is aware that, for example. The judge who was about to pass judgment on him and wanted to... felt that he was going to pass a negative judgment... so he found out that he was, for example. I'm a passionate... If we have a judge who might present it on a different example than hunting He is passionate about sports weapons, and he would decide, for example. About the issue of liability for the involuntary use of weapons... It seems to me that the citizen should know whether the judge is involved in this type of activity, because he may not, but it may have an impact on the full constitutional exercise of the right to court. And that's where the rules go. Every person who exercises authority is currently subject to higher requirements and the citizen has the right to know whether the conditions for impartiality are met in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u242	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u243	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about a process that we are currently observing, and which you spoke about earlier, namely at the beginning of this process there is a judgment of the TSUE, and at the end there is a possibility or a possibility that some may want to control the provisions of your President's appointment as a judge. The question is this: does the TSUE really have the possibility of lawmaking, I would call it general and abstract, i.e. simply legal standards, or should it express itself in specific cases, the facts? With us there is no precedent law, there is a law established, which we are, among other things. We, as the second Chamber of Parliament. And the second question is: can the TSUE delegate its powers to other authorities, in this case to the Supreme Court, if they simply do not exist? Here I refer to the first question. Therefore, is this path: the TSUE judgment and, finally, the possibility for the President to challenge the appointment of a judge by any other judge at all logical and legitimate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u244	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll answer a supplementary question about association to make it clear. The Act does not prohibit membership of associations, judges or prosecutors, but only introduces the obligation to make a declaration of affiliation. Thus, in this context, the right to association and association is in no way governed by this matter. Now I answer that question. The Law of 20 December 2019 implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019. In this judgment, the Court of Justice included certain standards in which it specified to the referring court, but also to all other courts, not only in Poland, in all the countries of the European Union, how the so-called. a test of independence. In this judgment, the various points contain certain elements which the court should take into account. Regardless of this test, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled directly in point 133 of the statement of reasons for that judgment that it is not possible to challenge the appointment of judges by the President of the Republic of Poland and that it is not possible to challenge the status of a judge who, as a result of his appointment, obtains an investment to judge and exercise justice. In other words, the Court found that in a particular individual case, not in an abstract manner, only in a specific case, the court has the right to examine whether a particular court and judge meet the standards of independence, and the court of independence, but does not have the right and ability to challenge the appointment of a judge, i.e. the appointment which constitutes a presidential act, and there is no right and possibility to challenge the judge's investment, or status, his capacity to rule. Following these guidelines, which are contained in the justification for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November 2019, it follows these guidelines in the Law of 20 December adopted by the Sejm on that date, with certain standards to implement these recommendations. So there is no possibility of questioning the status and appointment of a judge, but the court can test the independence and independence of judges. Another issue that has been raised here, which is worth noting in the context of the question, is the possibility of instant review of the composition of the court in the context of the possibility of questioning the status of judge. It's not the same. High Izbo, the composition of the court is a category in the field of public and procedural law. The proper composition of the court is defined by procedural laws, i.e. the composition of one-, three-person, professional or with jurors. The judge's status is his investment. If the composition of the court is incorrect, this will mean that instead of 3 professional judges there will be only 1. This is an incorrect courthouse. In this sense, courts, both common courts and administrative courts, have a right not only to examine the correctness of the court. However, they do not have the right and cannot even undermine the status of judge as well as undermining the prerogatives of the President and the Act of Appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u246	Thank you, Minister. Now I'm asking Senator Anthony the Man to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In his speech, Minister Ziobro spoke about the fact that you have a democratic mandate to make the changes you are now making. Minister, in fact, as I listened to your program before the 2015 elections, it's... You also have a democratic mandate... i.e. You had a democratic mandate to make the same changes that Marshal Staneck was talking about here today. It's about the kind of judiciary that happened in 1946 and 1956. In this campaign you talked about folk courts, they were supposed to have such character. Is it really every democracy, everything you've said, and even though that's what you've been saying in the election campaign, you've won this election... Are you gracious today? Are you offering us a milder form of change of the judicial system in Poland? Is it about having any democracy or democracy in Poland with values in mind? After all, liberal democracy is primarily democracy, taking into account the value of freedom. In liberal democracy, the minority also has rights. This freedom also results in respect for judicial independence and independence, including the independence of other public authorities. So, Minister, could you really have presented us with an even worse reform than the one you're proposing today? Would that be respectful of democracy as you understand democracy? Is that what we were fighting for in Solidarity? Have we fought for freedom, or have we fought for democracy? Was Solidarity at all a movement of freedom, partial independence, or mostly democratic, regardless of what democracy it was all about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u248	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u249	Dear Marshal! High Senate! From your question, raised in a very innuendo tone, you can get the impression that any form of democracy in Poland, which will not meet with the acceptance of your political environment, the current one, is no longer a democracy and becomes some other form of government, undesirable by the Polish society or by other structures or organizations. In my opinion, we move in Poland in constitutional order. We have a constitution in Poland that clearly indicates the order of our state and in this framework all the organs of the state appointed through democratic processes are functioning. If we make any changes, in any institution Today we are discussing the courts, and we are doing them on the basis of this hierarchy of standards, which in the Polish public space... which binds us all. The fact that society has made a choice, in 2015 and last year, by agreeing to our demands, gives us a mandate to make changes in the Polish legal system in accordance with the rules that bind us. In my opinion today, we as political camp are the guardians of the Polish Constitution. Today I have heard many times about the alleged superiority of EU law over Polish law, which in my opinion is an unprecedented attempt to renounce Polish sovereignty. As in the last few years, the state as a political camp has been wearing T-shirts with the inscription "Constitution" once you, once the judges, so that sometimes someone might doubt whether they are dealing with a politician or a judge. You'd rather print the TSUE on your T-shirts today. Today, we want to restore the stability of the Polish legal system with respect to the Polish Constitution, so that there is no attempt to question the Polish system. Within the framework of the Polish system order, the President's prerogative, for which, after issuing an appropriate provision, the Constitution does not provide for a specific legal measure to undermine it, which is... The subject of many legal proceedings in previous years, when President Komorowski appointed judges, were also administrative judgments and they indicated that the appointment by the President, the giving of the act, the taking of the oath, the possibility of questioning this appointment and the procedure in which it took place. That was the case-law. However, you have just moved on to the opposition and changed. The judges lost their privileges and changed. I was referring to the case law of the Constitutional Court, of course. I could really give flowers to Mrs Łętowska and Mr Rzepliński, and Mr Safjan for those beautiful judgments that defend Polish sovereignty. But I can't really understand... Perhaps the turn of my life will allow me to understand after a while how in such a fundamental matter one can change the view by 180 degrees, because this unfortunately happened today. I think our intentions are clear. Both our intentions and the rules around which we move and the values we want to preserve are clear. It is not the independence of the judge's statement by any judge in Poland, contrary to the competence granted to him, that today he recognizes the bill, and tomorrow he does not recognize it. Today I believe that Andrzej Duda is president, and tomorrow I will find that Lech Wałęsa is president all the time. That's not judicial independence. The judge's independence concerns a specific case, not a system issue, which has not been conferred on judges. Moreover, as regards the case law of the courts, let me give you a very simple example: issues concerning parliamentary resolutions, personal vocations. Some try these resolutions, i.e. emanations of the Sejm's powers, and thus to issue a resolution by a particular pillar of power, question before another pillar of power. Many times the administrative courts have said this: this is already the division of power and as an administrative court I don't have the authority to question that choice. This has happened many times in the past. Thus, this law, which we are working on today, guarantees compliance with: constitutional order, political order, stability of the legal system in Poland, in the face of disturbing actions which anarchize the Polish state, which we observe, among others. Also of yours, as an opposition, intentions. Thank you very much, sir. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u250	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Senator Filip Libicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u251	Thank you very much. Minister, I will return to this question which I have asked the rapporteurs, because quite serious controversy has led to the wording that political judges are not involved. So far, I think it's a case. I'm not a lawyer. Pretty clear: judges cannot belong to political parties. And it's very clearly defined. Everyone knows what being or not belonging to political parties is. Here comes a new wording about political commitment. And now the question is what falls within the scope of this political commitment. Is participation in the march, which is part of, as the Court of Justice has said, a discussion about a public case, i.e. the question of what judicial action is to be like, political commitment or not? We could continue this discussion. Well, any legal act that will appear, for example. in the Senate, it is subject to certain substantive but also political divisions, because a political party supports it and another is against it. Does that mean that for example. any opinion of the Supreme Court or of the legal community in accordance with the opinion of those who, after these elections, represent the majority in the Senate... Are you going to qualify for this as a political commitment or not? Could the Minister mention at least a few elements which, according to the Minister, are such a political commitment and are exhausting this provision? Thank you very much. Dear Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u252	Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u253	Thank you very much. I would not like to dywag ad casum here, which in my opinion is or is not, because this evaluation in the future will be carried out and currently carried out by disciplinary judges. I would like to remind you that in Poland the principle of apoliticity is expressed in a clear way, while the law that we are working on only clarifies the principles of apoliticity in which disciplinary delicacies are consummated more widely described in the proposed law. And in my opinion, it is clear that the evaluation of the draft laws submitted, in particular those relating to the functioning of the judiciary, on the formal path is an acceptable activity, but in recent years we have faced a number of activities which were not acceptable in my opinion, I do not know, discredited the dignity of the judiciary and confidence in the judiciary. For example... I'm gonna try to find it because I was gonna... Minister Ziobro spoke during his speech about the fact that some judges have very dynamic media activity. I have repeatedly wiped my eyes out of amazement when I heard the statements of some judges, whether it's about politicians or it's about other judges. If there's a judge sitting in a TV studio, a very large one, and he's talking about other judges, that they're politically corrupt judges, that they're gonna be responsible for what they're doing today, so they don't even dare take any kind of action that wouldn't be opposed to reform, then I think something's gone too far. Because, of course, a valid and important element of any law that concerns the functioning of courts is the judge's opinion. But you know very well that the Ministry of Justice has delegated judges, who have many important draft laws that improve the judiciary, often carrying out demands of the judicial community... They're being prepared, they're being evaluated... So if the judges are formally doing this in the ministry, I don't see the problem with them doing it. Or if they're presenting opinions to the High Senate. But there's a difference between opinion and public activity. Would the senator be able to exchange this kind of public activity? To challenge other judges, to speak of them in a very vile tone... judges who are in the ministry take care of the dignity of the office that they hold, temporarily not exercising this justice system. So I think we've gone too far in terms of these public-life judicial activities. Some judges... form of protest, lack of caution in dealing with suspects, defendants... The case from Wroclaw has been referred to several times here. Senator Zdrojewska asked Senator Pęk how he knew. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there was a recording on which Senator Zdrojewski thanked the judges, shortly after Mr Frasyniuk's speech he thanked that the judges were here, especially the young. So this information... You're lying. You're lying again. Well, if... Excuse me... ...thank you for the presence of judges, especially young people, the recipient has the impression that there are judges, young people. Ba, Senator Zdrojewski spoke in court. And just a photograph of the judge to judge Mr Józef Pinior, this is the photograph on which Senator Zdrojewski is speaking. There's this judge in the background. No. Or another Civic Platform politician. 'Cause there's definitely a politician out there, maybe I got the wrong Civic Platform policy. If so, I will apologize, of course. You've got it all wrong. That's not true at all, you're lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u254	Excuse me, Senator. Please... There's a picture. And in my opinion, this kind of behavior... Minister, you'll be kind enough to let me speak. I would very much ask all your senators to maintain the proper procedure. There is time for polemics and this time will certainly always be guaranteed, but I would very much ask that we do not interrupt each other, regardless of emotions. Please, Minister, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u255	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In my opinion, if citizens see politicians marching together, judges and accused or acquitted by judges in controversial celebrities' circumstances, there may, I believe, be some doubts that undermine confidence in justice, in the judiciary. These limitations, which the Polish Constitution has provided for, are precisely the purpose of preventing such situations from occurring. And those laws that we're working on are exactly what we're doing to keep this from happening. Because the judge, knowing that he is taking such an action, will have on the back of his head that he is breaking certain rules that are imposed on him, the rules of having to be so careful in his life that there is no suspicion that the judge does not guarantee the side of an impartial trial. And it seems to me that for this reason there is no doubt that this is an increase in standards when it comes to Polish judiciary. However, I cannot answer the question, which is or is not a case in particular... because it will always be my subjective opinion. And a categoric statement that something will or will not be a disciplinary measure may be accepted by the State as an attempt to put pressure on disciplinary action. Oh, as we all know. I also quoted this earlier, answering Senator Staron's question. The law does not provide for competence for the Minister of Justice, those delicacies which are described will possibly be enforced by the judges themselves in the person of disciplinary action and then judged by the judges themselves. So there will be no political factor in this procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u256	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll fill it in. Is it possible to supplement it? I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to complete Minister Kaleta's answer on the question presented. In the course of the legislative work on the Law, amendments have been made which take into account the comments submitted by the Sejm Analysis Office. In the course of this work, the provision which has penalised actions of a political nature as regards judges was abandoned in favour of another provision, which is a literal repetition of the content of the article. 179 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and the behaviour of public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and independence of judges, is now legalised. Thus, in the current wording, the Act does not contain a provision which was in the original draft, which states that political activities are being criminalised. The provision was also amended, which is addressed not to judges or judges, but to the judicial authorities and bodies of the judiciary, namely the college and the judiciary in the form of assemblies. This provision in its original wording stated that the deliberations of the college and the judiciary cannot be discussed in political matters, and in particular it is forbidden to adopt resolutions expressing hostility towards other authorities of the Republic of Poland. At the moment, the present law reads as follows: the deliberations of the college and the judiciary cannot be discussed in political matters, in particular it is forbidden to adopt resolutions challenging the principles of functioning of the authorities of the Republic of Poland and its constitutional bodies. Therefore, this political element is addressed only to the courts and local authorities, and is not directly addressed to judges. Regardless of that, the standard contained in the Constitution, which states that public activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges... This constitutional standard is indeed quite capacious; various elements of the facts may be included here, and the behaviour of the judge will be assessed each time from the point of view of compliance with these provisions. However, this evaluation will be, as Minister Kaleta pointed out, not to the Minister of Justice, but to judges, i.e. disciplinary and judicial judges who judge both in disciplinary courts in general courts and in the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. You're still Senator Jacek Bury. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u259	I'm gonna ask you a question for the Minister. I'm gonna give you a quick introduction. I mean, PiS has been doing this judicial reform for over four years. I have a question for you. 4 years of action is a long time. I've been running this company for over 27 years. As I can see, this reform that you are currently introducing will lead to the fact that people, ordinary people, including entrepreneurs, will be waiting longer than ever for court judgments. 4 years ago, for entry into the mortgage, to obtain the guarantee of the loan that the company received, it was waiting for 2 and 3 months. I have a question for the Minister. Do you know how long you're waiting for a simple mortgage in court right now? Depends on where. Dear Senator, the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u260	Excuse me, Minister, but art. 44 Rules of Procedure of the Senate are very clear: the Speaker of the Senate or one of the Vice-Marshals is giving the floor. And I will stick to this article, not because of some attachment to myself, but because of the prestige of this House. Mr. Senator, have you completed your questioning? Yes. How long is it gonna take? I would also like to instruct you whether or not to inform the senator that the debate in this House is not a debate in any other ordinary place where we immediately expect an answer to the question, just... I'm just asking if... And I would like to ask both the senator and all the other participants in the discussion to stick to the formula that is in force in this type of body, which is the Senate of the Republic. Is there any hope that the bill under review will change this state? And what are the reasons for that? Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u261	Dear Senator, the process of judicial reform is indeed a very tedious and multifaceted process, because the judiciary regulates many laws of the system, many procedural laws and many laws related to material law. That is why we have undertaken this very difficult test and are consistently taking further steps to achieve this. However, as the wise proverb says, the fish breaks from the head. The first element without which no other element has the chance to be implemented in a positive way is the body element. The aim is to bring about greater democratic control over the process of appointment of judges, the introduction of Western Europe standards. When this trial is over, because it's not a secret... We all see the resistance in the courts, how some judges show hostility to the government. If judges are very often in television studies, focus on the organisation of further protests, meet to make further calls, go to each other's various hearings, trials, then you can get the impression that they are not focusing on what they were first called to, on the conduct of cases, on justice. On the other hand, lawyers have it in themselves that where there are 2 of them, there are 3 opinions. And the introduction of very important reforms in the atmosphere that we have now, when some judges are looking for any way not to apply the law that is being passed, is also not for the purpose of proposing changes that society is very desirable, although many of these changes have been made. First of all, I will talk about a very important issue that builds public confidence in the court. It's a matter of drawing a jury. In our previous term of office, we changed the criminal procedure at the end of the civil procedure. The changes were also prepared on the basis of the demands of the judge's environment as such, which are intended to facilitate the organisation of the work of judges. So it should be presumed that if these demands, which have been made by judges for many years, were correct, the new procedural rules will speed up proceedings. A very important element of the changes in the judiciary, which are currently taking place, is the very intensive work related to computerization. In the last four years, we have increased access to the KRS and the perpetual books. We also increase the access of entrepreneurs to the possibility of dealing with their business through e-court. We are creating a very large, complex electronic system that will allow entrepreneurs in the future to be able to deal with the business entity they manage without having to go to court. The creation of such an IT system is, of course, not an issue that can be implemented overnight, but intensive work is underway in the Ministry and we hope that this system will start next year. It seems to me that entrepreneurs will be willing to use it. There are a lot of changes that we propose in the judiciary and that we have implemented. The change we are discussing today guarantees the stability of the judicial system as such. We could introduce 30 beautiful laws that would reduce cognition and simplify procedures, but if judges deny each other the status of judge, none of the procedures will be effectively executed. The adoption of this law is crucial for the possibility of further reforming the Polish judiciary, in particular to the extent that you are talking about, i.e. speeding up proceedings. But in addition to speeding up proceedings, the public expects the outcome of these proceedings to be fair. A sense of justice is guaranteed by the Disciplinary Chamber, high standards of transparency of judges and the highest standards of transparency of the National Courts Council. As the Minister mentioned, today the National Judicial Council is a truly democratic and transparent body. Everyone can see on the Internet what comment the judge has made about another judge discussing his candidacy. There are no unanimous votes, it is not that a group of judges is coming, which is the majority of the National Courts, and the other members of the National Courts cannot change anything, because everything is settled. Here was the example of Judge Zaradkiewicz, a truly outstanding lecturer, a man with whom I had the honour to cooperate in a short time, which of course gives my opinion subjective and is an inability to recognize any dispute in which I will be a party. However, his nomination, a known person, took place in a procedure in which no other judge was appointed. The National Judicial Council has given a fair assessment... There was no order to say it was Professor Zaradkiewicz or not. Insinuating that it was some kind of pushing is offensive to both him and the National Council of Courts, because it is precisely that. This procedure shows that today the National Judicial Council is doing what every judicial council in a democratic state should do. The candidate was transparently assessed and members of the National Judicial Board In line with their own beliefs, and not with the pressures, they issued a ruling on this matter. This case is perfect.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no other senators who would vote, so I'm about to announce a break by 7:00 p.m. during which... At the request of the government, we have changed our agenda at the request of the government, I repeat that at 7:00 p.m., the Minister will come to us to present a law on the amendment of the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities. [[Voice from the room: It's almost...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: It's almost 7:00.]] Yeah, it's almost 7:00. I'd like to get these senators' attention before we announce a break. And for now, I'm gonna do it without names. In the course of the plenary session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I am very strongly appealing to each of the Members of this House for respect for the House in which we are present and for failure, I repeat, to hold notorious talks during the plenary session. If anybody wants to talk, they can really go to the clowns any minute. Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u263	Mr. Marshal, let me ask you a question about when we will return to this point. Is it today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u264	The return to this point will be tomorrow, Senator, because, as I said, the Senate Bureau has received a request from the government for a change due to the tense schedule of the Minister. And we have agreed to this request of the government. Thank you very much. Dismissed until 7:00 p.m. And for the debate that we started today at 11:00, we will be back tomorrow at 10:00. I thank the senators and the members of the government for their participation in the debate. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 52 to 19 minutes 02]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Waste Act and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 33 and the report of the Commission In print No 33 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, i.e. On 14 January 2020, the Environment Commission at its fourth meeting examined the Law on amending the Waste Act and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities; Senate printing How did you read the Marshal? No 33, seym prints No 119, 120 and 122-A. During the meeting, the Minister spoke and approximated the subject of the Act. Then there was a discussion that drew attention to certain issues and problems, mainly concerning the functioning of the waste database. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, from 1 January 2020, waste records should be compiled in electronic form through an individual account in the database on products and packaging and on waste management, in short BDO. Since the beginning of the year, the most important module of the database, i.e. the registration module, allows the efficient recording of the generated waste and the generation of confirmations of the transfer of waste. More than 50,000 cards are generated a day without any breakdown. This is aimed at better records and more accurate information on the production and management of different waste. The operation of the entire base is designed in such a way as to perform as little activity as possible. This is a special ease for small companies. The waste database enables comprehensive collection of information and management of waste management information and ensures that operators are fully electronic in fulfilling their obligations regarding formal waste management activities. From the point of view of the authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspections, the BDO also allows for increased control of national waste management and ensures monitoring of waste streams. The waste database uses advanced technologies to support many thousands of users who can generate different documents at the same time. In addition, the base with development will introduce further new facilities so that it is as functional as possible for entrepreneurs and stakeholders. In response to the proposals made by entrepreneurs, the proposed project proposes facilitations that allow for more flexible implementation of the waste database. The Act submitted to the session adds the provisions governing the preparation of waste records in the event of a waste database failure. In this case, it is also possible to draw up documents in paper form and in electronic form outside the waste database. In the event of a failure of the waste database, the deadline for submission of part of the reports shall be extended until the failure has been resolved. The Act also extends the possibility to keep records of waste in paper form until 30 June 2020 in order to enable businesses to become familiar with the functioning of the waste database. In addition, in view of the proposals made by entrepreneurs to extend their time to adapt to the new method of electronic reporting and requests for the development of an integration module, so-called. The API has also made an amendment that will allow the deadlines for reporting on waste management for 2019 to be postponed in 2020. In addition, an API integration module will be made available in advance, which will also enable the preparation of reports through internal enterprise programmes and the integration of data into the waste database. The Act is to enter into force on the day following the date of its publication, except that most of its provisions will be applied from 1 January 2020, excluding criminal provisions. The Minister, who often took the floor at the committee meeting, stated that the proposed solution does not limit the ability of entrepreneurs who have adapted their activities to conduct them electronically in the waste database during the said period. As far as the vote is concerned, the bill was adopted unanimously. Three amendments were tabled. I ask the High House to adopt this amendment act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Would a government representative like to take the floor... Excuse me, sir, just a few more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. Oh, sorry, first questions to... Do any of you senators have a question for the senator? You're welcome, Senator Gawłowski. I'm very sorry for the error.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, Mr Senator, you have used such an expression that since the beginning of the year - Can you do it a day? 50,000 cards entered into the database without any breakdown... Then what's the bill for?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u269	I informed you at the beginning that this waste database is exactly what it is for in electronic form, so that the waste stream can be controlled more efficiently, just waste that is being generated, and that waste can be controlled, waste management.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u270	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator, to speak with another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you why they're so expensive now, in the new year, they're sorted or unsegregated waste, and how it's gonna affect... If in a small village someone has a family house and creates a composter, how will it affect the price of waste?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u272	Thank you, Senator. I ask the Senator rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u273	This law aims to monitor the functioning of waste management. It is intended to monitor and specify more precisely how these wastes have been produced, where they are located and how they have been managed. Electronic reports are drawn up only to ensure that the information is as complete as possible and that it is as controlable as possible of the waste generated and used. The waste database is prepared in electronic form so that you can have faster and more efficient access to information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u274	Thank you very much, Senator. You asked Senator Gawłowski for another question, but since you have already asked the question, first Senator Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you if the system you have introduced monitors the millions of tons of waste that are imported from abroad?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u277	This law monitors the waste that is produced and used in our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u278	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Gawłowski to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u279	Thank you very much. I asked the question, why is this bill, and Mr. Chairman, the senator has run away from the answer. Well, Mr. Senator, I will read: in the event of a malfunction in the electronics system. You said so nicely that this system works, and the authors of this law, which was actually created in the Ministry, are simply writing about the fact that the law is created only to create the possibility of registering in case this system does not work. Of course, he has a whole series of flaws and he doesn't really work. They talked about it yesterday at the Entrepreneur's Committee meeting. It is enough to read a number of publications in municipal reviews, in various sources and in industry journals that deal with municipal waste management. Today we have a huge crisis in the area of waste management. He's real. Its consequences, no matter how much you curse reality... I say, you will be and I address it to the government, not you, Senator. The consequences have already been pulled out because Deputy Minister Mazurek responsible for waste management has therefore been cancelled. I have recently heard that the new Minister responsible for this area is to be Mr Ornamental. He got the courts, so he's probably gonna be a great waste specialist. I don't know if that's true. Of course, I'm talking about this part under the title "Decoration" but the reality will reveal these things very quickly. Mr. Senator, the bill is written only to give time to implement a system that doesn't work. You know it, I know it, the Minister knows it. Even you used the term "in the main component" in your speech. That's not a question. And yet the waste system... Mr. Senator, I would like to point out that we are at a point where questions can be asked. Yes. Even though you've already significantly exceeded the time of the minute for questions, you haven't asked a question. I'm on my way, Mr. Marshal, to that question. I'm gonna ask you one more question. Is this bill written to give this system a chance to actually arise at the end?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u280	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask you to answer the rapporteur's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u281	It was the senator's speech, who somehow expressed his opinion. I don't necessarily have to agree with the senator's opinion, actually I disagree. This system is introduced to improve, as I said earlier, the functioning of waste information. Let's stick to that. The problem is... Indeed, the bill provides that something may fail, something may not work. In view of the above, I have made it clear that in the event of a failure of the waste database, the deadline for submitting part of the reports will be extended until the failure has been resolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u282	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jazłowicka with another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u283	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, since the system doesn't work, it doesn't monitor the waste that comes to us from abroad, and I'm wondering what this system is supposed to do. I didn't think so. And you were talking about it, too. In order to decide whether a new landfill infrastructure is needed, how we are to dispose of the entire waste disposal process, so that our citizens do not have to bear such high costs in terms of waste management. But since this monitoring does not take into account the waste that will be imported, I apologise very much, I would like to ask: how do you want to decide responsiblely about waste management policy?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u284	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u285	Senator, I have already informed the senators present at the committee meeting and invite the senator on 4 February to the seminar meeting of the Committee on the Environment, at which we will try to find an answer to these questions. This law applies to waste databases, and you have extended your speech, and rightly so, because this concern is very important, important. The Environment Commission also sees the need to talk more about waste management, including those imported from abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u286	Thank you very much, Senator. In order for the question to be asked, you signed up for Senator Bladder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u287	I'm gonna drop this question because I basically just wanted to say that we, like I said at the committee meeting yesterday or the day before yesterday, have to accept it now because the waste base actually came in on January 1st and the companies that prepared themselves properly...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u288	Mr. Senator, I apologize to you most, but I'd like us to follow the rules. In the Senate, there will be a time for discussion in which every senator will have 10 minutes to make absolutely right for himself... Okay, I'm sorry. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. ...and as it considers it appropriate to give an opinion on this law. Now is the time to ask questions. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Senator Chybick. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u289	Mr Senator, I would like to repeat the question I asked at the committee meeting, although it does not seem to be the rapporteur, but maybe the rapporteur will answer because the Minister did not answer: why is the system so highly emergency? What is this bullshit that breaks down for seven days and no one can fix it? I have extensive experience with the use of information systems that have several levels of security and which are relatively quickly repaired. If something breaks, it's two hours tops. After this committee meeting, people from the community who spoke there approached me and asked me how much we were able to suspend and break the system in the hospital. That's two hours tops. They're getting off individual... That's why I asked, Minister, what kind of system is this? After all, these systems are getting better every year. If you know, rapporteur, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u290	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u291	Dear Professor, Senator, the concern that this system can actually function should also be an appeal to the Minister to take action in some way to be taken by computer scientists so that this system can function properly and work well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Adam Szejnfeld with another question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u293	Thank you very much. Well, the time to ask a question is short, so it won't give you a chance to run out, at least at this point, interest, but I'd like to ask you this at the same time. The state of documentation and IT systems is one thing, of course they require urgent intervention, but the facts require even more urgent intervention. In Poland there is a drama about waste management, especially as regards local government units, municipalities and cities. The piles of garbage are growing, with them rising prices and thus the cost of living for citizens. I would like to ask if the committee that you represent, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the government Maybe you know that. It is working today on these very urgent issues concerning all municipalities and all citizens in Poland. It will soon be necessary to solve this growing, very difficult problem for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senator to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u295	Mr. Senator, the concern of the members of the Senate committee is this subject that you raised. That is why we are doing this seminar to diagnose the problem that is, together with local authorities, and to ask the Ministry for urgent action in this regard so that this situation does not occur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u296	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of senators who wanted to ask the question was exhausted. I would like to reiterate that the bill was introduced by Members. I therefore have a question for the representative of the government present in the Chamber, whether he wishes to speak on the bill under consideration. Yes, I would. You're welcome, Minister. Mr Ireneusz Zbarga, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u297	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In response to the Marshal's question, I expressed my willingness to speak because of some false statements which were expressed in the questions addressed to the rapporteur. The first and fundamental issue, which I would very strongly like to address... I would also like to ask your senators, as responsible and opinion-makers, not to spread false, incorrect opinions on the resignation of Minister Sławomir Mazurka. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Sławomir Mazurek, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate... His departure from the Ministry of Climate was not least related to the BDO Act or the issue of waste management in Poland. Completely different matters lie at the root of Minister Mazurka's departure from the Ministry of Climate. While speaking, I would like to thank Mr Sławomir Mazurk in plenary, here in the Senate, on behalf of the Minister for Climate, for the enormous work that has been done on this bill, for preparing and implementing the waste database, the base that works, which is a good tool, is functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, referring to the questions that the Senators... Minister, I'm very sorry, but the questions to the Minister will be asked after your speech... Good. ...in the course of which you are asked by the House to respond... Of course, Mr. Marshal. ...not for the affairs of others, what you did just now, but for the bill under consideration by the House. Of course, Mr. Marshal. Therefore, some information related to the functioning of waste management in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the BDO Act is a great success in the implementation, in the functioning of... It's not true that this system doesn't work. It is based on a web system as a cloud that has security features associated with the operation of this system. Today's difficult situations related to waste management in some areas of Poland are a prognosis of solutions that were introduced in 2013, mainly the regionalisation of the market and the liquidation of the so-called "market." the in-house model, i.e. the possibility for municipal companies to receive waste. As can be seen from the data available, from the proceedings of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, this led to price comparisons, to monopolies, to the submission of tenders in public contracts below prices, so-called. dumped, especially by large multinationals, which have monopolised and divided the market among themselves. Contracts concluded for several years Some of them are still going on so far. The result is that local government units are doomed to a price dictatorship imposed by these entities. In turn in 2016... Oh, let me remind you, dear people, that the waste database as a solution was adopted at the statutory level in 2012, but the entry into force of this system was postponed until 2015, i.e. 3 years. In 2015, as part of That's the way it's gonna be. The hot electoral period, even before the elections, was announced to tender for the organisation of the whole waste database system, but the implementing regulations were not prepared and implemented, which constituted an important legal defect. The National Board of Appeal noted this and this invitation to tender was therefore cancelled after the December 2015 elections. The commission for the implementation of the waste database was addressed to the Institute of Environmental Protection as an institute under the then Environment Minister and implemented, I believe, Well, I'm pretty sure of that with success. In 2019 the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities was amended, so that it is possible to collect and sell waste separately with a profit for local authorities, which makes it possible to reduce waste collection costs from residents. There has been no such legislative solution before, but those local authorities that give up mixed waste have, unfortunately, to pay for it, which affects the price of waste collection. In 2016, an in-house institution was also restored, except that many local governments unfortunately have already closed down municipal companies or they have been commercialised, privatised. At the moment, many entities, local authorities or associations of municipalities are rebuilding an in-house institution, which I believe will have a positive impact on market regulation, also in terms of reducing waste reception prices from residents. It's also very important... As you remember, there were a number of fires in 2018. Several dozen fires in landfills were caused by incorrect regulation, allowing companies to store these waste illegally. Well, there was no surveillance either. At the moment, there is an obligation to monitor landfills, conduct video surveillance and, what is very important, to deposit financial collateral, financial guarantees or bank guarantees in terms of the safety of disposal of landfills, because there have been situations where companies that have disposed of their business have abandoned such waste, and then the obligation to dispose of them rested on the state or local government. On the import of waste to Poland, I would like to say that it has been significantly reduced. In 2018 a ban on the import of municipal waste into Poland was introduced, and all waste that is imported into our country is imported within the framework of waste that is raw material for processing, for processing. They must also obtain the consent of the Chief Environmental Inspector, so that the path of all transport is open, secure and there is no such situation that there is an uncontrolled import of waste to Poland. With regard to the amendment of the BDO Act, I must say that on 24 July 2018, so nearly a year and a half ago, the statutory deadline for registering entrepreneurs in the waste database has passed and unfortunately many entrepreneurs have not made this registration for various reasons. In December last year there was a accumulation of applications submitted to the marshals of voivodships in the field of wanting to register in the waste database, except that in 2017 many registration and reporting modules were closed, therefore this parliamentary initiative related to the possibility of parallel keeping documentation in the so-called system. paper by 30 June this year. received approval from the Ministry of Climate. Amendment tabled at the Senate committee meeting on extension of reporting deadlines by 30 June, 31 August and 31 October for individual groups of reports It also deserves to be accepted by the Ministry. And that's the kind of acceptance we're expressing. This solution will provide certainty of trading, and will also allow those entrepreneurs who so far for various reasons Okay, I'll be right also because of his own fault, because of some kind of negligence They didn't make that registration... But we, in our sense of responsibility for the functioning of the entire market, cannot fail to react, i.e. We do not want to hide ourselves from such statements that entrepreneurs or those who do not register and who manage waste, produce waste, segregate waste and then recycle waste do not deserve our attention. We believe that the Ministry of Climate, that the government is also from taking into account market signals, social signals. If, for various reasons, also due to some kind of negligence and omission, there has been no registration within the whole system, then we want to give an opportunity to those who have not done so. We therefore accept this legislative proposal tabled by the group of Members, the applicants, and at the moment also the amendments tabled at the Senate committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I've consulted... We are constantly consulting the functioning of the waste database with the Institute for Environmental Protection and therefore I would like to strongly stress that there has never been any failure of this system. This is borne out by nearly 190 000 entities registered at the moment, and this is also demonstrated by the daily generation of waste transfer cards at the level of 50 000 and more. So the system works. There have been two dozen-minute suspension of the system in certain modules, but there has been no system failure. He's fit, safe. I would suggest and ask that all those who are interested in this waste database take a detailed look at the instructions that are in the IT system. It happens that entrepreneurs use outdated computer programs, outdated versions of browsers, which may result in malfunctioning or delays on the part of entrepreneurs themselves. In order to conclude that there was a breakdown in the system, an official communication from the Institute of Environmental Protection, which was included in the information system, would have to appear in the waste database, indicating that such a failure had occurred. Only then could we grant the right, the right to use the paper version until the failure has been resolved. But such a message was never placed in this computer system, because there was simply no such failure. I think it's so much for entry. If there are any questions for me, I'll try to address them in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u298	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. For now, we have a report from Senator Jazłowiecka. I'll wait for the Minister to come. Then I'll ask you a question. Minister, you're welcome. Sir... I'd be very... sekundeczka, Senator. I would suggest to the Minister that he take his place closer here. It will be easier for the Minister to answer the questions that I see are going to be a few. Before you begin asking questions, I would like to remind you that the Senate's Rules of Procedure provide that these questions should not last more than a minute. After the questions, there will be time for a discussion where every senator will be able to speak. Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Senator Jazłowicka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u299	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you very much for presenting us with the situation that is taking place in the Ministry, an even historic situation, because, as you said, in 2015 you were unable to conduct a tender. And you were bound by the law. In view of the shoulders of the Regulations of Causes. You had to prepare these regulations. You also said that there were a number of different situations in 2018 because of the lack of legislation that would allow for the monitoring of landfills. I would like to ask if the result of the errors you pointed out was that the Ministry of the Environment of that time, which was responsible for this subject, was so busy destroying the forest that it was unable to prepare the relevant documents so that a good solution could be developed. I would also like to ask if, at present, staff shortages, expert deficiencies prevent you from introducing a comprehensive solution for waste management, so that we, citizens, do not have to bear any additional costs because you are only introducing prosthetics today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u300	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to answer his question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I must reply in accordance with the fact that the tender was announced by the Minister of Environment in the PO-PSL government in 2015. I think that minister, like the next minister, took care of the forest and all natural resources in Poland. The National Board of Appeal concluded that the tender announced by the Minister for the Environment in the PO-PSL Government was subject to a significant legal defect and was therefore cancelled. This invitation to tender was not possible. What else is there to add? As for the complex solutions, the senator did not state what the comprehensive solutions would be. The waste database is a great success because it seals the entire market, eliminating the grey zone. We're working right now... The solution for introducing extended producer responsibility is already announced. It's also a matter of this... There will be subsidies for local government units due to the operation of this extended producer responsibility system, and this, I believe, will result in a reduction rather than an increase in waste collection prices. This should result in a reduction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u302	Thank you very much, Minister. I see Senator Jazłowiecka wants to deepen his question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u303	I want to answer the Minister because the Minister also asked me a question. Well, Minister, we have just learned from the rapporteur, Senator Pupa, that this system does not monitor information about millions of tons of waste imported into Poland from abroad. I understand that this is why we have a system to know what landfills look like, to know how to manage these landfills, to build new ones, to change the waste disposal system, or to change it to an even more restrictive waste segregation system in homes, so that we can manage wisely. If the monitoring system doesn't cover all the waste that is stored, I'll admit it's a prosthetic for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I have been attending the Senate since the beginning of the examination of this point, and I can honestly say that I have not heard the rapporteur, Senator Pupa, inform the High House that the system does not monitor millions of tons... That's how he answered my question. You're welcome, Senator... ...imported to Poland. In general, I'm denouncing: it's not true. The system is sealed. There aren't any million tons. Monitoring shall be carried out on the basis of the European Union's rules directly applicable. In the case of waste that requires an import decision, their path is exactly, so to speak, visible in the import system. The decisions shall be taken by the Chief Environmental Inspector. And it is very detailed at every stage, almost every kilometer of transport of these waste monitored. There's a group of waste, so-called waste. neutral, green, raw materials which are imported for processing and which do not require such thorough monitoring. But we have statistics, ladies and gentlemen, official, from the Central Statistical Office. And I would like to tell you that in 2009 the imports of waste to Poland amounted to 1 million 116... almost 117 thousand tonnes, in 2010 And in 2018, it was 434,000 tons. So on the contrary. At the moment there's full monitoring, we're safe, we've eliminated the undesirable phenomenon so-called. wild imports into Poland of waste. We have also eliminated, through strict fire regulations concerning the landfilling of waste, monitoring, financial security, the arson of landfills. In Poland the market for waste and recycling, waste treatment and electronic waste database has been organized... It's very important, too. I think you know this, but it is worth noting that these are not any new obligations that would have been imposed on waste market participants and which have not so far been in force. The difference is that instead of in the paper system, these obligations are expressed in electronic reporting, in the BDO system. Importantly, the waste database in the electronic system forces some discipline, a duty related to the fact that each waste transfer card must be generated, recorded in real time. Maybe not really, because if someone runs a company in a continuous system, they can program that they go home at 6:00 p.m. or 4:00 p.m., and this card is generated, for example. 5 p.m. or 3 p.m. when the waste is actually transferred. It's possible. The system allows, at the same time, at a given minute and in a given second, to register and operate thousands of waste transfer cards. I'm sure it's new. It must be realized that any novelty in some way may irritate, may upset, but I believe that, Dear Senator, we will all be very pleased with this at the end of 2020. Because it's not about making things difficult for entrepreneurs. The target is superior. The primary objective is environmental safety, improving the quality of life of residents, ordering the entire waste management sphere. And I think that we will assess the end-of-year balance very positively in the implementation and functioning of this system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u306	Thank you very much, Minister. The senator who asks the next question is Senator Janusz Gromek. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u307	Minister, there's been a lot of confusion, especially in micro and macro companies. They were running around looking for a way to solve this problem. And in public space there are many inaccurate and contradictory information on this subject. The Marshal's Offices wrote this man who has Biogas Active company from various voivodships provide different information. Officials of the Ministry of Climate similarly. The training of officials was foreseen for the second half of January 2020 and the Act entered into force on 1 January 2020. Anything you'd like to say about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, It must be said that the Institute of Environmental Protection has conducted trainings for 9 000 people interested in the whole market, including marshal officials. If the Marshal's office so organized the work One of the authorities, I assume that's an exception. The fact that he only trains officials at this moment, after the entry into force of this system, in this case it is a sin of omission on the part of this marshal's office, which you are talking about. In addition, the trainings are online, they can take place in the current time. There are no obstacles for these trainings to be carried out at the moment. There's such important information. I have indeed met, ladies and gentlemen, in the media space, and even in certain information files generated by marshal offices with false information. One of the Marshal's offices informed the curia by bishops or parishes in one of the voivodships, as for example I inform the High House here that... What a mess... That's important information. He reported that those parishes that have parish cemeteries in their resources must register in the database system about waste. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion this is an anti-state action, in a sense even destroying public confidence in the institutions of the state as a whole. There's no obligation. All municipal cemeteries, parish cemeteries, operate in the municipal waste system and are not obliged to register in the waste database system. That's why I think that... maybe I'd blame it on the fact that it's something new and not all marshal offices have full knowledge. But soon, I believe, the entire market will operate professionally.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u310	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will now be asked by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u311	Thank you very much. One corrigendum at the beginning. Minister, it is worth passing on real data to the High House. You do not need to use GUS data, you should use the data of the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor, because it is this institution that consents to the import of waste into Poland. As I am aware, in 2015, at the end of the Platform's governance, these approvals were issued for around 150,000 tonnes and at the end of 2019. For a little more than 460 thousand tonnes per year. It is important for the High House to inform you of the real data that are needed for anything, not the statistics that are useful to you only and only to this debate. This is the data, Minister, given... you don't have to shake your head either. This is the information provided by the Minister in response to the interviews. But I don't want to waste my time because I'd like to ask you a few questions. Allow me to speak further in the discussion, of course, if the marshal permits. First of all, you said there was a price dictatorship in this part about private entrepreneurs. Fortunately, you have explained that these private companies were actually created as a result of the privatisation of municipal companies. You just didn't say 60%. the transport market in the waste part was created in this way, through privatisation of municipal enterprises in different parts of Poland. And note: it was privatized by various people, including those related to the PiS, so that the matter was clear. I would like to ask how long these agreements are concluded between private companies and municipalities, which under the law were obliged to select these companies by tender. And do you have any knowledge of any price conspiracy? And if so, have you taken or have your predecessors taken any action regarding this price conspiracy? This is, I'll remind you, illegal. That's one thing. Secondly, you said, Minister, that entrepreneurs were obliged to enter the waste database by 24 July 2018. That's actually real information. But in December It was not in December 2018 nor in 2017 but in 2019 that you updated the regulation, which defined a group of companies and entrepreneurs who had to sign in. I'd like to ask... I'm not asking you how much time you gave because you gave me three days. It was just before Christmas. Most entrepreneurs did not notice that there was at all an amendment to the Regulation. The Regulation itself was signed on 30 December. So it was done absolutely for the rhyme, it was a way of saving the situation, so that the waste database that you're so praising, that everything works and everything is fine, could take off. But some of the businesses that were released under this regulation have entered this waste database. Then tell me how they're gonna sign out now. Because they don't have to, and they signed in. Explain how these entrepreneurs are supposed to solve this problem. Because there are far-reaching consequences of entering this waste database.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u312	Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but the rules are precise and we're talking about one minute. I am very liberal and I allow everyone, on every side, to prolong this time, but you really cannot expose my liberalism to excessive stretching. Bravo, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I'll speak freely. After all, you have the opportunity to speak in the discussion, which I ask. Very much so, Minister, please answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have provided statistical information from the Central Statistical Office, but in the Central Statistical Office these data come from the Chief Environmental Officer, so these are exactly the data that you are asking about. These are data from GIOŚ, they are disclosed and can also be read at the statistical office. So how much was it in 2015? Mr. Senator, please remain calm. And speaking of the senator's questions about the price dictation... Unfortunately, it happened. This was the case, objectively speaking. Municipal companies that have been commercialized and privatized... Regardless of who had sympathies, political views and ideas, since such a legal solution was adopted by the Polish Sejm and became applicable law, in-house had to compete on the market on equal terms with private entrepreneurs. This is why many local authorities, local government units privatized these companies. But, what is important, please pay attention to who has become the owners of these companies. In the vast majority they are large multinationals, not small local companies. And according to the case law of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which confirmed... These judgments are available in the UOKiK system. It confirmed the emergence of oligopolies, monopolies, price comparisons. It all had a very negative effect on the entire market. This has caused, together with regionalisation, Dear Members, that the prices of waste have increased because entrepreneurs have divided the market among themselves. What were the actions of the Minister of Environment? It took such action that it initiated an amendment of the Act and in 2016 the institution in-house was restored. But what happened... the senator asked how long the waste collection contracts were made. Up to four years old. According to the Act, up to 4 years. And in a situation where... You are aware that 4 years is a very long time for such a company, which has so far been very narrow, only in the market for the collection, storage or recycling and treatment of waste. And many of these companies have lost their basics. That's why many local governments are just tedious at the moment. That's what I said at the beginning of my speech. Slowly and slowly, either individually or as associations of municipalities, it rebuilds something like an in-house company that will allow for minimal costs... After all, municipal units are assumed to be enterprises that are not profit-oriented, but mission-oriented, for service to the local local self-government community. The year 2019, December, comes out the regulation, there are 3 days for consultation. Dear Member States, the provisions of this regulation have been aimed in such a way that small entrepreneurs, for example barbershops, cosmetics which produce a small amount of waste... Here we have chosen such a direction that these small entrepreneurs, who are described in detail in this regulation, are removed from their obligation to enter the waste database. I think that this is a solution in favour of, and not a solution that makes life difficult, and therefore a short time for consultation is not much important here, because this is a positive solution that has a positive impact on the functioning of the market. In addition, these small waste generated by these businesses can also be collected in another system, such as fluorescent lamps can be returned to the store or at another point, which is specialized in receiving such waste. What else? This is where the senator asked how they signed in. Very simply, there is a module, the trader can apply for deletion from the waste database and the same trader will be removed from the waste database according to his application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u314	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm just here to fill in the questions I asked at the committee meeting. As far as some bookmarks are concerned, they are not always well specified in the bill and there are some discrepancies. Can comments be made to the Ministry, to the preparatory body, i.e. in this case to the Institute of Environmental Protection? I understand that's what the Minister is saying. Hey, hey, If this is an implementation phase, you can still see the possibility to clarify and improve things, right? That's my first question. Two. What happens if by 30 June and until then the deadline for submitting applications and paperwork and by BDO system is extended, not all companies will register? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are committed, as state institutions, to building social trust, so dialogue is still possible. Applications de lege ferenda resulting from the practice can be submitted. Here I very much appreciate the initiative of the president, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to hold a meeting on 4 February of the entire industry, stakeholders who could still talk about this. Although legislation today in the context of the waste database is over... We're still in the middle of a legislative process, but as far as the presentation is concerned, it's over. However, this does not mean that we cannot improve the system. All requests which will be collected, submitted to the Institute of Environmental Protection or directly to the Ministry of Climate will be analysed and reviewed in the field of EU law. If necessary, it will involve another amendment of the bill, but... Ladies and gentlemen, I say this in a sense of goodwill, the point is that we make a good law. Let us remember that we are really a pioneer, a forerunner. In Europe this is a system, which is a kind of novelty, we are introducing in Poland a system which so far does not function anywhere in Europe. I think that this year, in 2020, we will lead to all possible inaccuracies, if they are, and in the reception of entrepreneurs... Well, we're setting up... listening to these voices, they're extremely important to us. It's not like we want to blame anyone, even if objectively it's on someone's side because someone hasn't registered because they have a bad program, they have too weak equipment. We want to ensure that the legal system, the actual system in the form of an electronic waste database is functioning as best as possible, and I think that this is within our capabilities, it is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u318	Thank you very much, Minister. Then I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have just heard here an incorrigible statement that it is as if ministers destroyed the Bialowieza Forest. Who or what really destroyed the forest: ministers or barkers? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u320	Thank you, Senator. I would like to remind you that the questions, in accordance with the rules that I have just presented, may concern the law at issue. Nevertheless, since various parties have abused this today, I am absolutely not repealing your question, but I am asking the Minister to answer it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried politely, diplomatically, to express my appreciation of all the successive ministers, so I believe that environmental ministers who have worked in the sense of responsibility for the common good, also natural resources, both during the times of the PO-PSL government and later, in the times of Law and Justice, have done so in the best faith and with the best results at that time. And speaking directly to the senator's question, let me put it this way: in my deepest conviction This is an objective observation that the work of the barkers has led to the destruction of the forest. It is debatable what action we should take and how this forest should be classified, whether human interference is possible, indicated or not. Because in the next few decades, 100 years, it may turn out that the lack of human intervention in the field of management, the protection of the forest against the natural threat, in this case from the barkstones, can lead to the fact that this forest simply will not be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u322	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u323	Minister, you inspired me with your speech to ask the question, because you said that in Poland you have ordered the waste market, that you do not want to blame anyone, read: the Ministry is not responsible for this situation, we will not finger who is responsible. I'm a little surprised because when someone comes with an amendment in January in the context of duties that were until the end of the year, but the previous one, it's hard to say Here about ordering the chaos. And, of course, it is difficult to call this amendment well prepared in such circumstances, in the context of this obligation concerning the waste database. But today there is no choice but to adopt this amendment, otherwise we will have even greater chaos. In that case, I would like to give you a little heads-up so that you can have a chance more in advance of the Ministry's plans to say, for example. I would like to ask you, in the context of resolving waste management problems, what we know is crucial in terms of waste treatment or thermal disposal: does the Ministry plan to support new waste treatment facilities and support for thermal waste disposal facilities? Please consider this question as an extraordinary opportunity to give notice of the Ministry's plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u324	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u325	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! First information, I think the senator knows that very well. This is a parliamentary submission. It was a parliamentary bill, but accepted by the Minister of Climate. It must also be said that the law, if adopted by the High House and signed by your President, will become applicable and enter into force on the day following its adoption, but with effect from 1 January 2020. Therefore, we do not foresee any legal gap in the continuity of the rules. A certain answer to the senator's question may be that it is a matter of philosophy, responsibility for what is happening. So if the market responds, for different reasons... As I said before, entrepreneurs were obliged to register in the waste database until 24 July 2018, but many of them did not. It's hard for these entrepreneurs to explain, it's hard to explain why. But since that fact exists, we can't underestimate it. That is why we accept the proposal of the applicants and support this amendment aimed at not leaving those who, how to say it gently? By a certain Prime Minister in another situation they stayed bloomed like this: you should have insured yourself. We listen to the voice of society, we listen to the voice of entrepreneurs who for various reasons It's his fault, not his own. They did not make this registration. That is why, on an ongoing basis, there has been a reaction of the Members of the applicants at that time. In this case, Members of the Law and Justice and acceptance of this request by the Ministry of Climate. Important information that sheds new light For some of you, most of you know this very well. On the functioning of the system in the waste database, it is that today, as stakeholders, we no longer have an obligation to register by submitting an application for registration to the Marshal's office. Therefore, there is no longer a blockade of such applications at the stage of official treatment in marshal offices, because these applications can be submitted individually by electronic means directly to the waste database system. This gives us confidence as to the date when someone will submit such a request to the system. And to answer the senator's question about processing, disposal... I think you'll agree with me that, as an economy, as a country, we should move towards a circular economy. What does that mean? The point is that within the framework of the so-called. burning or disposing, like the senator is... [[Voice from the room: The question was: do you plan to burn these...]] ...delicately called, there is a disturbance in the circular economy. And this is about recycling, about recovery, about making us use waste as raw material for processing, and this waste that we cannot process should be used in other ways, even in biogas plants for energy generation, but it should be done in a system that generates positive impulses for business, for the functioning of a widely understood energy system, including for waste management, and will be environmentally friendly. Waste incineration is not the best solution, but in the latest technological solutions, improved pyrolysis or other solutions... Everything is debatable. I am sure that there will be support for new technological solutions. Both within the framework of the system, which we will propose in a moment, i.e. the extended producer responsibility system, but also, Dear State, within the framework of the new climate and energy policy that we are currently working on, which we are preparing. It will correspond with the new green European order, with the new climate policy of the European Union. As we know, the very large funds under the Just Transition Fund will be used to modernise the entire energy system and climate policy in Poland As we hear today in the media reports, this will be about one-quarter of the budget. I am convinced that a large proportion of the resources will also be transferred to the waste management area, including rural areas, rural areas, as waste is also generated in agriculture. Once financial support has been provided, we will be able to manage it, with a positive effect on the energy system, in the production of biogas, biofuels and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u326	Thank you very much, Minister. Then please ask Senator Kazimierz Kleina's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In your speech, you spoke about the fact that municipal companies that collect waste from households, from entrepreneurs, are more efficient and cheaper than private companies, that this is the case most often, and that you will therefore encourage such companies to replace private companies. Did you analyze the State in the Ministry, or did you? Because I got a little worked up and began to analyze the situation in several municipalities, where also there was a radical increase in the fees for the export of waste. I will tell you on the example of a small municipality, the town of Łeby by the sea, a tourist town. Last year, the export of mixed waste cost a trash company to dump 230 PLN per tonne. This year the landfill set the price of PLN 490 per tonne and e.g. The price for Styrofoam increased from PLN 200 dozens to PLN 1 thousand 700. These are all prices that are imposed by a landfill, which is communal, or public. Of course, landfills also say that it is not their fault that these prices result from the fact that various types of fees have been imposed by law or regulations in favour of the environmental fund, the Marshal's office, etc., etc. Waste collection prices have increased by more than 100% in many municipalities. Have you analysed whether this is the result of the market being dominated by private export companies? Let me give you an example of Blade, there's a small private company, 12 people are employed. If a municipal company is set up, then we're 100% of it. Sure. There will be more of these people, because the secretaries will arrive, etc. Today the owner does all the work himself. So I'm asking you how... Did you analyze whether the price of municipal waste was rising Segregated and unsegregated, of all kinds This year, it is not because of the collusion of the recipients, but because of the charges that were generated due to different types of legislation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u328	Thank you very much, Senator. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be said that a broader view of the functioning of the market gives us a report from the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection based on waste management implemented in 300 municipalities. Yeah, that's where we'll find a fuller picture. I assume that the senator is sure to provide information that is consistent with the truth, that there are some examples that you mentioned that these prices have risen dramatically, but also take into account issues related to the increase in the Marshal's fee. I'd like to remind you... This is where Senator Kwiatkowski asked me if I could see the guilty one. I try not to see the guilty, not to look for the guilty in the past, but to realize what we have come to face, but, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party agreed to increase environmental charges. It was introduced in 2017. Mr. Senator, please... But these prices, these environmental charges, so-called. Marshal's fees increase year by year. I'll remind you that this has involved... Year by year, okay, but not 100%. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. ...that it was connected, Dear State, with the cohesion funds for which Poland applied to the European Commission. In 2014, a new financial perspective, the European Union's budget, began, and this was the condition for EU policy to give us large, indeed, resources to modernise the waste management system. Do you remember that one time it was more comfortable... Maybe a little lazy, maybe because of the lack of some practice, because of the lack of a system, many private entities and local government units preferred to deposit waste at the landfill Sorry about the colloquialism. In the so-called. Hole, and these waste are simply stored there for the next few decades. The EU system and the Cohesion Fund funds of EUR 1.3 billion have just been earmarked for the creation of recycling facilities, for processing, so that we do not store them, but for waste to be raw material, also for the organisation of a circular economy system, for the introduction of an entire education system related to waste segregation, for waste treatment. There are positive effects, but at the same time this resulted in an increase in prices for the collection of waste, because these marshal fees led to the fact that on the basis of the policy of stick and carrots On the one hand, we have subsidies, we have the opportunity to apply for resources for the organisation of a professional waste management market, but on the other hand we pay environmental fees, for the storage of waste. So in order not to store them... However, the Marshal's fees forced price increases year by year. This is what regionalisation has imposed on, and the liquidation of inhouses, municipal ones, has imposed on it. Perhaps it's some sort of sequence of events which at the moment results in a price increase in the Blind that the senator was talking about. Surely the introduction of extended producer responsibility and already today the possibility for local authorities to benefit from the sale of waste after segregation, i.e. the possibility of selling and obtaining revenue from it, should result in a price reduction mechanism for waste management in the municipalities, and certainly a halt to the increase in these prices. How and why is that happening in the head? We would have to examine this individual case in detail, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u330	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, whom I would like to apologize at the same time. We misinterpreted your application... That I wanted to discuss... ...as a request for discussion. Excuse me, ma'am, and I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u331	You don't have to apologize, Mr. Marshal, because not seeing me or misunderstood me has led me to listen to the questions that have already been put to the Minister, and that gives me a wide range of knowledge, so I'm just going to ask two short questions. Namely, the law also provides for certain sanctions, certain penalties for failure to report to the waste management database. I understand that there is some kind of abolition, including both those who have not applied to this system and those who have some difficulties, because as a member of the Committee on the Environment and listening to the discussion, especially the voices of entrepreneurs, I have been given the impression, perhaps mistakenly, that this system does not work, but probably not as a whole system, but there is some internal restriction in them. Is it to be understood that by 30 June 2020 everything will be handled positively? That's one thing. And second question, short. Does the Ministry have information on the number or potential of those entities that did not report to the waste database? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u332	Thank you very much, Senator, also for time discipline. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u333	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Senator! Currently, about 190 thousand entities are registered in the BDO system. These are, above all, large operators, professional, both those that generate or produce waste, and those that produce waste, as well as those that are involved in the collection, recycling, processing and storage of waste. Those who haven't registered are mostly small entrepreneurs, mostly, in our view, that's the way it is. It is difficult to estimate how many of these entrepreneurs have not registered yet today, and I would not like to say any number. But I would like to say that our intention is certainly to provide far-reaching assistance, market organisation, market sealing, increased safety in the field of waste trading, environmental safety, ensuring a higher comfort of life for Poles. We'd like to, and so would suggestions... We can't do it. Excuse me for saying that. It's manual control. Representatives of the institutions, environmental inspectors who monitor, control, will first instruct. It's gonna be an instruction, not a financial punishment. From this point on, I would also like to appeal to all entrepreneurs. Given the common social interest that this legislative solution is dedicated to, the waste database, let's do everything we can, mobilize each other, one another. The Institute of Environmental Protection is at your disposal virtually continuously. We in the Ministry of Climate will be happy to arrange further meetings. Senator Pup has come up with such an initiative, too. I think that we all want this market to be safe so that illegal waste is not imported into Poland to eliminate the grey zone, and, most importantly, that those who do waste management every day have a quiet sleep so that they can run their business, conduct their business in such a way that they do not wonder late at night if they have done all the work. This base is really well constructed. I'm pretty sure of it. Watching the base work at the Institute of Environmental Protection... It's intuitive. We're going to give all kinds of far-reaching help. There are even further proposals on our part. There was a proposed amendment taken over by Senator Pupa in relation to reporting. The senator's talking about June 30th. That's a record. By 30 June we extend the possibility of using the so-called parallel use. a paper system. The deadlines for reporting to the High House were extended to the Senate so that everyone could learn to function safely throughout the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u334	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk joined the question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u335	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any country that has proper waste management shall set itself objectives. I have not actually heard from the Minister what the goals Poland has set itself. I mean, targets like... How much less waste is to go to landfills? According to Eurostat, this was 55% in the last year. How much more waste is going to go to the incinerator? As you know, we build incinerators in Poland. How many are built? What percentage of waste should go to the incinerator and recycling? Finally, how was food wasted in restaurants and hotels handled? That's a problem too. This is a big problem and it is not always properly solved. These goals are very important, because media coverage... It works for the public. What is the objective of reducing waste? Reliable countries can talk to packaging manufacturers about reducing packaging. The price is, Minister, the second problem. The price has grown the most this year. From Kashub, from Kościerski, Kartuski or Bydgoszcz, I have information that this year the price went up the most. You're talking about an in-house option. This is very important. The increase in the Marshal's fee is also due to something. The lowest wage is planned to increase. They are planned to be raised within about 2 or 3 years to PLN 4,000. These are very important elements and they have also affected price levels.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u336	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The objectives you are asking for are based on European Union law, directly from the directives. Poland accepts such objectives. By 2020, then, this year. This is a 50% target and by 2035 it is 65%. As far as storage is concerned, by 2035 there is a 10% target This is about waste which is no longer processingable, to be recovered. We assume that the 10% target will be reached in 2035. . About... What about combustion? There is no Union target for the incineration of waste. 13% For the last year... Mr. Senator, please... In Poland, we have adopted a 30% target for combustion, but European Union law does not directly impose such a limit or a target. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u338	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Richard Bober joined the question. I know that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Senator, but since you've asked me twice, I've allowed myself to put you at the end of the list. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In order to defend the good name of the local government of voivodships, I will say, Minister, that the local governments of voivodships have never determined the amount of the fees. They're just doing what's agreed in the ministry. And as part of the display... Oh, come on. Well, I'm asking you to speak precisely and truthfully, not so ad hoc, charging the local governments with rising prices for payments related to the use of... Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to ask me a question. I'm just trying to make amends, and I don't want to prolong it anymore, I really... But, Senator, you can only correct your own statement, which has been misunderstood, and you haven't spoken. The Minister's statement... I'm sorry. Good. Then speak to the Minister if the truth is... Mr. Senator... Is it true that the local authorities of voivodships freely set themselves the amount of contributions charged for the use of the environment in relation to entrepreneurs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u340	Thank you very much, Senator, for asking the question. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u341	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It is not true that local authorities of the voivodships freely set the rates concerning the so-called. Marshal's fee. However, I did not include any such bad opinion in my statement. If that's the senator's understanding, then it's completely wrong. I didn't burden the marshal's offices with this. What I said was in context... Because before that, there was a question here about training. I think Mr. Senator was talking about the fact that the training is scheduled for January, and the bill has entered into force since 1 January. There were a lot of trainings, 9 000 people were physically trained in all voivodships, and no matter what, it is possible to participate in training on the Internet. And they're happening all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u343	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am pleased that you have corrected the wrong answer from Senator Pupa that the system does not monitor foreign waste. And I have to tell you... I am also pleased that you confirmed that millions of waste from abroad actually came to Poland under the rule of law and justice. I've analysed this situation in terms of percentage. It turns out that in 2016 in the total of waste from Poland, those produced in Poland and those from abroad, 70% It was from abroad. In 2017 50% It was from abroad. These are unbelievable quantities. Even if they weren't millions of tons, they're incredible quantities. As I said, I am very pleased that this system monitors waste from abroad. I hope that he also monitors information on hazardous waste, checks the amount of such waste imported from abroad. I am aware that you may not be able to answer that question right now, but I would ask for an answer in writing to get it to us. The point is that you can indicate what amount of waste that is imported from abroad is hazardous waste and where it is stored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u344	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. Are you willing to answer in writing, as the senator proposed? Will you answer both here and later in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say that I don't know how the senator... I don't know what kind of information you're referring to, but it's not true. That's first of all... Chief Environmental Inspector. First of all, I'd like to point out the senator's statement that you're happy. I'm pretty much quoting I've confirmed that millions of tons of waste are imported. Senator, High Izbo, I didn't confirm anything like that. That is not true. We do not import millions of tons of waste into Poland. All the data is... We monitor the import of waste to Poland. There is a ban on the disposal of waste from abroad, so that possible imports of waste from abroad are only imports of waste as raw material, a substrate for processing. It's just that. There's a statutory ban on the landfill of imported waste, only for recycling... So I don't know what source the senator might be calling for here, because it's unfortunately not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u346	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal, Minister... I'd like to say, Senator... Excuse me, ma'am, in this round of questions, you've asked questions several times, and every time, you've exceeded the senator's minute time to ask these questions. Forgive me, but as long as I am conducting this House's deliberations, on the one hand, I will always ensure that freedom of expression and something that is the essence of democracy, a certain political expression has always had the right of presence here, but... The enemy of parliamentarians is excessive restraint and suppression of discussion, but the enemy of parliamentarians is also the anarchy of debate. If the Rules of Procedure of the Senate state yes, and not otherwise, that is, that we have a minute to ask questions, please, if you consider that these Rules of Procedure are too restrictive, then you can change it, but until it is changed, I will respect it, through respect for the Chamber, which is the upper chamber, as we call ourselves, is the Chamber of Reflection, as we call ourselves. How often we regret the collapse of the authority of parliamentarianism in Poland. And this authority must also be built through the seriousness of the debates in which we are taking part in this House. And whether it pleases or doesn't, as long as I sit here, I'll stand by it. I respect each of your senators with great respect and will take care of your rights, but I ask you to follow the rules. I'm sorry about the long speech, but it's important. We're starting this term. And let me repeat: this is my mission. I would like the Senate of the Republic to be a place of debate and a place of respect for its own regulations and the gigantic tradition of our nation, which stands behind the House called the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. We're done asking questions. As I understand it... Does the Minister confirm his commitment to respond in writing to the question of Senator Jazłowiecka? Yes, Mr. Marshal, we can answer in writing. I'm gonna ask you very much. I'm currently opening a discussion. For the sake of order, I will remind those of the senators who have already been able to sign up for this discussion. These are Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, Senator Zdzisław Pupa and Senator Kazimierz Kleina... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sorry, Senator Zdzisław Pupa has made legislative proposals. If there are any more senators who would like to sign up for the discussion we're about to begin, please report to Senator Secretary. Senator Janusz Błucherz will be the first to speak. For the record, every senator has 10 minutes in this turn of speech as a senate debate. You're welcome, Senator. There is no obligation to use it. There isn't. But there's temptation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If I had asked this question earlier, I wouldn't be here because I just want to say that we are preparing for a diagnosis of waste, but with so many senators, I don't think we're going to be discussing it, and I think this is an important debate. I in the committee said that I had, let's say, an episode in the last year that I worked at a waste disposal plant called Orli Ponds that worked 100,000 tons of municipal waste. So that I know a lot about municipal waste, about the prices that they create, and about what they result from. But I prepare and collect such information from all over Poland, so that also in the Committee on the Environment, and in the local government committee... President Zygmunt Frankiewicz obliged me to make such a diagnosis. Just so it's not like we're discussing BDO today, and I'm not gonna say anything about it, I'm gonna say that when it comes to BDO, I know from this plant. It is this system by large plants that is implemented or implemented and will somehow function. But the Minister doesn't know how many bets there are that haven't been connected, and I don't think they're gonna connect so fast. That's why I said at the committee meeting that we should take it. All senators voted in favour And work on the Waste Act, but a new law that will change the fact that the government is charged with all its costs. Because today the government is burdened with all the costs. Minister, I'm going to say this. Neither the farm nor the local government will earn anything from the waste. He can only lose the waste. Today's waste separation leads us to pay those who recycle this waste, even though they don't want it too much, for plastic. We used to get 50 zlotys or 100 zlotys for plastic, and today we pay 200, 300 zlotys for a ton. We already pay about 600 PLN to 1 thousand for tires in tenders. These are the numbers that show that we have a problem so big that... to say that a citizen will pay less, it's really everyone in this room, but everyone in this other room... We have to prepare it together. We pay the so-called fee. Marshal, environmental, which today... I don't know how much it is. 300 PLN? She grows all the time. We will pay for monitoring these facilities and landfills, for fire protection, for securing claims, etc. I would suggest that in such a solid debate, but after preparing for this debate... And we'll invite the so-called ones there. a social factor, because they have excellent knowledge. You just have to listen, and unfortunately we don't listen. The social factor told the ministers that we would not be able to run the BDO on January 1st and to extend it by a year. Well, it's extended by six months, and I hope they all find a way to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u348	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker basically said a large part of what I wanted to say. This debate is again, as it were, about the electronic database, i.e. that's what printing is about, and we're talking pretty much about waste. This discussion is incredibly necessary. I think we need to get back to the assumptions. This discussion has led me to a rather pessimistic conclusion. It seems that there is no full knowledge of how it really is with the waste management system. Today, in the committee of local government, I received several dozen more information sent in different forms. Mostly these are resolutions of bodies constituting, local government units, municipalities, powiats, voivodships On waste management. This is a dramatic situation, this is one of the biggest problems that exists in the local government and thus in Poland. Unfortunately, the diagnosis that gets out of this discussion is completely wrong. It is in this correspondence that there is a diagnosis of this state of affairs, there are examples of the necessary increases, results of tenders. The head is not an isolated case. There are a lot of such cases, as is apparent in this correspondence. These letters are addressed to all the Supreme Authorities in Poland, received by the Senate, but also to the Government this correspondence is addressed, so the State should be in possession of these letters, these resolutions. If there's a problem with that, I can redirect what I've seen to you today. It is proposed to read it because it is an authentic picture of the state of this sphere of the economy. The Minister said that one of the main reasons for the bad situation is price conspiracy. Maybe digression here. The Minister declared his openness to discussion, his willingness to cooperate, which I am extremely pleased about, because it is necessary to try to solve this problem at all. My own person, the committee that I represent, and the local government, I would propose to you as actors for cooperation. And it can only be something, because that's where the diagnosis is and what's more, the postulates, the concrete demands. What needs to be changed, what needs to be done to fix this system. They're also in those resolutions, in those writings I mentioned. There are tenders in which there are no tenderers at all. This is not proof of monopolization of the market. This is proof that it is difficult to find service providers under the conditions that we have imposed as a public authority. These conditions are Murderous especially for small businesses. The changes that occurred after those landfill fires were so incriminating for these companies... Only larger players are able to deal with this. There was talk of minimum wage, about new requirements, about time of storage, about electricity, the Marshal's fee has also been mentioned many times here, but there are more of these factors. I think the main problem is the lack of a secondary raw material market. This market has broken down, and at the moment it is completely untrue that the municipality can make money from sorted waste. Until recently, there was some money in the market for this, and right now you have to pay a lot of money to get it. The balance of the possibility of the disposal of flammable fractions with a waste stream is deeply negative. There are many times more in this waste stream than disposal possibilities. What can happen if storage is not permitted for a long period of time? This is a dead end. We're not gonna solve this problem like this, and prices are galloping. What's more, I suspect they won't stop soon. We have recently imposed a very detailed method of segregation. This destroyed systems in many municipalities and raised prices sharply. In my opinion, this is overregulation. It is good that I have heard of urgent work on the issue of producer responsibility, because without this we will not obtain the percentages declared in the accession treaty for the recovery of secondary raw materials. I hope this comes into force quickly, otherwise we'll be paying more penalties and additional costs. So let me put it this way. I believe that not here and not now, but there is a need for a very serious debate on this subject, to draw conclusions and to fundamentally change this system in order to come out of what I call a dead end. I invite you to cooperate in this work. And please involve local authorities, because knowledge is at this level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u350	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, There is no doubt that the waste management area, especially municipal waste, requires immediate urgent intervention. I think that there is also no doubt that in the area of the municipal economy about 2017 there was a profound collapse of the market. But before I talk about these proposals for the future, in a few sentences I have to refer to history. You were so clear that privatisation took place around 2013 and 2015. Minister, this happened in the 1990s. Each of the self-governments remembers exactly when this process First commercialisation and then privatisation of the companies that deal with waste management. I consciously said earlier that about 70% the transport market in the waste management area is a private market, because if you wanted to introduce clear rules today, that this is the market we are throwing out, just like that, you would have made a few problems at once. The first is compensation for these companies. These entrepreneurs invested, invested, bought equipment, acted on the market, so such a monopolistic throwing them out of the market so that anyone else in this area would have the power to apply for adequate compensation for it. Somewhere in the archives of the Waste Management Department, there are expert reports on this. I'm sure if you ask your co-workers nicely, these expertises will find you, and you'll know it's not so easy that it's not possible in this part. But that's the first of the problems. Therefore, such institutional introduction of in-house from the beginning to the end was not possible. Otherwise: same in-house as such Yes, but it is not possible to say that it is only a municipality, in fact from a formal point of view. That price dictation you mentioned doesn't really exist, because these companies, and that's already been said by my previous speaker. They provide such services that there is not so much on this market, but they require specialist equipment. And for some time now, commitment and support In particular, in this communal part, concerning not only transport but also the construction of installations The national fund and the voivodship funds are significantly smaller. I don't want to know why. I could, but I don't want to know why at this point. It was quite easy for you to deal with this problem. elimination of regionalisation. You don't need to know this, but the High House should. Until a few years ago, we had a number of waste management facilities. I don't want to use the word "composition," but it's actually the most appropriate word, because these bets didn't meet any standards that they should meet to not only accept, but also sort out waste. This process of closing these non-compliant and environmentally threatening plants had to be carried out in Poland, because this was also due to European law, not only for safety reasons, because of care for the health of Poles. You also said that the KIO questioned the tender in 2015, and that is why this invitation to tender was no longer repeated. As a matter of fact, Minister. And you know it well. In my previous term of office, I was an MEP and had the pleasure of chairing the environmental committee in the Sejm. I remember when Minister Szyszko said, what is to be found in the minutes, that he consciously resigned from the selection of the contractor of the waste data base in tender mode, that he did not want a private company, it was the year 2015 or the beginning of 2016 because the ministry would do so by its own forces. It didn't. I told you then: you can't do it, you can't do it, you don't have the right staff, with all due respect to all the officials, especially those working at the Waste Management Department. They just didn't have that kind of competence, they did, as they say, other things. Then the next minister, Minister Kowalczyk, declared: we will not do this by our own forces, we will commission the Institute of Environmental Protection. It's just that the Institute of Environmental Protection also didn't have properly prepared staff and performed for today... Today, we are actually updating the law on this area, and this clearly confirms that this waste database is still not functioning as we would all expect. Note: We really want the entire waste management process, not just municipal waste, to be fully controlled. Finally, Minister, the issue that is most important in all these very important issues concerning waste management. I said that in about 2017 the municipal waste market was particularly broken down. And you say this: we agree to... because, indeed, such an institution... This requirement also arises from international rules. In order to bring waste to Poland, the Chief Environmental Inspector must give his consent. We agree to have them come in. The Chief Inspector agrees to the raw materials. Well, Minister, you can say it's raw materials. But where are they processed? Where are those installations in which these waste materials, which are raw materials, could be processed? Minister, worse. Well, we in Poland are sorting waste into individual fractions: plastic, glass, paper, etc. What happens to these particular factions? Well, the companies that do this, which have invested in the installation, are not able to get rid of these factions, because there is no installation, because no one supports this process. You mentioned that we eliminated regionalization because it would make it cheaper. Well, nothing like that, Minister. In Poland we have already experienced this process of liquidation, deregionalization. I said that at the Environment Committee meeting, I'll say it again. The result of this lack of regionalisation, which is incompatible with EU law, because the EU directive makes it quite clear that waste regions must be created and that the whole country should be covered by one area, one region, certainly Minister, Director, is incompatible with the Waste Framework Directive... But I don't want this, let's say, the detail of the dispute. The lack of such regions led to such a huge mountain of garbage under Kórnik, a huge mountain. Wastes were transported from all over Poland to a private company, the company accepted them. This mountain really stands above the forest there. The company went bankrupt. Who has a duty to secure this area today? Who's gonna pay? Taxpayer, state budget, because there's no one else. There are more such examples. So how do you brag and say, "We've eliminated, because there's going to be more competition... Well, Minister, you will only lead to the fact that there will be more such phenomena in Poland again. Finally, this process, which you called the introduction of waste into Poland, or actually raw materials for processing. This contractual plastic I'm simplifying again, but to make it easy to understand. It is of course raw material, it has the right code, it enters Poland as raw material. I just asked where these installations were. They're gone. You won't find them anywhere. And do you know how these raw materials are processed today? They're processed with a match, Minister. A match. The depots are still on fire today. In fact, less is a success, less burns. But they're still on fire today. It doesn't change much. There are places that burn for an enta once again, someone set them on fire or, in some kind of spontaneous combustion, simply burns in the world. Places where the raw material was brought, as you call it, nicely, not municipal waste. Although for a good case, if you look closer, there's a small difference, only the code has been properly introduced to make it work like this. How does this work for Poles? You're all worried about the price here. Of course, the price is rising for several reasons. The Marshal's fee should actually be called ministerial, not marshal's, because the Marshal has no influence on the amount of this fee. This fee is de facto fixed by the Minister in the Regulation. Minister, as you were bothered that this fee was so high in 2013 or 2014. Now we are 2020, it could have been changed last year, 2 years ago it could have been reduced, increased. You could have done what you wanted because you've been in charge for five years, so don't tell me that something that happened in 2014 or 2013, you guys seem to be extremely upset and that the predecessors are guilty. It can be changed, different governments have changed You can do the same. The second reason why this price is high is that these installations... cement plants that need waste as a substrate, a semi-product for cement production, have until recently paid to companies that supplied waste. What's it look like today? Well, today it looks like cement plants have to be paid. Attention: and there is a long line of people willing to bring there. Personally, some years ago, I signed a decision to create in Poland some thermal treatment plants, and then there was a serious discussion that these plants were too much, that there would be no waste, etc. And do you know what's going on with these waste thermal plants today, how they work? It's like these presidents are waiting for a phone call, and the municipalities are calling and begging to pick up the rain from them because they have nothing to do with it. Minister, if you don't do two things... Indeed, we are having this discussion about waste management a little on the occasion of this law, which really needs to be supported, because there is no choice. Well, you can't punish entrepreneurs for the fact that the BDO system still doesn't work. If you don't do at least two things, which means you're not seriously involved in building new waste disposal facilities... Why doesn't this problem exist in the case of scrap metal? Why are junk waste processed, collected differently? Because the junk is bought because there's a market. As long as the market doesn't start on the other factions, it's gonna be the same. And you can tell things here... Minister, first of all, support for installation, real support. Secondly, this situation must be brought about. This is the simplest solution, one of the possible, but the simplest. For example, manufacturers packaging, plastic packaging, bottles, a certain percentage of the raw material they use for the production of... This is also due to EU law, I am not discovering anything unusual here. The point is that this raw material is simply recycled, recycled. If you don't do these two things, the situation in the waste market will be even worse. Poles produce more waste and this process will not change in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u352	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to the Minister, who spoke about this ideal waste management system, and I was a little scared, because from the perspective of the citizen and from the perspective of local communities the situation is very different, even the opposite. The most dramatic situation that emerged at the turn of last year and this year is the radical increase in prices for waste collection. I gave an example of the Blade, and then you started rolling that head, saying it was a single case. During that time, when you said this, he pointed out that it would be necessary to examine why this is the case, I received a text message from the authorities and mayors from dozens of municipalities and cities. Their costs increased by 80%. and in some municipalities by more than 100%. And it's not the communes' fault. Of course, these prices result from invitations to tender, but these prices consist of various things, including those which depend significantly on the government. First thing that's happened here. shown clearly, it is an environmental fee paid to the regional government, marshal offices. It's a fee that's set by the government. If last year, in 2019, you knew that prices for various things were expected to rise jumpingly ♪ and they're growing ♪ It was necessary to brake these government fees, to keep them at a lower level. Yes? Because the prices of those elements that make up the price of waste increases... Because it's not, of course, it's that fee. As has already been said here, this is also a question of pay, which has clearly increased, it is also electricity prices, which for entrepreneurs have increased dramatically, by several dozen percent. And they have to use that electricity. Etc., et cetera, et cetera, et This has already been said here, and I don't want to repeat it all. The state as a government should predict what will happen. This situation sets people, residents, citizens so that they say that this whole thing is all segregation and these requirements have been getting stronger since the new year. It simply leads to even higher costs. So the citizen's attitude towards the segregation program becomes negative. Residents Specially with us, in the western part of Poland They ask: Why does taking the same amount of garbage cost 100 PLN, and in Germany, in various municipalities, it is equivalent to 40 PLN? They also say: it is a much richer country, there are much higher prices for various things. So it's all about the inability to organize all of this. And that's what you're gonna have to pay for, too. Very, very clear is the attention. Today's problem... municipal authorities usually organized waste collection and organized landfills, places where the waste is sorted out. We've talked about this here, too. In fact, these points have been designated in voivodship programs, etc., there are several or even a dozen such places where these waste can be stored and sorted there. These are most often companies appointed by local governments. But today Although these wastes are sorted there, and often very deeply, as we have pointed out, the senators have also paid attention to this. There is a serious problem with the collection of these waste. As it has been said: the point is that today these component companies must pay for being taken away from them, and they must seek and ask those who would receive from them these municipal waste, sorted or raw materials. And that's an absolutely serious problem. It seems to me that, as Senator Frankiewicz suggested, as well as Senator Bladder, there is simply an urgent need to meet and think about how to really reorganize this collection system for municipal waste. Saying that this problem will be dealt with by in-house companies, companies formed by municipalities, that's just looking for a way to talk reality. No one can prove to me that if a small municipality is now setting up a company or a company, it will be cheaper than a company or an enterprise set up by a local government, where there are already directors, secretaries, accountants, the entire staff of people serving the company. Well, that's not gonna happen. I wish I could, but that's impossible. A small company that operates small communities... Just like I gave you in this example of this miserable Blade. I hope the Minister didn't show her again as an event... I think it's organized even better there than in many other municipalities. But she's not able to organize such an enterprise to make it from such a small community. Even though it's a hundred thousandth city in the summer... Oh, that's it! Well, how do you organize a municipal enterprise to collect waste from 100,000 inhabitants over the summer and from 4,000 outside the summer season? In a company, a municipal company, it's something unimaginable at all to organize it in such a way. So it's an ideological saying that there's gonna be municipal companies, and that's gonna solve the problem, that's the way to nowhere. It would be better to think about how to help such entrepreneurs not to actually increase these costs and, on the other hand, to tell each other what we will do as a government and as a parliament so that these costs do not increase in such a radical way. Because there is no rational justification for the fact that waste collection prices increase by more than 100% each year in many municipalities. , 80% minimum. And no 500+, no 13th or 14th pension can compensate for that. But it'll help. That's the truth. But it'll help. It'll help. It's easy to do. Mr. Senator, please... That's all this is about. Once again, I ask the Minister, together with our committee of local government, with the Committee on the Environment, may also sit down with the Parliamentary Committee and with the social partners and prepare a new look at waste management in Poland. That's the need for a moment, very serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u354	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we are proceeding today, as we have shown at the committee's meeting, deserves support because proper waste management is one of the most important things. It didn't happen in this room today. There was talk of money, problems of local governments, bad waste management, but no one said about how dangerous this is for man. We would need a very large educational action, Minister, so that every Pole knows that waste segregation is priceless for so-called. First line. I'm comparing it a little bit to medicine, where we also have the first, second and third lines. On that first line... I don't know if the ministry... You're a representative of the Ministry of Climate. All the more reason for you to be in control of what's going on with the waste, especially in big cities. I'm going to ask you to answer this question in writing, and I know it's up to the local government. - between the citizen's putting them up and the city's clean-up companies taking them away. Why am I asking this? It is known that in the city which I live in, means in Wrocław This is also the case in many other cities. In the autumn-winter period, when poor citizens, especially in municipal buildings, smoke anything, will not experience a yellow plastic bag. We inhale these plastics. Unfortunately, I can assure you that this is where many dangerous diseases start. I agree with all the speakers here that any action concerning the proper reception of waste, the rapid collection of such waste so that it cannot be used for these purposes... Maybe a little better education is enough, and people won't do it anymore. I've got neighbors like that on my street. After I talked to my neighbor about how he was hurting himself and everything, he stopped doing it. Such educational activities are essential. In the end, it spoils the whole climate. This is not just about plastic, which is why I wouldn't think about... This debate is needed, also with the participation of climatologists, involving those who are involved in the environment and the impact of abnormal degradation and disposal of waste on this environment, as well as human and animal health. A sejm group was established by Ms Gajewska, who is antiplastic. I don't know if you know this, but there's plastic in our veins. All the redistribution of plastic is just a mistake. We should walk away from drinks in plastic containers at all, because plastic dissolves. These tests have already been performed. Plastic flows in our veins, in the veins of each of us. There's more of it, the more drinks we drink from plastic packaging. I would like to ask how much the Ministry in which you work spends on education about proper distribution, distribution, waste disposal, so that every citizen knows all this. People don't know it's important that it's needed. I'm not saying that not everyone's sorting out this waste anymore. But I personally fear that some of this waste is not properly disposed of. And that's why there's such a strong increase in cancer, chronic diseases, respiratory diseases. Because there's waste in the air burned by our citizens who want to warm up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u356	Thank you very much, Senator Chybicka, on which we have exhausted the list of speakers. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Pup. I would like to ask the representative of the government if he would like to comment on the proposals put forward. At the committee meeting! At the committee meeting! At the committee meeting. As proposals have been made, I ask the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I'm about to announce a recess. Tomorrow, the Senate will begin its deliberations at 10.00 a.m. from reading the information about the state of the Polish steel industry. This is item eight of the agenda. Ten o'clock was agreed with a government representative, and that's where I'm giving it to you. The second, third and fourth paragraphs will then be considered, and after the fourth paragraph, the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, I will repeat: after considering these points the Senate will return to the examination of the first point and then we will proceed to the fifth point: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. As announced after reading the information on the state of the Polish steel industry, in the case of the preparation of the relevant reports of the Senate committees, the agenda will be completed at the second reading of 3 draft resolutions, i.e. a resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people, a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy and a resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation. These resolutions, as announced earlier, will be discussed on the third day of the meeting. I'll ask Senator Secretary to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u357	High Izbo, I give you an announcement. The meeting of the Environment Commission on the examination of applications submitted to the Law amending the Law on Waste and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-15-senat-03-1.u358	Thank you very much, Senator Secretary. Thank you very much to all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. By announcing a recess by 10:00 tomorrow night, I wish you all a quiet night. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 13]]
