ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Women's Rights Team - at 10 a.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: The Rights of the Seekers - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Environment, Energy and Climate - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of Animals, Rights of Owners of Animals and Development of Polish Agriculture - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Road Safety - hour 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I kindly ask you to ask Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Mark Pole from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the United Nations forecasts, the population of Poland will begin to decline for the next decade. Despite a slight increase in the fertility rate, our society will grow older and older, which means that fewer and fewer people will be working on pensions for an increasing number of older people. There is also no shortage of warnings from the Central Statistical Office, which wrote about the official entry of Poland into the period of the next demographic crisis, which may be much longer than the one from 1997-2007. Estimates are also available that around 2060 the number of people of working age will decrease by around 60%. while at the same time increasing the number of persons receiving benefits by virtually 100%. I have a question to the Minister: What are the long-term measures planned to improve the existence of Polish families and, consequently, to increase the number of births, without taking into account the current programmes, and are there any other projects that aim to improve the living conditions of Poles? Thank you. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u4	Thank you very much. Are you Marek Polak? Yeah, yeah. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u5	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Poland in 2016 13 thousand were born. children more than a year ago, and in 2017 the increase in births reached the level of 20,000. This was noticed by the Spanish media, which attribute this positive trend to the effects of several social programmes, especially the 500+ programme, but also indicate that one woman of childbearing age in Poland has 1.4 children, and in Spain, which has one of the lowest birth levels, is 1.3. It follows that, despite the systematic growth of births, we are still in a demographic crisis. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what further action the government intends to take to address this still unfavourable demographic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u6	Thank you very much. I would like your answer, Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr. Messengers! Everything that Members have said in their question is true. The number of 21 million is recently loud in the public media space. This is the prognosis. The UN, which indicates the number of Polish population at the end of this century. This means that our children, the younger ones, the preschool ones today, will live to see this time when there will probably be 21 million people in Poland. And this is an optimistic option, ladies and gentlemen, because this UN forecast assumes that the fertility rate in Poland will increase in the coming years. On the basis of this increased fertility rate, such a scenario is envisaged. The more pessimistic scenario, based on the indicators and trends we have today, predicts that there will be about 17 million of us. Success. The ageing of the Polish society is a fact and it is a very dynamic process. According to our data already in 2050, the Polish population will be one of the oldest. The number of women of childbearing potential is decreasing. Between 2013 and 2050, the number of women of childbearing age, i.e. between 15 and 49 years, will fall by 38%. I would like to say that since the fertility rate in Poland has fallen significantly below the generation replacement level, i.e. less than 2.1, the demographic structure of Poland has changed permanently for almost 30 years. And this is a process that is very difficult to reverse, this is a process that will take years. As you mentioned, the fertility rate from the lowest level we faced in 2015 when it was below 1.3 - which is considered by demographics to be very low - has increased to 1.45, and this is a significant difference in the right direction. Of course, it's far, far too little. Demographic processes are processes that consist of a lot of phenomena, a lot of indicators that we are currently dealing with, which requires a comprehensive and long-term response. There are no quick solutions that will cause us to significantly change these numbers within 1 year or 2 years. I will say more: even if using a magic wand we increased the childhood in Poland twice today, to the level that is in Israel, i.e. over three, we would still be struggling with negative natural growth for the coming years. We must be aware that today they end their post-war yearbooks, this is a post-war demographic increase, and we are dealing with a birth scale of 380 and 400 thousand. This is a much, much lower level than in the case of these numerous yearbooks. Therefore, negative natural growth over the coming years is inevitable. That doesn't mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be passively watching. It is the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, that has noticed this problem - as everyone here, I think, we have noticed - four years ago and that is why the 500+ programme was created and all the other actions that the Government has taken in this respect during the previous term of office. As I see that I have little time, I will not talk about all these programs in detail, you know them very well. I will only mention the programme "Maluch+" because its implementation had already started before, because in 2011. Oh, bravo! Under the rule of the Civic Platform. It's true. There are a few things that the Civic Platform has begun to implement, for example an extension of... [[Applause]] May I continue? Excuse me, but I've got one minute left. I'm talking about extending maternity leave, starting the implementation of the programme. [[Applause]] The Law and Justice Government has stepped up these efforts strongly. I would like to point out that during the Platform's term of office, 15,000 were created during the first four years of this programme. Places. Over the next few years, twice as much. The measures have been increased three times. This is, of course, not enough. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this term, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced the preparation of a great demographic strategy. This is what serves as the appointment of a government representative for demographic policy, which I had the pleasure of staying. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken a great deal of work and, I think, I can promise from this place that over the next few weeks we will present concrete, further-reaching measures that will be conducive to this... In vitro. Of course, I can say that we will start with what the Prime Minister said in his exposé, i.e. flexibility issues in the labour market, flexibility for women (the bell) and easier return of mothers to the labour market. Thank you very much. I think I'm out of time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u8	Thank you, Minister. I wanted to tell you that you are the first minister to raise the applause of the Civic Platform. Congratulations. The additional question will be asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Are steps being taken to develop crèche infrastructure and to facilitate the receipt of grants for opening them? What measures are envisaged to improve the existence of young couples, enabling them to acquire housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u10	Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Scandinavian countries, unlike the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, do not have problems with children and this seems to be the result of the wide availability of public childcare under the age of 3 years, as well as facilitating the return to the labour market of mothers and the functioning of flexible forms of employment, e.g. Part-time, which is rare for us. Hence my question: Are we going to use Scandinavian countries' solutions and patterns to achieve a higher birth rate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u12	Thank you very much, gentlemen. Minister, three minutes. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u13	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start by answering the second question. Of course, we are looking not only at the Scandinavian countries, but also at all the countries in the Union that have achieved good results in this area, because it must be mentioned that this is, of course, not only our Polish problem, but also the whole of Europe and not just the whole Western world. It is true, as the honourable Member has pointed out, that there are also countries that are dealing with this problem. They are Scandinavian countries, but it is also France, which has been conducting a very active and extensive pro-family policy for many decades, for a very long time. All good ideas that have the chance to help us in this situation, in our Polish specifics, because this also needs to be emphasized, will be considered and taken into account. As for the first question concerning the programme for the extension of nursery networks and institutions to care for young children, of course we will develop these programmes. Changes are being prepared, which will also serve to simplify the efforts to obtain funds for crèches. As soon as we can share concrete ideas, I am sure that you will find out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Zdzisławie Wolski, I inform you that only those who have asked the first questions have the right to ask additional questions. That's the rule book, so I'm sorry. But there's the minister, you can come over and ask. I'm sure he'll be happy to give you an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Jakub Rutnicki and Kazimierz Plocke of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition has decided to ask a question about the immediate measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to prevent the spread of African swine fever virus (ASF) throughout the country. On behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Secretary of State, Mr Simon Giżyński, will answer. I ask Mr Jakub Rutnicki to ask a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We talked about the ASF case and what's going on. Let me concentrate on the territory of Wielkopolska, especially on the district of Wolsztyn, Nowytomyski, between the towns, where we have an area of production, for example in the municipality of Siedlec it is 250,000. pigs every year, this is a giant branch of industry. There is great concern, because since the ASF virus appeared in the Lubuskie voivodship, near the East, as a result of slowness of action, this virus has spread, Minister, the situation remains unchanged. I'm after talking to local government officials from this morning. They are doing everything they can to secure breeding to help farmers, and there is no real, big action from the ministry and central authorities. And for this all the time, Minister, there's a big request. In the vicinity of Kębłowa, the municipality of Wolsztyn is once again found dead wild boars in which the ASF virus was found. The military appears incidentally, mostly when it comes to searching for dead animals. You really need big, giant action here, Minister. The Wolsztyn county is already a whole red zone, and on the scale of the county in terms of pork production, it is a huge number of people employed, also in terms of the whole food and processing industry. So that we expect concrete action. I would also like to hear a clear declaration from the Ministry. God forbid, Minister, but if this virus were to appear on a farm, would you guarantee financial aid and compensation for farmers? They want to hear it from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u16	Thank you, sir. Minister, come in. You have six minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The formula you used, you used in the question, concerns situations that are already taking place. The reaction was immediate and everything that was happening happens positively in the formula: immediately. As far as the Wielkopolska Voivodship is concerned, the threat occurred secondary to the Lubuskie Voivodship. Since November 15th Ub. r. - because it was confirmed at that time in the end and we were already very well prepared for this fatal possibility, that we will have to deal with this virus jumping the area of Poland by 300.360 km - in Lubuskie Voivodeship in 3 days what has to be done in order to entrap the virus was completely prevented from entering the outside. But it was known that we were fighting in foreign territory, where certain things could have happened a few weeks ago. Instantly a fence, fence or partition between Lubuskie and Wielkopolskie Voivodship was created, with a length of more than 100 km at the moment. And then, when in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, there were cases in the district of Wolsztyn - and so far there are two - we devoted the same exactly to each case, according to the same concept, which was realized in the Lubuskie Voivodeship, i.e. a fence with a radius of 5 km. It was one case, and it happened immediately, and the other case, and it happened immediately. These are fences glued to this partition between Lubuskie voivodship and Wielkopolska voivodship. So that's where we do the same thing. I will use an example used many times, but not abused, because it is never enough to remind you that what we have implemented and implemented in Lubuskie voivodship and now in Wielkopolska voivodship is an exact replica of the Czech case, which is how the Czechs dealt effectively with ASF - full isolation and liquidation, according to European Union directives, step by step, week by week. The point is to isolate so that nothing gets through. The European Union's inspectors keep it under control, and they control it effectively, and they do not have excessive comments. Here is some expert cooperation, not following orders or instructions, especially the reprehensible. Everything's working just the way it's supposed to. It's effective, the virus is cornered, there's no rational reason at the moment to think he's gonna get through. On the other hand, in full compliance with the European Union directives, there is a total reduction in the population within these compartments. So this is exactly what we can say about the question of Mr Jakub Rutnicki. With this very important answer, if such a misfortune were to happen - you put it that way, didn't you? - it is immediately the government, the Polish state will come to the aid of farmers who will be affected by this misfortune. We are, of course, talking about financial assistance. For today, however, we have done literally everything, in accordance with all the directives and procedures that had to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a few moments left, so maybe I can tell you about something other than what follows directly from the law which was adopted by the High House - yesterday there was a heated debate on this subject in the Senate, but also as a result of the votes the ideas of the law were accepted - and which gives the possibility of a collective, full trial with the ASF virus and the eradication of this virus in Poland. But before this happens in the sense that we will already have these legal means, fully guaranteeing the implementation of certain concrete ideas, I would like to say that it is in the context of Wielkopolska, in the context of the Lower Silesian, Lubuskie voivodships, that what will be very clearly described in the law, is already practically happening and will happen. By the Prime Minister's decision, by the decision of the Minister of Infrastructure, we are barging these transitions so that there is no least possibility of migration of infected boars. Motorways A2 and A4, i.e. from the German border to Poznań and from the German border to Wroclaw, are already extremely difficult, and this process will end within two to three weeks. The roads in this level of S3 and S5, which is the highways of high-speed traffic... S3, which is between midnight and noon, is already in custody, and S5 will be soon, within two to three weeks. So we have a square that's gonna be completely safe when it comes to possible migrations both ways. It's an absolute guarantee that the virus doesn't spread. Bioinsurance controls are very strong. We've accelerated this enormously. At this point, we already have a 90% check-up. , even 92% of all farms (the bell), and we had very, very much to catch up on here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u19	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to add a few more questions to what Mr Rutnicki said. I wanted to ask you when the government will present a national program to fight the ASF. Secondly, will there be increased funding for the veterinary inspection activities in the 2020 budget? Thirdly, when will the government introduce a 100% reimbursement of bioinsurance costs in small farms? Let me remind you that this is now 50%. Fourthly, I wanted to ask whether the government plans to launch a nationwide information campaign aimed at consumers, to the Polish society in the field of information about the effects of ASF disease. Let me remind you that agricultural organisations transferred almost PLN 5 million to public television last year, even though TV also received money from the state budget. And one last remark. I would also like to ask the Minister, the Ministry, to support our 2018 proposal to set up a permanent parliamentary subcommittee to monitor the fight against ASF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u20	Thank you, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! Membership! It is that the national program against ASF is of course. This consists of strategies of government proxy, which are still applied to the center, but they include. it has resulted from the actual creation of a national programme against ASF, which is the law, its literal record. This is something that will end the ASF in virtually very close perspective. The measures you have asked, Mr President, for bioinsurance and for the fight against ASF will be completely adequate, forced, in quotes, also by the provisions of the Act, because there are clearly shown possibilities, already entirely legally, not as possibilities, but as mandatory applications, where the State Forests can and must in practice finance all these divisions, obstacles to animals which will be possible and necessary to apply in the practical fight during these hunting. The same is true of those people I mentioned, where the Ministry of Infrastructure will have the opportunity, read: simply necessity, opportunity, but also the obligation to subsidize this and take on my responsibility the financing of such projects that I told you about at the first question. So there's a number of such applications. As far as small farms are concerned, such a programme is also prepared. He will be dedicated to small farms whose misfortune will touch. The last question was... Perhaps you will remind me, Mr Bauer, because I have not accurately noted. The establishment of a permanent sub-committee of the Parliament. But no, earlier. Bioinsurance up to 100%. No, not before. Polish information action on ASF. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also quite clear that this action we are conducting, not in passing, but with full conviction and full assumption that it should be so, where we are defending the principles of the law, is very widely informed... Besides, you are also helping us to do this by raising a number of concerns that we take very seriously, but at the same time with great satisfaction. Most of these requests, these questions, relate to a non-existent situation. We are happy to say that only practical ideas apply, which will start to work when the law - I hope very quickly (The Bell), on the days - will already be implemented. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the questions asked by the Member and Members of the Parliamentary Left Club. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula and Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska address questions to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts, Minister Zbigniew Gryglas, who will try to answer these questions. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u23	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question concerns ST.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u24	Thank you, sir, for the interesting question. Minister, six minutes at your disposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! Membership! The Member was kind to recall the history of ST. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2017, since October, the company has been subject to an accelerated judicial restructuring procedure. Between December 2018 and October 2019 the company acquired several ownership loans, so it was supported by national entities. The aim of all these actions was to heal, to improve the situation of the entity. I must tell you that, unfortunately, these historical events, which are very heavily incumbent on the company, still have very negative developments on the market, technological changes which have led to the fact that the company has actually lost its main product. This interest in the company's main product, the foundations for offshore wind farms, is decreasing. Technology has changed. Today they dominate the so-called. Monopals, these are constructions of a different type, which the company is not able to produce in the currently desired sizes. Such modern foundations will be used in Polish offshore projects. So, in short, the company requires deep technical restructuring, but also ownership. Ladies and gentlemen, the Industrial Development Agency has made a very positive offer to buy a company, continue its activities and solve its fundamental problems, as I said, from historical backgrounds. However, as a result of the judicial provisions that blocked the company from obtaining loans, and in view of the repeal of the resolution of the creditors' board, these restructuring measures could not be implemented. I answer the question of the future of the company directly from the Member. Let us remember that bankruptcy is also a tool for restructuring. Our intention is to lease the company, continue its business, because today the company has two contracts that it will be able to carry out. And this is the nearest period. The company, of course, in this supply chain planned for the development of offshore wind farms in Poland will play an important role, I am deeply convinced of that, so it has a future ahead of it, but these developments need to be cleared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, do you have an additional question? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u27	Minister! Thank you so much for this information. Although I was a little worried about the fact that, as far as the partnership agreement is concerned, which we obviously do not know, there is still a significant impact of a private partner, even though 80% He's got Mars in it. Therefore, my question is: Were there any conversations with a private partner in this regard to change the company's contract and that we really have the opportunity to raise capital and perhaps otherwise operate? The second point is whether, taking into account the strategy of energy companies, energy companies, because this strategy includes the construction of farms in the Baltic Sea, we are not able to persuade (the bell) energy companies to act in the restructuring of this company.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u28	Thank you, sir. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for these questions, very specific, very substantive. Let me put it this way: talks with a foreign shareholder have been conducted - I do not want to reveal all the details of these talks - but they have not led to consensus. Here the shareholder's attitude was quite determined and this is also one of the reasons for this difficult situation. As far as the future is concerned, this future is indeed quite positive. I will remind you that according to the Polish Energy Policy programme, it is planned to gain 10 GW of new power on the Baltic Sea, which means to build about 1,000. windmills, thousands of foundations, thousands of towers, so the demand for such elements will be very high. Whether an investor should be the shareholder of those entities that supply these products for the purposes of the farm, that is another question. It is not always the case that an investor must own all the entities that supply it with the farm construction process. It doesn't seem like we're gonna be dealing with this situation here. Let me just say that we are working on a solution that will allow the entities of the State Treasury to be concentrated in one hand, those who will be active in the construction of offshore wind farms in the Baltic Sea. One such area is also the business of ST.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u30	Thank you, sir. Thank you, Minister. I would like to cordially welcome the Members of John the Boat... Good morning, Mr. Marshal. ...and Mieczysława Kasprzak from the parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15, who would like to ask questions about the garbage crisis in Poland addressed to the representative of the Ministry of Climate, to which will be Minister Ireneusz Nagroda. In the meantime, I welcome the young people to the gallery. Hey, guys and girls! Welcome! Please, sir. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u31	Thank you very much, Marshal. Good morning again. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this written formula, we asked the government a very general question about the waste management system, because we do not want to be part of the rhetoric of shifting responsibility in government-government relations for the existing state of affairs. Unfortunately, it's already happening. And the problem is huge, for the time being, at the declaration stage, but you're about to have to pull a penny out of your wallet, and that's already a lot of money, and it's still growing. We are aware that these increases are necessary, but they are due to many components. The Lublin Communes Association, one of the corporations, has prepared a very good analysis, which shows that factors affecting the increase in fees include a whole range of components, among others. just an increase in rates for the admission of waste to municipal installations, insufficient capacity for thermal treatment of waste and no possibility of efficient use of the RDF, the need to adapt the municipal waste management system to legislative changes, the leakage of the system, the lack of competition on the market or insufficient competition, rising energy prices, transport, labour, fuel excise duty, but also limited - that is the last such element, the market event - the possibility of disposal of selected waste. Local government officials not only point to reasons, but also offer a whole range of good solutions. I would like to present this in a written form to the Minister after his reply. On the other hand, if I make it, I will present a few such demands of self-government. They call for the development of gasification installations and the disposal of RDFs, the implementation of extended producer responsibility (the bell) for the production of a given product, the reduction of current burdens, the labelling of products and, as stressed, education. This is, in my opinion, a very important element in the attempt to reduce prices for waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u32	You've made a very good time, sir. We invite Minister Ireneus to profit. Gains or loses... Eh, you may not have said that, sir. Every name has to be respected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u33	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The Ministry of the Environment, and now the Ministry of Climate, has already implemented a number of solutions to enable municipalities to implement waste management activities more effectively and to reduce waste management costs and consequently the charges levied on residents. They were introduced by laws adopted in July 2019 which entered into force in September last year. Therefore, the results of their implementation will only be visible once the mechanisms put in place have been fully implemented. However, before I present these solutions to you, I would like to remind you of the reasons for the situation faced by local governments in Poland in the field of waste management. Until 2012 there was a system of commercial bilateral agreements between real estate owners and entrepreneurs in Poland. The rates for the collection of mixed waste and the overall packaging fraction were determined by the operators on the basis of the cost account of the business. As part of the costs, businesses have, unfortunately, only determined the costs of transporting and depositing waste in landfills or, worse than that, in illegal places, such as: gravel excavations. That's why for many years the rates for residents were low at that time. I would like to remind you that in 2014, when the PO-PSL government negotiated issues related to the Cohesion Fund and negotiated the amount of EUR 1300 million under the Cohesion Fund for the construction, construction of waste treatment facilities, it committed itself to introducing the so-called. increased environmental charges. It was known to all of us the Marshal's fee, which was then increased by successive resolutions of the Sejmists of the Voivodship Self-governments. This meant that the prices for the collection of municipal waste had to increase. Unfortunately, I have to note with regret that the changes made at that time, including the previous law adopted in 2012 by the government or by the parliamentary majority of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, have eliminated in the framework of the amendment of the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities so-called. an in-house institution. I mean, municipal companies that had been involved in waste management, waste collection, waste disposal have been... They could, on equal terms, participate in tenders announced by the municipalities. This led to price comparisons, as indicated by the proceedings of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. There have been such oligopolies or even monopolies, and unfortunately this has resulted in price collusions, which also resulted in an increase in prices for the collection of municipal waste. The changes made at that time were unfavorable. The municipal waste management system was covered by all residents, including mandatory owners of immovable property inhabited by residents and, optionally, uninhabited. The rates of collection and waste management fees began to be determined by the municipalities' councils. I can see that time is moving very quickly, so I would like to say that unfortunately the PO-PSL government postponed the entry into force of these regulations related to the increase of environmental charges for the nearer indefinite future, 2015. It was only after the elections that the Government of Law and Justice had to deal with this issue and lead to an agreement with the European Commission. In 2016, however, we made an amendment which caused the municipalities to eat, to use municipal enterprises within the framework of the so-called. in-house without invitation to tender. But, ladies and gentlemen, the contracts that operate after the tenders have been concluded for three to four years and these effects are still ongoing. Only after the agreements are concluded, and there will be good will of local governments, i.e. municipalities councils, and of course the executive bodies of the municipalities: wójts, mayors, presidents, will it be possible to begin to rebuild this in-house system. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the whole system of creating more competition on the market may result in lower rates for the collection of municipal waste. In addition, last year, just in 2019, we amended the law on maintaining cleanliness in municipalities and by abolishing the obligation of regionalisation in the field of municipal waste treatment. This is a very important issue, because earlier this regionalisation mechanism was very negative for local governments, for local government units. He caused extortion. If the municipality was sentenced to supply waste to a specific landfill (the Bell) or waste treatment, it was sentenced to costs imposed by that entity. Besides, in the... Thank you, Minister. You'll still have time after the extra question. Can we go out like this? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u34	Great, thanks a lot. I would like to ask you an additional question, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u35	Thank you, Marshal. We have asked very constructively what solution is seen by the Ministry, the government, because today the problem is huge. It's not a story storytelling, it's not a storytelling, it's a burden on someone, it's been back four or eight years. At the moment, there is this problem: a jumping increase in prices when it comes to garbage, a dozen and sometimes even a few hundred percent. It is a drama in many municipalities. In many municipalities of the farm, farmers have to pay for the garbage disposal more than they pay for the land tax. It's coming to paradoxes. We wanted to ask if the government saw any way to compensate for that. The Minister said: increase in energy prices. That's right, there's an increase in energy prices, but on the other hand we hear that citizens, citizens, will not feel an increase (the bell) in energy prices. And that translates directly into that. Can it compensate for the rise in energy prices? Can he compensate the local government? Maybe the trash companies will be compensated. an increase in energy prices? A concrete solution is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u36	Thank you, sir. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u37	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, I must say that the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of the Environment, have taken care of Polish society, the interests of local authorities. I do not wish to be pinchy, but it is the policy of the predecessors whose effects are now being realised that has led to an increase in the prices of municipal waste collection. On the other hand, it is still very important, ladies and gentlemen, which I must remind you of. Do you remember the great drama associated with the ignition of dozens of landfills in Poland in 2018? It's the trash mafia that's done the carteling, the market division. It is a fully informed, pre-planned operation, the storage of waste in places not equipped with fire-fighting systems, so that it can then be used for so-called companies. The poles that took the waste... They benefited financially and then declared bankruptcy, disappeared. Those were rudimentary cases. Our anti-fire package introduced in 2018 prevented this. Of course, at the moment video surveillance and other sharpenings related to strict fire regulations have led to the absence of such cases, and if they are, they are incidental and do not result from conscious, planned action. Financial guarantees have been introduced, fees to be paid by the landfill operator. The lobbying of these companies caused some regulations to be shifted over time, will enter into force only in March this year. I would like to announce today that we will consistently defend this legislation to come into force, because our job as the Ministry of Climate is to protect the social interest, to ensure the safety of the inhabitants. Of course, the costs associated with the operation of the whole system are also intended to be reduced. Among other things, the Law of last year, which entered into force in September 2019, the amendment of the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities, gives the possibility to reduce the charge for waste management using the funds derived from the sale of secondary raw materials collected selectively. The municipalities... There's no sale. Right. But, gentlemen, if the municipality can make money from waste and sell it directly to the recipient, why doesn't it just pass on mixed waste for which it still has to pay? This involves a certain effort which the local government must bear, but this is the responsibility of the local government. According to the Act (Dawn) it is the local government that is responsible for the management of waste in its territory. Certainly, the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Climate, also in this area of energy, which Mr Kasprzak spoke about, will aim to use waste as an energy source and give people a chance to lower prices for municipal waste collection. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We were talking about whether the locals would pay less for the garbage and whether you would stop charging all the costs of the commune. Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Gentlemen, I love you very much. And I respect that, but we're done discussing this. We're going through... One sentence. Minister, you can always say one sentence because we like and respect each other. There you go. Just don't argue, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The residents will pay less for waste if local governments cooperate with the government in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oh, bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u38	Good. The obligation to cooperate certainly lies with one and the other. This time I kindly ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Wojciech Sharama from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for a question on the co-financing of the so-called. a rainy system designed to stop rainwater. The Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate will answer Mr Ireneusz Goga, whom we have already met in response. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Given the water resources available to the world and our country and the data available to the public, we can see that the amount of water per inhabitant is below our expectations. It is also a growing phenomenon to inform residents, mostly smaller municipalities, of water shortages, especially during the summer period. Many cities and municipalities decide to implement programmes that create a rain system designed to stop rainwater. The aim is to reduce the use of treated water from urban water stations by up to half, to relieve the burden of urban sewerage and to reduce the risk of urban flooding and flooding. This kind of programmes that are needed today are mainly made up of richer municipalities. However, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has analysed the possibility of launching its programme, the effect of which would be measurable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u40	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for this question, extremely important from the point of view of climate policy, relating to the management of rainwater. As we know, unfortunately in Poland due to climate change, the decline in groundwater levels and the occurrence of droughts year-to-year during summer periods are progressing. In response to the question, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Climate and previously the Ministry of the Environment, together with environmental, environmental and climate stakeholders, are carrying out activities aimed at securing local self-government units from the negative effects of climate change, including changes in the sustainable and climate-adopted areas of rainfall management in local self-government units. The Ministry of the Environment has developed the State's environmental policy 2030. It is a strategic document, a development strategy in the field of environment and water management, which was adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2019. State environmental policy is the most important strategic document in this area. Its role is to ensure the ecological safety of Poland and high quality of life for all residents. Among the directions of intervention of environmental policy are among others. adaptation to climate change and disaster risk management. The state's environmental policy provides that adaptation measures will include: support the development and implementation of urban adaptation plans for climate change, the construction of the necessary flood protection infrastructure and small retention facilities. Activities will also focus on managing rainwater in urban areas through different forms of retention, developing green infrastructure, limiting land occupation and soil sealing. The need for action in the field of rainwater management is further reinforced by climate change forecasts, which predict that the frequency and intensity of extreme weather phenomena, particularly in the case of heavy rains, will increase in the coming years, and in addition will extend the rain-free periods. The consequences of heavy rains are often urban floods, so-called. Instant floods, and submersibles causing material damage, health and human life risks, in turn, rainless periods are the cause of drought, water shortages. In this context, adaptation is essential. In order to improve the resilience of cities to climate change, the Ministry of the Environment carried out the project in 2017 and 2019. The development of plans to adapt to climate change in cities above 100,000. inhabitants, co-financed by the European Union under the Operational Programme All 44 project partners identified water management as one of the most important areas for climate change, including, above all, the area of rainwater management. It follows that one of the basic measures to improve the resilience of cities and adapt cities to forecasted climate change in water management is the construction and development of a sustainable system of rainwater management. These systems will be designed to reduce impacts and prevent flooding and flooding and storage, i.e. the retention of rainwater for the period of drought and its distribution systems, in particular the application of green and blue-green infrastructure solutions. Sustainable systems will slow the drain of rainwater into the tanks, stop, retort and use of rainwater. In particular, it is important to highlight the important role of blue and green infrastructure, which, in addition to climate change resilience functions, performs a number of other functions in cities, increasing the comfort of life of residents, e.g. as a place of recreation, recreation as well as environmental and natural functions - creating aeration wedges, animal habitats, ecological corridors, increasing biodiversity levels. Among the actions responding to the ongoing and forecasted climate change, the government has provided the possibility for local government units to obtain funding for sustainable management of precipitation water under the Operational Programme (Facilities and Environment) 2014.2020 Action 2.1 type 5 BP. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, experts, meetings of One of the most important functions of such sustainable systems is the retention, retortion and use of rainwater at the place of their origin, in particular by natural methods. So far, three competitions have been completed under this type of project, which resulted in the signing of grant agreements with beneficiaries, with local government units and their associations for the amount of nearly PLN 960 million. There is currently another competition in this type of projects for which an allocation of PLN 50 million is planned. I would like to say that a very important element of this policy is the issue of retention or building water grades using (the Bell) for energy purposes, for example on the Vistula. This is what we are talking about at the level of plans and projects so far, but I think this could be an excellent issue of sailing, the economic use of this water route, but also an improvement in the situation of flood safety and the use of water for agricultural purposes, irrigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u43	To my additional question, the Minister has answered comprehensively already in the first part. Let me ask you this: Will funds be used to support EU funds for these purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. It is extremely important, my fellow Member, to continue these actions, which with such good results in the previous term started the Ministry of the Environment, but we are fully aware of the growing challenges of climate change. They should not be underestimated, because we do see that from year to year these weather phenomena in the form of long-lasting droughts and then such nasty rains, lightning discharges, sudden weather events are very severe to society and we will take many such sustainable measures within the framework of climate policy to reduce the impact, also by preventing, monitoring, predicting certain phenomena. I would also like, in particular, to respond to the question by the Member, to say that, within the framework of the new financial perspective of the European Union after 2020, 2021 and 2027, it is planned to continue support for rainwater management projects, as well as support for activities in the field of blue and green infrastructure in local government units or municipalities, in urban areas, and work on preparing this perspective in the field of adaptation to climate change has already been started in the Ministry of Climate Change. I would also like to inform you that the Ministry of Climate provides for support for actions carried out by local government units concerning the retention of rainwater using blue and green infrastructure in the framework of the currently prepared new financial mechanism of the European Economic Area, so-called. Norwegian mechanism for years... The competitions for these activities under the financial mechanism will be launched in 2020. We have the beginning of the year, but this year we should expect the preparation of complete documentation of the announcement of competitions, therefore the appeal from this place to local governments, local government units to follow the work of the Ministry of Climate. I think that in this respect our cooperation should be very coherent, advanced for the benefit of urban areas, for the benefit of the inhabitants of cities. It is also worth noting that the possibility to finance actions in the field of sustainable rainwater management and the development of blue and green infrastructure in cities was provided under the priority programme of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the form of a loan with the possibility of redemption. So that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, in this respect, as in the case of waste management, which I mentioned in the previous point (the Ring) good cooperation between local authorities and the government will bring good results for the benefit of the inhabitants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u46	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. Goodbye, Minister. Thank you for coming to the Sejm. Mr Michał Grammar and Mr Marta Golbik from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will now ask a question about the actual state of implementation of the programme for the Silesian Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. The Resort is represented by Minister Grzegorz Puda, whom we welcome. I invite you, sir, and in the meantime, welcome the kids to the gallery. Hey, kids. Good morning, good morning. Minister, you have the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u47	Honourable Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of December 2017, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the programme for Silesia with a great pump. After 2 years of implementation of this programme and after a dozen weeks of waiting for public information I managed to obtain a summary of 2 quarters 2019. The reading of this protocol, this summary, prompts me to ask the following questions: What is the real amount of funds that you have invested in the Śląskie voivodship during the period of operation of the programme? In the document the amount of PLN 45 billion hits the eye. measures involved. But what does that mean? Because if we count the real money spent in individual project cards, we get 8 billion, of which the lion's share is the construction of the A1 motorway, as well as the credit products and guarantees of state banks. How do you understand the concept of measures involved? 'Cause I feel like it's different than everyone else. In my favorite, for example. for semantic reasons, the intelligent mine project enthusiastically reported involvement is PLN 700 million. In fact, less than 10. None of the 17 sub-projects have been completed, one can be considered advanced. Of course, the issue of obtaining funding has been shown among the risks. It is even more worrying to abandon innovative projects. According to the protocol state there will be no coal gasification installation, no hydrogen production installation, no mineral gas disposal installation. You've walked away from these projects. Even more disturbing are the type records: classified data. Final question: Why is this protocol not publicly available? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u48	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer these few questions that you have addressed to us, realizing, of course, the value of this program, it is worth mentioning some of the facts that you need to know about. Firstly, the programme for Silesia is an open program. I mean, this is a program that is still alive, to which you can add new elements, which we are obviously looking for and which we are really asking you to do. If they're good, we can certainly add them to the Silesian program. And those that were once written, and it turns out that for some reason they cannot be realized, for example. the policy of one of the companies that have been added has changed, for obvious reasons, should not be included in this programme because it would be a program that does not function. The idea is that only these investments, those solutions that are to be implemented, will work in this programme. It should also be said that the programme for Silesia is one of those key strategic projects carried out within the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy, which was announced, as Mr Mateusz Morawiecki rightly said, by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Since that date, a lot has happened. Initially investments, projects were 73, at the moment their number increased quite strongly. At the time of the announcement, 73 investments or actions were presented at the estimated amount of approx. 44 billion PLN. After the last update in October 2019, this is the most recent information, the programme already has 116 projects, the value of which is estimated at PLN 62 billion. 48 billion zlotys of this amount are already working in the economy. And this is the state at the end of the second quarter, which is half a year. The number of projects carried out, as well as the scale of the measures involved, make this programme the largest project in the history of regional policy in Poland. It is also worth adding that the programme for Silesia, apart from the fact that it has openness, which I said at the beginning, is a program that functions because the government, among others. negotiates the amount and conditions of support for this programme, e.g. support for post-industrial regions within the framework of the Union's Just Transition. Given the scale of the challenges associated with this transformation of the economic profile of Silesia, the programme for Silesia is likely to be the largest beneficiary of this support. I am responding to this commitment of resources because I think you are interested. According to the state at the end of the first half of the year, the funds involved under the programme for Silesia are PLN 48 billion, which I mentioned, including - and it is worth to emphasize - PLN 14.8 billion already contracted, the financing agreements are signed. The commitment of funds according to the objectives of the programme for Silesia is as follows. It is worth noting that we have the opportunity to list several goals, exactly six. The increase in industrial innovation and development investment in the region is PLN 11 billion. Increased employment and skills of residents of the region - 0.7 billion PLN. Improving the quality of the natural environment - PLN 1.3 billion. Development and modernisation of transport infrastructure - almost PLN 16 billion. The fifth objective, the exploitation of the potential of the Silesian voivodship to ensure the energy security of the country and the development of innovation in energy - PLN 16.3 billion. And the sixth objective, the improvement of the development conditions of the cities of the Śląskie voivodship - almost PLN 3 billion, because 2.9 billion PLN. Because we don't have much time, maybe to escape another question... The amount mentioned by the Member covers all the agreements that have already been implemented under this programme, but also those that are contracted. In other words, we also include all investments and activities, such as: the infrastructure and environment programme or other programmes have been contracted, or contracts have been signed and are not yet cleared, which seems quite natural. This means that if we include the funds that have been earmarked and the allocation is already in place, we have put it under the quotas in question, and that is why there is the difference that you have said. The current selected results of the implementation of our programme are the funding of 45 projects in areas such as: Energy, automotive, medicine and the steel industry. About 3750 new jobs will be created, responding, thanks to ten investments in the Silesian Voivodeship. 47,000. people under the age of 29 have received support for the development of professional competences. 31 thousand. people over 25 have been trained to use the Internet. 33 km - section of the A1 motorway from Pyrzowice to the Częstochowa South junction was put into service in August 2009. Later in December 2019 another stretch of length 20 km, bypass Częstochowa. Thanks to support from POPC nearly 120 thousand. households in Silesia and 530 public units have access to broadband Internet. Within the framework of the PO WER 2014,2020, higher education institutions were supported in the development of new courses of studies corresponding to the socio-economic needs of the region. I would also like to point out that, because it is only part of these projects (the bell), these investments, a fairly long list is generally available from all the 116 that you have asked for. If necessary, I can, of course, give you this list even here. It is also worth looking at the information published in the form of a publicist, as you mentioned. I mean, it's not true that this information isn't available. We've got it in the... [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister, you'll have time after the extra question. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Thank you, Marshal. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u50	Thank you very much. From what you're saying - it's obviously not mean, what I'm going to say, because I don't want to be malicious in any way - it turns out that I'm going to drive less than six hours to my district in the middle of nowhere. That's great. [[Joy in the gym.]] Member, I would like to invite you very warmly. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Coalition. Here's an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Unfortunately, I have to worry both your marshals and Silesians. In Silesia we call this program: PiS for Silesia. There's no denying it was a program that... And the Dungeons, Mrs... And the Dungeons. I'm so sorry, of course. There's no denying that it's a program that was created before the election. For example, just a few days before the Katowice elections, a special economic zone under this programme launched a special service dedicated to the programme for Silesia. It cost 120,000. zł. Attention, it is visited by an average of 270 users per month. Bet on free WordPress. You haven't answered any specific questions. You haven't told me where these measures are involved, and that's what this was all about. Because a very general talk about what will be accomplished, or a general name for programs, is not the answer to questions. But perhaps by the way, you will also address the issue of this great portal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that I am from the same voivodeship. That's a good fight. Good and kind, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: I live a little further away. But, Marshal, from Warsaw to Bielsko-Biała Pendolino train takes less than 3 hours 20 minutes, so the Marshal can take other roads. Bravo Platform! And about... No, I'm just driving a car, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: And in the car, Mr. Marshal, we drive the same road unless you drive through Kielce. You can go through Gdansk. The shortest route is between 3.5 and a maximum of 4 hours. I'll be on my way to Katowice in a minute and I can show off this time. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, to answer the question... I don't want to go into polemics. I'll go with you, okay? Because I've been driving for six hours lately, especially because of Częstochowa. If you have a rooster, it's faster. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Come on in, Marshal. Okay, thanks a lot. Please. I'll give you time, of course, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the question about the portal: we are well aware that such portal functions. Its main aim was primarily to inform about the current progress of the work in each of these projects. December 6th - the latest information. Barberbug. We also know very well that in this portal one of the assumptions was the creation of a map, which will show the current course of these works. On the other hand, we happen to own the strict sense since December 6. At the moment we are waiting for the settlement to be prepared by the Katowice Special Economic Zone, how these funds were spent. And as far as these specific questions are concerned, you'll forgive me, but as if we weren't owners by then. Therefore, if I may, I would ask you to address such questions to the zone. I think that's where you'll be able to get that information. This information is generally out of the question. There won't be any problem, I hope, with that kind of information. If there are such problems, please contact us. We will certainly be able to assist in obtaining this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u54	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Members. Please, Members: Barbara Dziuk, Anna Gembicka, Grzegorz Wojciechowski and Elżbieta Duda from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to ask a question about the government dental prevention programme and the availability of dental services for children and young people. The questions will be answered by a representative of the Ministry of Health, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. I warmly welcome your Members and invite you to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the age of 5, only every fifth child has no caries. It is important to know that there are a number of problems at a time when the youngest loses their milk for solid teeth, and other diseases and health complications develop. The main reason for this is the low level of dental prophylaxis in the youngest. With this in mind, the Ministry of Health has taken a number of educational and health measures in cooperation with local authorities. It should be pointed out that the tooth decay is spreading at a very rapid rate. An unrecommended outbreak of this disease can attack the milks one by one, and it can also spread to the teeth of the permanent teeth. Here's a question for the Minister. What has been achieved since the implementation of the Ministerial Preventive Programme since 2018, as regards the programme objectives for the main objective and the specific objective, i.e. increase the availability of children and young people to dental services provided in dental offices and the availability of dental services for children and young people in public schools by equipment for school dental offices with dental equipment and necessary to secure the delivery of benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to invite you very, very kindly. Isn't it nice? Everybody smiles at each other. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u57	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, tooth decay is one of the main problems with regard to the oral health of children and adolescents. The main cause of this problem is to a large extent the lack of systematic prevention, the absence of control studies and of course this is related to limited availability to those providing benefits in this area. Therefore, the Law and Justice Government, while aware of this problem, has taken concrete measures to increase access to dental services for children and young people, and has also increased funding for these benefits. For the whole program, which is currently being implemented in Poland, in terms of improving access to dental services for children and young people, as I said, we have been preparing for several years. Already in 2017, the Sejm adopted a law on the basis of which they were purchased, among others. dentobuses, i.e. mobile dental offices, one for each voivodship. These dentobuses have been contracted by the National Health Fund and provide benefits throughout Poland. From year to year these benefits are increasing. These benefits in dentobuses are preventive benefits. It is also implemented as part of these benefits a broad programme to promote the prevention of oral health and this is a very important element of accessibility to health services. At the same time, in 2018 the Sejm adopted another law on the basis of which funds were transferred to local governments, which are the bodies running schools under which local authorities could, if they saw a need to, finance the purchase of equipment necessary for the creation of dental offices in schools. And it was a moment when local governments could apply for these applications. In total, 40 dental offices in schools were financed from this programme. For this purpose, we spent 116 thousand dollars in one office. zł. The next stage, which guarantees that the whole system of care for students is integrated, is the Law on health care for students, which was adopted by the Sejm last year and started its work since 12 September of that year. In this law, we comprehensively regulate the issue of health care for students, emphasising to a large extent prevention and promotion of health, but also very clearly point out the principles on which dental services are to be provided. And in this law we provide, among other things, that in order to increase access to benefits, they can be implemented in a school office, which is equipped with appropriate equipment, operates on the school premises and has a contract with the National Health Fund, but also this availability can be secured by the conclusion of a contract of a school authority with a dental office operating in the environment of the school, which also has a contract with the National Health Fund, which means that these benefits are fully financed by the National Health Fund. This system was to be complemented by the dentobuses I was talking about. This system is working right now. Many schools have signed contracts or have dental offices. We estimate that there are more than 700 dental offices in schools that have contracts with the National Health Fund and provide both preventive and control benefits and repair benefits. Here I would like to remind you that the National Health Fund has increased the valuation of dental services for children and young people, increasing the point weight to 1.5. So the dental benefit given to children and young people is more funded - by 50% more than this type of adult benefit. 100% funding is also guaranteed benefits for children and young people. So that is also a very important part of the functioning of these offices. And of course, if there is no cabinet school with which to sign such an agreement, this applies especially to rural environments, sometimes small towns, dentobuses are available. These dentobuses are doing a very good job right now and doing their job. The number of children benefitting from benefits and benefits increases from year to year. Last year more than 53 thousand benefits were received from the Dentobuses. children, this represents about 20% of the dental benefits provided to children and adolescents. This shows how much they were needed in the environment and how they are used. Of course, these dentobuses have established working schedules on the basis of requests from specific local authorities addressed to the National Health Fund, to the voivodeship branch, which together with the entity who has concluded the agreement for the operation of the dentobus, sets out the timetable for departures or the schedule for the stay of the dentobus. These dentobuses are very often in individual schools, as I say, especially in these small towns, as much time as is necessary to provide benefits. This may be even a few or several days if the health of the pupils in the community requires it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u58	Thank you kindly, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Elizabeth Duda, the Law and Justice Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, Thank you for a rather comprehensive answer, but I have an additional question in the context of the planned actions and assumptions of the Ministry of Health resulting from the recognition of the need for dental prophylaxis for children and young people after years, which has to be stressed, its absence. Are there any benefits to this programme, and what are the benefits? Second question. I am curious to see what local and ministerial cooperation looks like, how it is conducted, to secure all children and young people taking advantage of the preventive offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u60	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As I mentioned, actions under the programme started in 2017, 2018, and in fact since 12 September Ub. The programme has already started in 100%. The first effects, the health effects, will only be assessed after a few years of operation of this programme, but of course we monitor the situation. The oral health tests of children and adolescents are carried out every 4 years, so the effects of the programme will be analysed later. On the other hand, we can point out how the number of benefits financed by the National Health Fund has increased. Once again, I would like to stress that all these benefits, both preventive, control and remedial, are financed by the National Health Fund budget, the local authorities are not charged with any costs for the operation of this programme. And so on. In 2018, the number of dental benefits granted to children was 187 077, while by August 2019 there were already 215 567, i.e. the number of dental benefits clearly increasing. So this is the effect that we wanted to achieve. On the other hand, as regards cooperation with local governments - there are indeed certain situations that require our support, and this is the support we provide. Some local authorities are not fully aware that these benefits are fully financed by the National Health Fund, that this does not burden the budget of the municipality or district, so we provide such information. They often ask us for information about who they can sign such a contract with, because in the surroundings the office is not working or there are offices that do not want to sign such a contract, so our suggestions are concrete. Contact with the National Health Fund, the appropriate branch of the voivodship, which can show a list of healthcare providers who have signed a dental contract for children and young people. Since they are financed by public funds, they are also obliged to provide these benefits to children. If there's no such thing around the school, we'll also inform you about it. A lot of self-government people use it. Please be informed that it is appropriate to contact the National Health Fund. Indeed, after establishing the timing of the location of the dentobuses, these dentobuses come, as I said, depending on the needs even for several, several days, because the first visits are preventive and control visits. The child is then informed, parents are informed whether there is a need for dental intervention or if there are any health problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In that case, they shall be informed. A parent and a child may apply on the next day to receive this benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u62	Thank you, Minister and Members. Many Members from the Civic Coalition, Mr Rajmund Miller, Mirosława Nykiel, Mirosław Suchoń, Tomasz Kostus and Mr Witold Zembaczyński, have asked a question about the difficult situation of hospital emergency services throughout the country. This question is answered by a representative of the Ministry of Health, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska. I invite Mr Rajmund Miller to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The situation of the entire state medical rescue system in Poland is highly worrying. The lack of a strong response from the Ministry of Health may soon result in further dramatic situations affecting human health and life. I would like to point out that the issue of the activities of the SORs is an outstanding example of the lying of reality by the politicians of the governing camp about the sound financial condition and stability of the health system in our country. One of the reasons for the current situation is the establishment of further restrictive regulations which are objectively very difficult to comply with, particularly in the context of the difficult staffing situation with regard to the availability of doctors on the labour market and the under-financing of benefits provided by the National Health Fund. Reports from many regions of our country, including in particular from Opole, e.g. concerning the Voivodship Hospital in Opole, and from Mazowsze, as regards the Bielanski Hospital in Warsaw, they clearly show that the problem is universal and can occur in other regions of our country at any time. The words of President Andrzej Duda, who stated in December that the conditions in the Polish SORs are indecent, are also proof of this statement. It should be stressed that every hospital rescue unit is part of the system of State Medical Rescue, i.e. a system that was created to effectively secure rescue services in our country. What is extremely important, the functioning of the system in the area of a given voivodship is the responsibility of the voivodships and they, within the framework of their statutory competences, draw up plans for the operation of the voivodship rescue system, which are directly supervised by the Minister of Health. In view of the above, I ask the Minister to intervene in this case, in particular to take action to improve the functioning of the SORs in our country. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry see that the problem of the lack of medical staff, the underfinancing of SORs and the enormous debt of county hospitals is about PLN 14 billion, can have extremely adverse effects on patients? Is it possible for the Minister's opinion to close hospital emergency services in various regions of Poland in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u64	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, hospital emergency services are one of the elements of health care in our country. Personally, I think it's one of the most important ones, because there are patients who are at risk of life and health. That's why we're trying to get the S.R.S.s to do the jobs they've been put in front of them. In order for the hospital rescue unit in Poland to function well, three basic conditions, in my opinion, should be met: good law, human resources and good funding. Therefore, in the middle of last year, i.e. 27 June 2019, the Ministry of Health issued a regulation on hospital emergency services, which was developed jointly during the work of a working team with representatives of the emergency medicine environment, which meets expectations and patients, but also medical personnel providing medical services in hospital emergency services. This is a response to signals coming from hospital emergency services. These included mainly too long waiting time in the SORs for first contact with a doctor and an excessively prolonged diagnostic process in the SORs. After first contact with your doctor, you have been waiting too long for additional tests, for consultation and for a decision on how to proceed in your case. It was also an excessive burden on emergency services for patients who were not in a life-threatening state. We have therefore decided to issue this regulation in order to clarify the obligations of healthcare providers who have hospital emergency services in their structures. The main change was the introduction of uniform medical qualification rules for patients who report to hospital emergency services, depending on their health status. When a patient is applied to a hospital emergency unit, he may receive a ticket, which is the document in which he is required to report to the hospital emergency department. If a patient is brought in by an emergency unit, then this document is collected by a member of the emergency unit. The patient will then be interviewed and a preliminary assessment of the patient's condition will be made by qualified medical personnel: a system nurse or paramedic or a system physician, and then he will be classified into five different categories depending on his health status. As far as the first two categories are concerned, so-called. the urgent, red and orange categories, the contact period for the first category is immediate and the second category is no more than 10 minutes. This includes sudden cardiac arrest, shocks, multiple organ injuries, acute coronary syndromes or pulmonary oedema. The system we are introducing is a patient service system in hospital emergency services in all SORs in Poland. It will be operational as of 1 January 2021. We want this system to work in the largest SORs in our country to begin with. Doctors working in the SOR told us that they were additionally burdened with the need to search for places in hospital wards in order to continue their treatment. Well, we have to bear in mind that SORs can't be separate from the whole hospital, so we've obliged hospital directors to provide an adequate bed pool for hospital emergency services so that the patient doesn't have to stay for a dozen hours or even -- it's happened -- 2, 3 days in the hospital emergency department, so that he can be hospitalized. If there are no such places in the hospital, the patient should be transported to another hospital by hospital transport, which should be provided by the healthcare provider. The diagnostic rules in the SOR have also been clarified to ensure immediate access to this diagnosis. It aroused a little anxiety and controversy in the environment. This immediate access must be interpreted as meaning that this is access without undue delay, i.e. the test must be carried out in such a way that it does not endanger the health of the patient who applied to the hospital emergency department. We've also worked out the rules on hospital rescue personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, 5800 000 are reported to hospital emergency services within a year. persons. For comparison, medical rescue teams leave to 3,200 thousand. events. In 2015, 5268 thousand were sent to the SORs in Poland. patients and in 20185813 thousand. That's almost 600,000. More. According to the data we receive from the National Health Fund and from the voivodships, almost 80% patients reporting to hospital emergency services are not in a state requiring immediate medical attention, i.e. life and health emergencies. As far as finance is concerned, in 2015 97 166 thousand were allocated to 221 SORs. zł, in 2019 we allocated 1 616 822 thousand to 237 SORs. PLN (The Bell), i.e. over 4 years, there has been an increase of 66% in the funds provided for the SORs. In 2020 it will be 1 billion 745 thousand. zł. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u66	Thank you, Minister. After an additional question, you'll have three minutes to answer, and you'll tell me what you'd like. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister was just answering what he wanted, unfortunately, but we would ask for an answer, Minister, to the questions that my esteemed colleague asked. I'm gonna go over it one more time. Well, the Minister has just confirmed that this regulation has imposed additional duties on the SORs in terms of staff and equipment. Therefore, can this lead to a trend towards closure of hospital emergency services? Is it possible in the ministry's assessment to close them in the near future, or are there such signals? Secondly, does the Ministry see, or rather, what is the idea of this lack of medical staff and the underfinancing of the SORs? Are there any actions being taken? Because it has very adverse effects on patients. I will return to the president's opinion that the terms (the bell) at the SORs are indecent. And the question is, did the President's Office contact us on this matter, or did the Ministry take any action to determine what the President, who said these conditions were obscene, meant and what should be improved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u68	Thank you, sir. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u69	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't have time to answer that. It was, among other things. Opole. I was personally in Opole, I met with all the heads of Opole hospitals, with the SOR directors, with the voivode, with the marshal. There was a question of closing the SORs, because indeed in Opole as a result of this regulation, which appeared on 1 July last year, the wording: immediate access was misinterpreted. They were interpreted in such a way that access to endoscopy in the SOR, because it was an endoscopy, should be here and now. According to our interpretation, this can be done with the use of its own hospital unit or on the basis of external services, provided that 24/7 and immediate access is provided. So an endoscopyist de facto doesn't have to be physically in a hospital. The same applies to telemedicine, where access to computer tomography is required, but the doctor's description of the specialist can be done in telemedicine mode and can be passed on, i.e. in fact, the doctor of the radiologist does not need to be present in the hospital physically. I think that these matters have been clarified and the ghost that appeared in Opole, the closure of the hospital emergency department and its conversion into an emergency room, i.e. de facto restrictions on access to it to patients in emergency situations, because hospital emergency services, I always stress, are dedicated to patients at risk of life, has been dismissed, is now extended the period of operation of this department until the end of June. We also have signals that the rest of the hospitals are gonna relieve this rescue unit at work, so I think everything in Opole is on its way so that this rescue unit can continue to function. I've already told you, ladies and gentlemen, about funding, because we know that funding hospital emergency services is very important. Next year, funding will increase by 128 million, i.e. 15% compared to last year. Finance is very important, but I think one of the most important things is that patients don't just go to hospital emergency services. We are launching an information campaign so that the patient knows that he has a choice not only from the hospital emergency department, but also from night and Christmas medical assistance, the family doctor. It is run in the NFZ infoline, thanks to which we can get information where we have the closest and fastest access to help with a given disease unit (the Bell), a given disease. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Members. I cordially welcome Members Jan Warrzecha, Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Fryderyk Kapinos and Maria Kurowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, who are going to ask a question about the "Programme for the Development of Retention for the years 2021-2027. This question will be answered by a representative of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation undersecretary of state in this Ministry of Minister Anna Moscow. I would kindly ask Mr Jan Warzech to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Our country is at risk of water scarcity through climate change. We are on the penultimate place in Europe in terms of water resources according to the indicator of the amount of water flowing from a given country per capita. In Europe it is on average almost three times the size of Poland and is 4500 m3. Minister! At what stage are preparatory work currently underway? When will the first administrative decision be issued, environmental decision? Are measures being taken by the investor to create conditions for the conflict-free resettlement of residents? Have the funds been secured for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u72	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for that question. There could be much more and more to be said on this subject than the time limit is foreseen, but it can and in a nutshell. I'll try to fit in time. Indeed, it is true that in Poland we have a small amount of water per capita, and that is the bad news. However, there is also good news in all of this - we still have untapped potential in terms of retention, i.e. water retention, which we have. And that is actually the main problem, much more important than the amount of water, because with the water resources we have, if we manage them well, we are able to live well. Actually, as far as the retention capacity we're using is 6.5%. the volume of the average annual river drain, this high retention. We can hold this percentage and increase it to 15%. average annual outflow mainly through large operations, large investments. And that's what the "Programme to combat water scarcity" (retention development programme) is for. These are the assumptions for the moment, and we will then move on to the development of a detailed programme. However, we are already carrying out actions and specific programmes related to retention. These are various investments related to water resources in Poland, mostly carried out by the Polish Waters. I think that one of the most important investments this year is water grades: Sierzewo, when it comes to the Vistula - this investment is already started - as far as Odra is concerned, we have a project of two water degrees, Lubież and Ścinawa. Among these large investments there is also the implementation of the project Kąta - Myscow, to which I will go later, the Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery, Niepołomice, the reconstruction of the Zemborzycki reservoir, various investments related to the reconstruction of jazz and mucus and other water facilities. As far as this investment is concerned, there are 94 investments in the programme for a total amount of around 10 billion. In addition, we still have 67 local proposals, which are in the process of consulting, smaller investments, mainly medium-sized retention tanks. It's all connected to a program of revitalization of rivers and wetlands ecosystems. We conducted such a good pilot program from WWF to revitalize Biała Tarnowska. We also want to continue this direction of regeneration. At the same time the creation of retention in forest areas, wooded areas, wooded areas, soil retention, restoration of breeding ponds. And all those activities that the Ministry of Agriculture is doing under the Rural Development Programme. A program was launched to build small tanks and wells. For our part, it is a programme without a water decision, for a water application which facilitates the implementation of this micro- and small retention in rural areas. As regards the sources of funding for this programme, some of these investments already have security in government funds, in the funds of the World Bank loan or the OP operational programme, and in the next perspective we will consistently include these investments in different sources of funding. An extremely important investment on the map of this program is the Kąty-Myscow reservoir, actually promised for years and discussed without implementation. Here's another good news. This tank is a multifunctional tank, because it is also a retention tank, and floodproof, and anti-drying, extremely important, approx. 20 local units are in direct range, we can imagine how many inhabitants there are in this area, a capacity of 65 million m3.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u74	Thank you, Minister. So he's going the right way, in one word. Mrs Maria Kurowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u75	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! I was delighted to hear this information from the Minister that everything was going in the right direction, because I myself once experienced it, I know what drought is and what a flood is when I was mayor of the town of Jasła, who suffers most from the lack of this reservoir when it comes to southern Poland. In 2007, there was a great drought, water was running out of water in Jasel's city, and there was just despair because of where to get water. However, in 2010 we survived the flood of the millennium and also had to participate in this human drama. So, Minister, I ask you very much to watch over this investment so that this investment actually develops. Not only do the inhabitants of Jasła, Dębica, Mielec expect this, because they are all at the same river and are getting water to drink (the bell) from this river, but also the inhabitants who have been waiting for 100 years... Ladies and gentlemen, there have been projects for 100 years. My friends told me 50 years ago. For 100 years there have been projects for the construction of this tank, i.e. the Independent already knew how this tank was needed, and meanwhile so much time has passed. I think the government of the United Right will do what we've been waiting 100 years for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u76	Thank you, Member. Does the Minister want to feel a little more?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u77	I would like to say that I thank you for this vote of support, and we promise to cooperate with the Member, but also with the other people, because those interested in this project are not lacking, full cooperation and implementation in accordance with the timetable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u78	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Members Andrzej Kryj and Teresa Wargock of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice want to ask a question about the implementation by local governments of the provisions of the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. A representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Secretary of State, Mr Andrzej Bittel, will answer. Mr Andrzej Kryj, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u79	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, Dear Minister, The Act of 16 May 2019 on the Development Fund for public bus services was adopted with great hope by many millions of Poles. Thanks to the new solutions, bus connections are restored to small towns, which counters communication exclusion. The reconstruction of closed connections takes place in cooperation with municipal, district and voivodship authorities. However, from some regions of Poland there is information that local authorities do not show interest in restoring bus connections. On the one hand, we are dealing with a situation where the voivodship's recruitments often end in the fact that tens of millions of zlotys remain unused, and the local authorities explain that in the current legal situation they are unable to comply with the statutory provisions, while on the other hand we are dealing with the opinions of carriers who show the willingness to start such lines and indicate the existence of needs in this regard. We are dealing with a strange situation here, because these measures, which are secured - last year it was PLN 300 million, this year it is PLN 800 million - would really help to recreate many such lines. So I have a question: Why is this the case and how do local governments implement the provisions of the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u80	Thank you, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As the Member rightly pointed out, the Act of 16 May on the Development Fund for public service bus services, which entered into force on 18 July 2019, is the basis or one of the elements of the anti-communication exclusion. This law and its provisions have created a legal basis and provided funding for the support of local authorities for the organisation of public service bus services across the country. The funds were allocated to voivodships for subsidies to deficit communication lines, whose functioning is due to social needs. Local self-government units, those levels mentioned by you as organisers of public collective transport, are responsible for starting communication connections in areas of their local characteristics, taking into account the interests of passengers, in other words, their residents. The Fund funds support local authorities in the organisation of bus transport, and subsidies provide incentives to take action in this area. Passengers will benefit from an increase in the transport offer to start bus connections, with the initiative of the public transport organisation in the area being solely on the local government's side. Passengers expect an increase in the availability of bus transport, which allows greater social mobility, which activates the excluded regions. The anti-communication exclusion must also be seen as an investment in economic development. The role of local authorities is to properly identify the real transport needs of local communities and to organise communication networks that will contribute to the economic and social development of areas remaining in their local characteristics. Responsible action on the part of local authorities while making rational use of the funds of the bus development fund is in our common interest and the funds provided by the government give a better chance than before to offer transport. He asked about the issues of recruitment, about the issues of implementation. As a result of this last recruitment, for 2020, the payment will be covered by 1741 communication lines, in the first call there were about 1300, after the second one there was a total of 1500, now it is, as you can see, a little more. This is progress, although we believe that progress from the level of the Ministry of Infrastructure could be more visible, more intense, but it is. Local government officials are gradually learning to do so. As a result of these subsidies and recruitments, the total number of vehicles per km on the transport lines covered by the applications amounts to over 60.5 million in km and the amount of aid requested by the organisers is PLN 59.5 million. In 2020, the fund's operations will be carried out in 964 municipalities. It is possible to assume such a statistical size that there are slightly more than 14 million inhabitants who will be affected by these newly created communication lines. I have here a whole table with distribution into different voivodships, what it looks like in an aggregated way. And let me say this: when it comes to the largest number of communication lines covered by the surcharge, here we have the first place ex aequo mazowieckie and podkarpackie, where there are 251 communication lines, the third place is taken by Wielkopolska - 186, and when it comes to the lowest number of communication lines covered by the charge, we have Warmia and Mazury - 25, Zachodniopomorskie - 37, lubuskie - 58. This, of course, translates into the number of cars per kilometre. Nearly 11 million in km will be co-financed in Podkarpackie voivodship, nearly 8 million in Pomorskie voivodship and 6300 thousand. with a light hill in the Silesian Voivodeship. Of course, I will provide this information, this table in writing, to be examined so that you can see it in more detail. It is worth noting that a public-service bus fund is a long-term project - and so must be treated - aimed at systematically launching regular bus lines and encouraging the creation of a common and functional communication network that responds to current social needs in cooperation with and with the main role of local government (The Bell) in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u82	Minister, thank you. Mrs Teresa Wargock is asking a supplementary question. And you wait here. It'll be better. I'd love to. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u83	Minister! I think that this programme for the reconstruction of local bus connections is one of many, but it is this programme that requires very good cooperation between local authorities and the government, because we can basically say that the government has developed a programme, established rules, allocated funds, and that the implementation of this programme in terms of implementation and bringing concrete social benefits lies on the part of local authorities. Minister! I think that with regard to this second recruitment, which is already ongoing, in principle is resolved, the rates of involvement of local governments, even on the part of the involvement of financial resources, are still not very high. Will we spend 800 million on this programme after 2019, as provided in the Fund? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would the Minister refer to the possible demands of local governments, which, if you are talking and you are talking, raise some reservations? Maybe two sentences about the other side's opinion. And is there any change that might be planned in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u84	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u85	Of course, those self-governments who are involved in the bus fund project should be very grateful because they have entered this program with the idea that they want to serve their local community. The second huge thanks are certainly due to the voivodships and workers under the voivodship for implementing this programme at an extraordinarily rapid rate, in a very short time. Because there were two rounds last year, and now there's a third one, so we have three rounds in total. Of course, there is a discussion on the conditions of the programme and local government would not be themselves if they did not say that the surcharge is too low in their opinion, although these examples that we already have on the table today, from various voivodships all over Poland, from various municipalities of different character: urban-rural, rural or district, indicate that it is possible to operate within this fund and those rules that are currently in force. Of course, this does not preclude the fact that, as part of the evaluation of the programme - because we must, of course, look at this in a critical way, we cannot treat our child as the smartest one in the world - we will carry out analyses and look for solutions that will even more counteract communication exclusion, and this does not always have to be in the orbit of the specific expectations of local authorities, e.g. not 1 zloty, but 5 zloty, or maybe we should wait for some additional solutions... It may be, but it doesn't have to be. From this point on, however, I would encourage local government officials to analyse their needs and treat the creation of communication lines as an investment in the development of their small homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u86	Thank you very much. Thank you, Members. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Andrzej Gawron, Anna April and Jerzy Paul from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice want to ask a question on the implementation of the Cyber.mil.pl programme Minister for National Defence. Minister Skurkiewicz, with whom we always differ in our views, will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, but we do so miraculously. Hello, Minister. You're welcome, my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Due to the real threats and challenges related to ICT security, the Polish Ministry of National Defence implements the Cyber.mil.pl program. This is certainly a necessary programme, whose implementation in a coherent and holistic manner covers the area of IT security, which is of strategic importance in the era of universal computerisation and real threats of the present time. The programme focuses on the development of appropriate infrastructure and research, including the acquisition of young, talented IT specialists, who, to be honest, will be responsible for the development of this programme in the future. I would like to ask the Minister if the military also has a specific offer for secondary schools. Because from the perspective of my territory, I see that a pilot program is being carried out, the informational green garrisons, which work very well with us, is the cooperation of the school team No. 1 and the high school im. Mickiewicz with a commando military unit. I also know that this program operates on a national scale. My question concerns the overall evaluation of this programme, and I would like the Minister to point out how many schools are involved in this programme, whether this programme will possibly continue, or whether it will be changed somehow. However, it is important that these young people at the initial stage, those who are interested in computer science, who have a patriotic approach to defending our country, gain them and to include them in the country's electronic defence capabilities. I would ask you to analyze this program of informational green garrisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u88	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. How about some water for the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question, because today, I will remind you, cybersecurity is one of the priorities of the Minister of National Defence, it is an increasingly important area of functioning of modern states, modern societies, in connection with what is at stake. This is an area that absolutely needs to be and is being developed. Ladies and gentlemen! From 5 February 2019 The Ministry of National Defence is implementing a comprehensive Cyber.mil program. pl, whose aim is to increase the security of the state and citizens in cyberspace. The programme is based on four strategic pillars. One of them is a multi-level educational offer in the field of comprehensive IT and cybersecurity. And a few words about those actions that have been taken. Increased admission limits for military studies at the Military Technical Academy, as well as at the Naval Academy in Information Security. These include electronics, telecommunications, computer science, cryptology, cybersecurity, security information systems. In 2020, both universities will leave a total of 156 graduates. I'm talking about officers who will receive officers' patents. They are students who have already started their education in 2015. This is how I would like to refer to the limit that he was in 2015 at these universities. Ladies and gentlemen! Every year we increase the number of students taking these courses and in 2025 this number of graduates will increase - note - to 485, so this is the increase It's almost 300%. Few of this, engineering studies for computer science are being created at the Academy of the Land Forces, which will start in the academic year 2020/2021 with a minimum of 30 people. For the next five years, the walls of military universities will leave nearly 2,000 officers in specialties related to the widely understood cybersecurity. Ladies and gentlemen! We are addressing our offer, as Mr Gawron noted, also to secondary school pupils. At the Military Technical Academy in the school year 2019/2020 we have established the Military General Education High School in which 51 students are currently educated in two classes. Graduates of this school will be prepared to undertake higher education in fields such as IT, cryptology and cybersecurity. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that by 2025, the Ministry of National Defence is to have at its disposal about 2000 lieutenants, cyber graduates and cryptology. As part of the merger of Petty Officers' corpses, computer science and communication schools based in Zegrze and Toruń are formed. The Military Technical Academy, together with foreign partners, also launched postgraduate studies of the MBA type in the field of cybersecurity management. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about the "Informational green garrisons" programme, which you have been asking about in particular. Yes, in fact, this programme has been implemented since 2017. It is a pilot programme that is being implemented today. 12 schools from almost all of Poland participate in this project. It is the first high school in Sandomierz, School General Education Complex in Szydłowce, School General Education Complex in Góra, School No.1 in Lublin, School III in Grudziądz, School Electronics in Przemysl, School General Education in Przemysl, Secondary School Complex in Białogard, School General Education Complex in Orzysz, School Professional Complex in Pisz, School Complex in Gołdapi, School Construction Complex in Braniewo. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2020, i.e. at the end of August this year, 10 of these educational institutions end their commitment to the green garrison project, two more in 2021. This year, after the completion of the programme in these 10 institutions, we will evaluate the implementation of this programme so as to have full knowledge of how this programme was implemented. The program was really successful. In the Ministry of National Defence, we have allocated 1,200 thousand. PLN for the implementation of this programme, but we want to move on, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are creating and by the end of January we will present details of the new Cyber programme. miles with class. It will be a programme that will also be addressed to secondary schools. This program will be implemented in all 16 voivodships. We want to have one such school selected by the Ministry of National Defence in every voivodship. We also have guaranteed financial resources, substantial funding for the implementation of this programme. It's gonna be 5760,000, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. on average for one school it will amount to 360 thousand. zł.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Anna April, I would like to ask you for an additional question. The Minister stay, it'll be more comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in the first part of your reply, you have included extensive information on training in this area at military dorms. I'd like to ask you about high school, but civilian. In April Ub. r. during e.g. Academic world championship in team programming students of the University of Wrocław won one of the gold medals and the title of European masters in programming of course. I would like to ask you how the Ministry plans to recruit IT specialists for cyber defense from civil universities. How are you e.g. Are you directing the offer to the people who serve (the bell) in the Territorial Defence Forces? Is there also a focus on the use of people who have some preparation in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u92	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much for this question, Madam President, because we are in fact dealing with the military area, but we also encourage students who are studying civil studies today to be more involved in issues of cyber security and in greater cooperation with the Polish military and the Ministry of National Defence. At the moment, in the Republic of Poland already tens of thousands of young people learn first in uniform classes, because I must mention this too. They're being considered here, too. The program of certified uniform classes is developing very well. Very often, these young uniformed people go to higher education, not only military, but also civilian. Today, in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, we are implementing a programme of military training for volunteers - and this is an important thing - Mon. Academic Legion. This program is supplemented by a module: cybersecurity. Any interested student of the public university, but also a private student with Polish citizenship, can join the project. This programme consists of a theoretical part, which includes, inter alia, military knowledge subjects, as well as the practical part, take place 3-week basic modules conducted in the form of military training. This is field training, often under ground conditions, which also increases its attractiveness for students, for young people. 61 universities joined the pilot programme under the academic league, which was the 2018 edition. In 2019 new universities joined, I will repeat again, and state and private universities. At the moment, 64 universities are participating in this project and it will continue to be developed. At the Ministry of National Defence, we are creating a special office today, which will be complementary to issues related to education - education within the framework of not only the academic legion, but also uniform classes. We will soon inform the public about how this will all be resolved. With regard to this cyber component in the Territorial Defence Forces, we today, ladies and gentlemen, offer the opportunity to serve as part of the territorial military service to all those who wish to join (the bell) the Territorial Defence Army, and are paraded in this area of IT, the cyber area - so that they can pursue themselves professionally in the civilian field, but also so that they can give their competence to their country as part of the territorial military service, within the Territorial Defence Army. This cyber component is very beneficial, it is also successfully developed in the Territorial Defence Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u94	Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner, thank you, thank you to the Minister. It was nice tonight, Minister. As usual. It's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish the questions on current issues. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm, information on the rise in energy prices and the energy policy of the State, which was presented by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak. I read all this information not only for you, but also for myself, so as not to get lost in the confusion of the rules. Mr President, the speaker is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's topic is really about the political trap of Polish energy. Coal is presented by the government as a Polish state right, although it is increasingly from Russia. We are increasing the cost of such a policy. Coal energy is more expensive because of saving the planet's climate and rising prices of CO2 emission allowances. Polish energy is out of date: two hundred withdrawn transmission networks, which are too flexible for distributed energy. The lack of directional government decisions leads to the loss of energy companies. Ongoing dilemmas: Is Ostrołęka coal or gas? Investments in RES to withdraw from their implementation after contracts have been concluded, resulting in lost and very costly judicial proceedings. Political factors, manual control of the company's personnel, directing the paid money to save the mining industry. All of this is causing a huge fall in the value of energy companies. This energy trap leads to the government's decision-making wedge. The project "Polish energy policy" was created until 2040, but it is a political orphan who was not adopted in the previous term. This caused, for example, that. The Minister of Energy wanted to build a discovery of Oscousłowo or Złoczew, and the Prime Minister did not light a green light for this task. Today, in light of the new transformation challenges, the energy policy proposal already needs far-reaching changes. Poland's power is uncompetitive as a result of this decision-making powerlessness. Electricity prices for companies over the last 3 years have been on average 20% higher than prices in Germany, 23% higher than in Germany. - in the Czech Republic, 18% - in Slovakia. Hence the increasing import of energy, exceeding export. For households, thanks to the URE approving the justified costs, we have energy prices lower than our neighbours, but after 2021. Poland will be obliged to release prices. In order not to be shocking to households, energy production must be cheaper thanks to a competitive market, and public aid should be based not on freezing prices but on putting on cheaper energy. The price signals from the market are unambiguous. As far as RES auctions are concerned, e.g. The price of wind energy is below 200 PLN per MWh and the coal price reaches 300 PLN. And the price of coal energy will rise. Poland is thus becoming an increasingly less competitive energy museum of Europe. The Market Energy Secure is the Freight Energy Exchange, but the signals about market manipulation in terms of energy prices on the wholesale market in 2018 are worrying. At the time, the president of URE had filed a notice to the prosecutor's office. This raises the question of whether the price increase and their freezing by law in 2018 were caused only by an increase in the prices of allowances and mining costs. In 2020, the President of URE agreed to increase the energy prices for households by 11 At the same time, the trading companies increased the commercial charge strongly and from October to the bill will reach PLN 10 per month in terms of the cost of the capacity charge. The other recipients, companies or local authorities, will have to deal with increases in the order of 30%. and we all - with rising inflation to 4%. Hence, public support for the Fair Energy Transformation Programme must definitely be obtained, indicating 2050 as the year of the zero-emission economy. This is what our climate and our health require, and our wallets. In order to do this, the government simply needs to join the programme of fair energy transformation, and unfortunately it does not. To reach for money, EUR 100 billion, we must definitely say: yes, we want to take this money and we want to use it for energy transformation. We need to get out of this energy trap, to start with a few decisive moves. For mining regions, e.g. Greater Eastern Poland, prepare a government compensation program. Unlock wind energy on land, leaving power to local governments. Small and medium-sized enterprises should be able to produce energy for their own needs and a facilitated procedure for the sale and purchase of energy in the direct formula for the final consumer. Finally, consideration needs to be given to the introduction of additional real-time tariffs that would enable (the Bell) flexible supply and demand management under changing conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u96	Thank you, sir. Mr President, if I had to ask this question, I would not have been able to do it better. And now we will listen to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Tadeusz Skobl. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this request from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, because this gives the opportunity to inform the High House and citizens about the programme against the rise in electricity prices that we managed to implement and implement in 2019 and the outline of the mechanism for 2020 that we are currently working on. For this reason, I will divide my statement into three parts. The first will concern the price stabilisation mechanism in force in 2019. The second will cover compensation plans for price increases in 2020. And the third will concern Poland's energy policy, which we have also heard about in the proposal. Mechanism of 2019. I would like to remind you that in the 3rd and 4th quarter of 2018, information was published in the media about offers for the sale of electricity for 2019 with an increase of 30%. There was also information about 68% increases. As a result of the implementation of the Law of 28 December 2018, difficult law, it should be made clear, since it covered 17.5 million electricity consumers, it was possible to achieve the following effects: in 2019 tariff recipients, i.e. households, did not feel, did not notice an increase on any account, as the Act would act on these entities as from 1 January 2019. Self-governments, small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, hospitals, associations, individual price recipients did not pay higher prices than in 2018. Their contracts were adjusted accordingly in the third quarter of 2019, which is important, with an adjustment from 1 January 2019. Where electricity prices could not be frozen in the second half of 2019 due to the findings with the European Commission, we proposed aid under the de minimis aid allowed. This is about medium-sized and large enterprises. In 2019 no final customer of electricity remained without State aid. The effect of our actions can be seen from data published by the European Commission on the evolution of electricity prices between 2019 and 2018, which I will now quote. Increase in individual customers' accounts above 10% it has occurred in six countries of the European Union. Increase in accounts above 5% - in the 13 countries of the European Union. The total energy costs for households increased in the European Union in 2019 compared to 2018, in more than 20 countries, and in Poland there was an 8% decrease. This gives us some of the lowest prices in the European Union. This is not only due to the government of the Republic of Poland, but also to the entire parliament, which met at a dedicated meeting on 28 December 2018. Over 95% voted in favour of the Act Members voting and only three Members voted against the bill. Once again, a heartfelt thank you to Parliament. You often ask whether the payments to trading companies by the Price Difference Payment Fund are properly implemented. I would like to inform you that by yesterday, until 9 January, the fund approved 928 applications for a total amount of over PLN 4 billion. Trading firms fulfilling the obligation to stabilise electricity prices may apply until the end of January 2020 and medium-sized and large enterprises may apply for de minimis aid until the end of June 2020. It is worth pointing out here the success of de minimis aid for medium-sized and large enterprises. I remember it in June. On the occasion of the amendment, Members of the opposition doubted that medium-sized and large enterprises would receive support in the second half of last year. Those entities may submit appropriate applications from October 2019. So far 275 applications have been approved for a total amount of over PLN 7 million, giving an average amount of around 26 thousand. per entity - these are the data on payments only from the third quarter of the previous year - and since January entities may submit applications for the fourth quarter of 2019, so the average amount for the second half of the year per entity will probably exceed the level of 50 000. zł. Mechanism for 2020. When analysing possible actions in 2020, the situation in which they were customers in the second half of 2018, in 2019 and in which they are now should be taken into account. In 2018, the price situation on the electricity exchange, where prices rose sharply, was destabilized. This was mainly the result of an increase in CO2 allowances prices. Now let's look at the prices on the stock market in 2020 and compare them with the contract prices for 2019. It can be concluded that despite persistently high CO2 prices. The Ministry of State Assets is currently working on a bill introducing a compensation mechanism for rising electricity prices in 2020. At the turn of 2019 and 2020 conceptual work was completed and legislative work is now being finalised. The draft law is currently subject to an intra-ministerial consultation. The mechanism for 2020 was designed to meet the following assumptions: it made promises to compensate for the increase in electricity prices for households, covered both consumers using the URE tariff and non-tariff tariffs on the free market, excluding those most prosperous in the country, characterized by simplicity and did not introduce mathematical-calculation barriers for end-users with whom they might not be able to cope and comply with European Union law. I have the energy policy of Poland left. I see I have 23, 24 seconds... And that's not gonna work, but you're gonna have time later. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: Good. In that case, do we leave the energy policy for now or do we start? It's time we figured it out. In the next answer, you'll have time for that. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: Good. I will return to Poland's energy policy on the occasion of questions and discuss the most important information (The Bell) in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. The questions were asked by MEPs Ewa Malik, Krzysztof Gadowski, Marek Dyduch, Barbara Dziuk, Aleksander Mishalski, Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Urszula Zielińska, Anna Kwiecień, Gabriela Lenartowicz, Marek Polak, Ewa Kołodziej, Michał Szczerba, Cezary Grabarczyk, Paulina Hennig-Kloska and Paweł Pontyliusz. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak? The club was supposed to report me, but apparently he forgot. Sloppy club just. Why don't you tell them to get to work, and you'll get on with it. Is there anyone else? There you go. Anyone else? No. Okay, thank you. In that case, I'm closing the list of speakers. We have 17 Members who have been asked questions, and I am setting a 2-minute limit. I invite Mrs Ewa Malik from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I'm gonna start with a topic that goes around here, and it's there. Of course, what I mean is that lately, there is now an opinion that has no basis in fact, and they also do so for political purposes, either in political circles or in strict terms. Party that Poland is too much based its energy security on fossil fuels, which is intended to generate significant CO2 emissions. But I have such a kind request to the Member, very kind. It's about the subject. Let's try not to be offended. We love each other, respect each other, we're all in the Polish Sejm. But I do not insult the Member in any way. I do not insult the Member. You're welcome. Curiosity words like that... And let's try, today is Friday, with a smile on your mouth. But it doesn't offend you. But it's not an insult, Mr. Marshal. Okay, here you go. The point is that you proved that China and India are generating less pollution and CO2.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to stop for a moment at that destabilization you were talking about, the price of energy on the Goods Exchange. In December 2018, as you mentioned, all Poles were told that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office initiated an investigation into significant price increases, from September 2018 to December, of certain instruments listed on the Energy Goods Exchange. As a result of this procedure, of course, a request was made to the prosecutor's office. Meanwhile, in the Seym, on December 28, this year, a bill appeared, very weak, corrected several times later, which messed up a little with entrepreneurs, those who also sold this energy. Of course, the prosecution leaned on this proposal in January 2019 and the case seemed to have stopped. Today you say that, indeed, I do not know whether you are actually putting the thesis - this rise in energy prices was caused by RES factors, i.e. not so much with RES, but with emissions, as well as rising fuel prices, raw materials. However, haven't energy prices also resulted in non-market factors, or criminal action? I would like to ask you clearly: do we know the results of this procedure yet? Has the prosecutor's office already made any accusations against those who belong to the State Treasury, or are they being prosecuted? What, if any, were these measures which had just appeared on the market as a result of such unlawful practices passed on? And when will this investigation be completed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you analyze this situation as well? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We have not yet heard here information about the government's investment plans in the area of energy. I hope - I'm going to ask you questions - that we're going to hear it right now, because it's a matter of the future. I have these questions: Do we import energy? What's the size of that? Why import - if we import? Is it because our resources are too small, or is it just normal on the European market that some energy is bought? That's one thing. Secondly, as far as investment is concerned, Germany is fighting very hard at the moment, it is positive, of course, to gain energy from the heat of the Earth. Today it is very expensive energy, but in the future it will be natural energy. It's about heat pumps, but it's not home pumps, it's about industrial ones. These are huge expenditures, the Germans take it seriously, in every land there is a department that is currently dealing with thermal energy. I'm assuming they're gonna be okay someday because they're very systematic. Are we going to invest in this form of renewable energy? And the third element - the question about the nuclear power plant. Are we really going to do this or are we going to do this or are we going to go away from this energy? This is important information also in the context of our investment plans. I wanted to ask you one more thing: are these new power blocks in Opole and in Jaworzno are the renovated blocks that were, or are they built new blocks within the existing power plants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u105	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In the previous item of the Sejm's proceedings in the so-called. our colleague and I have been asking questions on current issues about a very important social element of life, namely the price of waste exports, waste segregation. Local government officials in various corporations say that energy prices are also one of the factors behind the increase in export costs. So the question is, can local government officials in 2020 count, at least in this respect, on any compensation for rising energy prices?? Speaking of energy price increases: What makes it clear that different distributors make different proposals and regulators determine? I mean above all PGE, which supports, among others. voivodship lubelskie - 19,5%. They suggested the highest price increases on the market. And, of course, for the regulatory reasons we discussed earlier, you couldn't put forward the state's energy policy because it seems to be here. maybe a more important element. I would ask, if I may, for this material in the written formula, to send this material if you have my seym address. It is widely known, like any other Member, because this is the clou, the starting point for our further conversation. Because the fact that we import energy, it is known, but in Poland there are resources, energy sources and it is worth using, seems to sell, not import. I'd like to ask you these things. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for giving the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u106	Thank you for your kind question. Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. This is no longer the first question, Madam President, today. Busy day. Busy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The energy policy currently adopted by the Government for Law and Justice is primarily focused on energy security and energy cogeneration. Therefore, I have a question for you in the field of renewable energy, which is also, I would like to say, one of the main directions of development in Poland. This renewable energy must be evolutionary with the guarantee of reserve sources dependent on weather conditions. Louder, louder. Gas is one of those less-carbon raw materials that will ensure an evolutionary transformation. At the same time, it is mainly imported fuel. Will the gas investments in place cover the increasing demand for gas in electricity and heating? What is the energy dependence of Poland? And I also have a second question for the Minister. It is related to the price of energy, because these issues are very strongly addressed during various discussions, debates with experts. I have a question about individual customers for whom energy prices are not approved by the President of the URE. For example, those exercising the right to change the seller and market prices will be subject to a compensation mechanism for increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that energy prices will rise in Poland was known long before you came to power and the government of the Platform and PSL wanted Poland to prepare for this fact by investing, among others. into wind energy, which you effectively plowed with one law. Unfortunately, you set a trap for Poles with your outdated coal policy in 50 years or more. Energy prices on the wholesale market in Poland are the highest among industrialised neighbouring countries and from the beginning so-called. good changes in these energy prices in Poland are on average 20% higher than in Germany and for production companies the price of energy is one of the key operating costs. The increase in energy prices by several dozen percent, which may soon affect us, will result in a shift of this cost either to consumers or a reduction in production and consequently the collapse of the economy. According to forecasts, this increase may be between 20% and 40%. In one of the interviews, Minister Emilewicz stated: the average individual consumer will accept a significant increase with dissatisfaction, but it will not waver its budget, whereas companies such as steel, the usual similar increase will not stand. In 2019 you introduced a price maintenance mechanism, but for how long this problem can be swept under the carpet. You're not gonna get away with this, and sooner or later, we're all gonna have to eat this frog, and in the end, citizens are gonna pay for it. Besides, in Krakow we already pay for this, especially employees of ArcelorMittal, but also Kraków taxally. To my interpellation in the case of the steelworks, Minister Emilewicz answered directly: The case of stopping production in the ArcelorMittal branch in Krakow reflects the difficult situation of the steel industry in Poland. They contributed to this, among others. increase in the cost of CO2 emission allowances. And why have prices increased? The source of this. And I would like to ask: What is the cost of compensation for rising energy prices for all enterprises in 2019? How does the Minister's rise (The Bell) in energy prices affect the competitiveness of our energy-intensive companies and the economy and economic situation of enterprises? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u110	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Andrzej Shejna from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have this first question for the Minister. Do you know the 11,000 report? scientists, which appeared in the scientific magazine BioScience, which signed 11 thousand. scientists from 153 countries that predict the great suffering of mankind in connection with climate change? These climate change, of course, also relate to energy policy, to natural resources, to increasing the world population. They also refer to renewable energy. I would like to say to the Minister that I do not see any reflection in the government's policy on changes in global policy, in the policy of the European Union, in the new Green Pact for Europe. Does the Minister provide for a correction of government policy? It is not about what the European Union expects, but about what Polish society expects. Do you know that several tens of thousands of people a year die directly or indirectly because of pollution? If you look outside - it's January 10th - the temperature is 7 degrees. Maybe - I am addressing my colleagues here at the Law and Justice Club - but you will find that climate change is already surrounding us and concerns us. And another thing. Minister, as part of energy policy issues: Have you already foreseen in the budget for the coming years, in the government budget - because you will be in charge for the coming years - the financial resources for the penalties that the European Union will impose on Poland for not fulfilling the requirements and obligations arising from the share of renewable energy in the energy mix of Poland? Let me ask you one more thing. Do you think it is better to agree to import cheap, you can say, low-quality coal from Russia, or perhaps it is better, as I propose, to develop renewable energy sources, including windmills that you have destroyed? We're expanding. The point is, we're developing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u112	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stanisław Żuk from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first place, I would like to mention a few figures, and in particular to refer to the gentleman who spoke in front of me. The European Union's contribution to CO2 emissions. Let's not poison each other. Relax, let's not poison, I'll tell you about this poison. My question to the Minister is this. The government adopted a brown coal and coal program a year and a half ago. He's in some way... Both of these programmes should be implemented in the energy policy of the State 2040. I was involved in the opinion of this document. The basic question is: When will the government finally present the draft energy policy of the state? I believe that the one who is, is cut according to the Polish state and ecological needs. And here's the data... Poison. Take it easy. At the moment, the Polish system has a demand of 24 thousand. MW. Heat plants produce 19,000, water - 300, wind power plants - 3,000. MW. This is current information. What's the situation in the whole system? We import 600 MW from Sweden, we import almost 2 000. MW from Germany, we import 500 MW from Lithuania. We export to the Czech Republic and Slovakia (the bell) after 700 MW. The question is: How is it that the balance is almost 2 000? MW day by day is negative for us, and our power plants work at 70 The installed power? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, hello, Marshal Gosiewska. I thank you very much for today's three hours. It's been a pleasure working with you. [[Applause]] We have fantastic envoys and fantastic envoys. Have a nice weekend. Your marshal, the chair is yours. There you go. The chair, Mr. Marshal, the chair. Excuse me, chair. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Thank you, Marshal, as always charming. I invite Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government has declared its support for distributed and prosumer energy. This is very important because, in my opinion, energy will be used in the most rational way, i.e. where there is a demand for this energy, it will be produced. Transmission costs will clearly decrease. Losses in this respect will also be reduced. A large share of distributed energy, prosumer has photovoltaics. Photovoltaics is a kind of energy, where it produces even slightly more energy than it needs to produce, it creates this power, i.e. production of panels, installation, operation and subsequent disposal. For example, Schroeder's report shows that, in the case of wind energy, this balance is negative. Hence my question, Minister. Will my current, which mainly supports photovoltaics, continue to influence the development of these micro-installations, those installations that are where this energy is used? And the second question. Will the government be able to compensate for increases in household electricity prices this year? Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen! 1 January this year The deadline for the government to send two plans, two important strategic plans, to the European Commission: the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030. the short-term strategy, and the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2050, so-called "National Energy and Climate Plan'. the long-term strategy required by the 2018 Union Regulation. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, with regard to short-term strategy. Did the public consultation you carried out between 14 January and 18 February, i.e. for 4 weeks, meet the requirements of the regulation on the quality of the public consultation? Let me quote: a Member State provides a multi-level dialogue in which to actively participate and, attention, to review progress can be made by local authorities, social organisations, etc., etc. Do you believe that you have fulfilled these requirements by summing them up in three sentences in the plan? Second question. Why didn't you take into account the European Union's June recommendations last year to increase our ambition for RES, renewable energy, to 25% for 2030? You've still written down 21.23%. in this final plan. Question: "Why?" Third question. Has the long-term strategy been prepared and transmitted to the European Commission within the required time limit by 1 January 2020? As far as I know. - No, but I'm curious, maybe I didn't find it. One last question about state assets. All Polish energy companies lost around 50% since 2015 its market value, PGE - exactly 50% values, since November, during the hosty (Bingle) on the stock exchange. Question: "Do you know why and do you have a plan to solve this very serious problem for all Polish energy companies?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u119	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have one fundamental question. I am a resident of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, its western part. In this part of the voivodship we have a big problem with the effects of brown coal discoveries in Ościsłów and Tomisławice. Lake Gopło, a major drop in water level, and Lake Ostrowskie, the pearl of that part of the voivodship, Arrivalers, well-known resort, resort, at the moment water dries there, it is an influence, among others. Also brown coal mines. The brown coal mines are located on the Wielkopolska side, in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, and there the municipalities actually benefit from all the benefits associated with the existence of these mines, while the effects are noted in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, especially the negative ones, especially the negative ones, because there are no positive ones here, especially the financial ones. Therefore, I expect answers and information as to whether the government is considering compensation for municipalities - not only those municipalities where brown coal is discovered, but also those municipalities that are on the shore of the depressive funnel. This is a very important issue, especially for agriculture, but also for functioning or tourism, or in general forest areas in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government's energy policy envisages the intensive development of renewables, which already in 2030 are expected to deliver more than 30% of the electricity generated in the country from the so-called. RES. It is intended to be mostly wind turbines on land and sea and photovoltaic sources, i.e. units dependent on current weather conditions. In such a situation, will security of supply be ensured for all consumers in line with their needs? What has been the increase in RES capacity in electricity in recent years compared to European countries? I have one more question, because very often there is a sentence here from the speaker referring to the increase in the price of allowances, CO2 certificates. And I ask you to answer one more question: in 2020, does the government expect to compensate for energy price increases, and at what stage are work on this solution currently being carried out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u122	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition, with further questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the results published by Eurostat, but this is also acknowledged by the Polish government, we no longer have any chance of achieving the target of a 15% share of RES in electricity production in 2020. Except, as long as we're not being punished today, because it's about time after 2030, we're going to have to buy statistical transfers of electricity. Professionals estimate that this could be up to PLN 15 billion in 2020. There's no such amount in the budget. I understand that we, the final consumers of electricity, if not directly, will pay for it indirectly. I would like to know what the government envisages, what resources it will cover and how it will cost us. And the costs are caused by a policy led by the PiS government. Since 2016, the cheapest land and wind energy has been practically blocked. Currently, although no new installations can be created, investors offered energy from large farms for PLN 1 billion, but did not exhaust it because there are no bidders, precisely because there is no investment. This is currently the cheapest energy in the wholesale market. And let me remind you that in Poland we now have the most expensive energy in the wholesale market. Therefore, among others. We import it. This import would have been much bigger if the infrastructure had allowed it. Currently we are breaking a record, more than 10 TWh of energy we bought (The Bell) and thanks to this fortunately a bit lower prices are. What would they be if there were still restrictions in this regard? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u124	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am a member of the Podlaskie voivodship, where we have concentrated the most developed agriculture, dairy industry. The biggest bets are Grajewo, Friday, High Mazowieckie and all farmers are anxious to see what is happening in Ostrołęka. On the one hand, we hear that the planned construction of the plant, block C in Ostrołęka, while on the other hand farmers are wondering how this will affect the widely understood agriculture. Nothing's being invested here right now. At the moment there is no investment in biogas plants, agricultural biogas plants, which should be thought of, because we also have a problem with the use of natural fertilisers. There are periods when farmers can't export it, while the fermentation sludge from the biogas plant can be exported to the field all year round. And we are funded abroad by the Podlaskie voivodship, already in the area of the Mazowieckie voivodship, a huge power plant, a huge block where 280 coal wagons per day will be imported. How does this work to support agriculture, to develop agriculture, to block these precisely agricultural investments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u126	Thank you very much, sir. The next Member in the queue to speak is Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u127	I'm here, Marshal. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we all know, from June 2018 to the end of 2019 electricity prices for households have not changed and have been among the lowest in Europe. Only five countries outnumbered us in this ranking. At the same time, energy prices in European countries have systematically increased, which is the result of climate policy, as well as rising fuel prices. And I think that it can also be in Poland, because we also have to bear the cost of CO2 emission allowances.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u128	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all want to breathe clean air and live as long as possible. We'd all like to pay low electricity bills, too. Therefore, the government must definitely notice the need to invest in RES, including home-based photovoltaic micro-installations. And I'm gonna want to focus on that. It really hurts me that the government doesn't take prosumers seriously. Government policy is very brutal because it is only allowed to invest in home micro-installations up to 10 kW peak, and when using such an installation you cannot earn, the more you pay the energy companies a lot of money. At 10 kW peak it's 25% energy to be given to energy companies, with more than 40% The energy produced must be given back. This is absolutely non-subjective treatment of prosumers, entrepreneurial Poles. In order to be able to talk about cost-effectiveness at all, these installations would have to produce several or dozens of kilowato-hours of peaks. The point is to make it worthwhile for the entrepreneurial Poles. In addition, the investment itself is at a very high cost at the beginning. Today, the government is offering funny, really funny grants at the level of 5,000. zł, and in no way is it worth investing in such installations to enterprising Poles. That is why I have specific questions: When does the government plan to amend the Renewable Energy Act? Of course, I am interested in real financial support for the construction of photovoltaic micro-installations. Will the government finally trust entrepreneurial citizens to be able to build these installations without restrictions on the number of kilows? And is this factor going to be 1:1 to treat prosumer as a partner so that he doesn't have to pay the racket to coal companies? And this will absolutely promote entrepreneurial Poles and above all will cause this (the bell) that they will pay lower electricity bills and will not be ruined by Polish domestic bills. But the point is that Poles have as much money as possible in their wallet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u130	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u131	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, I will quote Mr Sasin's curiaal statement of 18 November 2019 for Radio RMF: There will be no increase in electricity prices for individual customers. We'll do everything we can to make it happen. Actions and words. Words that mean nothing, because the facts are as follows. High Izbo! There are about 15 million households in Poland, which are energy consumers. The tariffs approved by the Energy Regulatory Office benefit almost 10 million. Well? New year - new information from the Energy Regulatory Office. Further increases in electricity prices are becoming a fact. Customers of PGE Trading will pay 11% higher bills. I was talking about 15 million households, but I would like, High Izbo, to pay attention to households that create or co-create seniors. 35% households are just senior holdings. And here the situation is catastrophic, because housing fees, electricity charges represent a significant part of the income of these households. The situation gets worse when we're dealing with seniors living alone. At that time, that income available on the holding is well below the average for the total holding. And the third, the last point that the Social Security Office draws attention to. Ladies and gentlemen, last year there were 227,000. persons who have received pensions lower than the minimum guaranteed by the State. How will this situation - and this is a question to the government - affect households (the bell), which form seniors whose pensions are below minimum guaranteed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Łódź region is an important region on the energy map of Poland. In this region is located Bełchatów and there is a large mining complex, but also electricity generation. We have to say that the electricity will soon be less, because today the Bełchatów satisfy 20% energy needs of the country. It is worth adding that this is the cheapest current produced in Poland. However, the prospects of this energy complex are only 15 years old. In 15 years' time, coal will cease to be mined in Szczerców. And the question of perspective. In this pit and in the power plant, there are now 12 thousand people working directly today. employees. Indirectly, Bełchatów provides employment of 60,000. What about the perspective for Złoczew? Today, this question must be answered by the people of the region, because in 15 years' time this region will face the prospect of losing tens of thousands of jobs. At the beginning of the 1990s, such a collapse in the textile industry caused a huge crisis in the capital city of the Łódź region. What prospect awaits the Belchats? Will Złoczew be implemented? Is there an alternative in the form of nuclear power and will it be located in the Belchat district? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u134	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The lack of energy policy of the country and the lack of energy transformation actually make us pay more and more for emission rights. I understand that the government is basically happy, because that money from the right to issue influences the budget and you can glue it together. But on the other hand, someone pays it, it's actually paid by citizens at the prices of goods bought at the store and at the prices of electricity bills. I would like to ask if anyone in the government really leaned in on the calculation of how the increase in electricity prices will affect the economy. After all, the increase in amounts on accounts is the result not only the higher electricity prices in our homes, homes, but also the increase, and maybe above all the increase in production costs, so the increase in prices of all the goods we buy every day, the increase in prices of clothing, food, footwear, etc. That's the second big problem. With the lack of energy policy of the country and the lack of energy transformation, we buy more and more electricity from abroad. Energy purchased from abroad already covers 6% of our country's demand, and this share will grow, we have no doubt about it. In December, we had a record of the daily demand covered by imports. At the end of the year, foreign power plants covered up to 19% of Poland's power requirements. Where's the sovereignty that the Law and Justice government is fighting for all the time? Because really more dependence on electricity imports means less sovereignty of our country. And second question. We know well that more short-term imports (the bell) can give cheaper electricity, but dependence on imports is actually a greater vulnerability of our country to price increases. What's the government going to do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u136	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I address you as a representative of the government. The Government of Law and Justice is a government that does not care about citizens and consumers when it comes to energy prices. Energy prices are rising because you have enchanted the cult of coal and support the cult of coal in the energy mix of Poland. This results in an increase in coal prices, an increase in CO2 emissions. You don't care about business, because it's business that's responsible for rising energy prices. Entrepreneurs are no longer as competitive as they were before. They're entrepreneurs, with new energy prices, they're gonna have to save money. On who? On workers, on their families, on working conditions, on devices that will be in these companies. Nor do you care about energy-intensive companies, which are supposed to receive various kinds of support, but the symbol of the rule of law and justice in the spirit of reindustrialization of the Polish industry is the extinction of the furnace in Nowa Huta, Mittal. This is what reindustrialization looks like in the PiS edition. You don't care about state energy companies either. After all, when it comes to state-owned energy companies, if you introduce different types of pressure so that they do not increase prices according to the rise in prices on the market, it means that these companies are increasingly weakened, even in investment matters. They can't make investment plans because they don't have the money. Nor do you care about the health of Poles, because smog generates a whole range of different kinds of diseases, as has already been mentioned. You don't know what you want. It's not enough. You are ashamed to show the National Energy and Climate Plan, which you have submitted to the Commission by 2030. And where is that for us? It is only silently sent (the bell) to the European Commission. Therefore, I am addressing you with two questions and requests. One: Show the plan you have submitted to the European Commission. Are you hiding this from the Poles? And the second thing is: Doesn't it affect your imagination that today the auction in RES is PLN 190,230 per megawatt, and in the case of coal auctions it is PLN 250,300? So a little less carbon and this energy may not cost as fast as it costs today. Thank you kindly. Sorry about the extension. [[Applause]] Mr President, do you know the TSUE judgment on smog?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u138	Thank you, sir. And Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, it was time to speak on the stand. Member, I apologize. The honourable Member, too. Thank you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u139	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Tauron raises energy prices by 12%, i.e. that the inhabitants of Bielsko-Biała, Cieszyna, Pszczyna, Żywca and powiats will pay 12% More for electricity. But that is not all, because it will affect the prices of other products, services, i.e. in shops they will pay more for basic articles such as bread, eggs, butter, etc. And the question is, did the Ministry estimate how much more people will pay globally, how much more Poles will pay for their purchases, for their lives as a result of rising energy prices? I would very much ask for that answer. The second question concerns energy trading companies, those smaller companies that function, in principle, have functioned until a certain point in the energy trading market, contributing to greater competitiveness in this market. The turmoil that was caused by an unpredictable government policy in this area has caused the companies to be in trouble. And now the question is whether the government has any plan for these companies to continue to function so that this important element of the energy market, which can be described as creating competitive conditions, as providing electricity at more attractive prices for consumers, remains on the market and these companies do not declare bankruptcy, do not disappear from the market. Because unfortunately, today it seems that the actions of the Government of Law and Justice have led to the withdrawal from the market of those smaller companies that have traded energy, to the collapse of these companies, and this is in the long term a very adverse action for the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u140	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last vote in the discussion. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking of rising electricity prices, we also need to talk about energy poverty. Unfortunately, this threatens an increasing number of people, the inhabitants of our region and Poland, but also the region, because our energy is an energy producing more expensive electricity, unlike our neighbours. We need to respond to energy poverty, especially in heat energy. How many people have trouble getting their apartments warmed up? The question arises as to whether we should not consider energy-related VAT. Is VAT at 23% Are you sure it's optimal? Shouldn't we, especially in heating, if, for example. the use of gas thermal energy is burdened with a 23 percent VAT burden, and it is this energy that causes us to produce less... It's about CO2 emissions. You have to answer the question, what is really going on with this 2050 and why we don't decide as a government to make 2050 a year of effective zero-emission transformation, especially because as a government - it's in energy policy - you talk about nuclear energy, but I think that like everything you do, it's a little fantasy, a little lack of determination and a little lack of consistency. As we can seriously talk about the construction of two blocks of nuclear energy in 2033, for example. Flamanville or Olkiluoto in Finland has been built for several years and this process is still unfinished, because tension between so-called. Generation III+ and forward-looking IV and securing residents is so important? So we also have to answer the question of why public aid really serves, because we spend huge money on helping, for example. conventional energy, and we spend far less money on helping renewable energy. And now there is such tension between these two public aids, because in fact the money spent to secure the convention only serves to preserve the old system - and here we are spending huge money - and we are spending definitely small money on RES, which is going to make our energy much cheaper. Finally, the government must also stand in the truth and say: yes, we must make a fair energy transition and reaching for European money, we must also, as a responsible government, secure the regions of the Bełchatów type Konin with Oscistlov. We must also answer the question whether and how we will compensate these regions for the fact that for many decades they have given energy to Poland, [[Applause]] our country and contributed to development, and now they have to regenerate socially in some way in order to change the paradigm of economic development, but also ecologically, environmentally. These are very important things and the government can't close its eyes and not answer these things. An important story is also whether we are wondering when we are preparing all these aid programs, why we are preparing them properly. We talked about speculation on the Freight Exchange. If right now we're going to consolidate energy, e.g. the famous likely connection between Energa and Orlen, we will build an increasing number of national championships, but these national championships will be on clay legs because they will be secured by this oligarchy-monopolistic position on the Polish market, but they will generate increasing costs, [[Applause]] because a competitive market will not verify it. This will mean that we will really be Europe's energy museum and will be doomed at some point not to energy sovereignty (The Bell), but to energy dependency thanks to cheap currents from Germany, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u142	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Mr Tadeusz Skobl. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were a lot of questions. I don't know how much time we have to answer all of them... Ten minutes. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: ...but I will try to provide information at least on these specific cases. I did not have the opportunity to talk about the issue of Poland's energy policy, because it was already running out. I will only say this: two documents are drawn up - there is an energy policy of Poland until 2040, in short called PEP2040, and there is a national plan for energy and climate. At this point I will refer to the statements made by these people, to the statements made by Mr Pontylius, who pointed out that these documents were not available. Mr President, I kindly invite you to the website of the Ministry of State Assets, the Ministry of Energy. Those two documents are hanging there. Poland's energy policy is after consultation and will be implemented, while as regards the National Energy and Climate Plan, how you follow the press and the media, you know that it was sent to the European Commission in December. So that there are no secrets in this regard. These documents are prepared and properly presented to the authorities to whom they need to be submitted. Politics isn't yet. I'll tell you when the time is right. In December 2019 I personally had the opportunity to attend the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. Earlier, we sent this body a document of Poland's energy policy until 2040 and December we received a positive opinion from this body. So that from the social, consultative side, what had to be done was done. There is still an analysis of the conclusions of the November consultations that were still there, and the document will already be submitted to the government meeting for approval. I think it's worth telling you what it contains. I'm gonna skip some generals, but I'm gonna say some key things. As far as the objective is concerned, energy efficiency, that's 23%. From 21% to 23% is the share of RES. For 21% of the funds are, at 23% It's not here yet. This is the subject of our discussion in the Commission. I'll get back to her at the end. If these measures are, it will be 23%. 30% reduction in CO2 emissions. Currently in the national system 9,2 GW power is installed in RES sources. For the following years, a threefold increase in power is planned for 2030, as 24 GW and 37 GW for 2040, which represents a fourfold increase. So that's the direction. You ask: What direction? This direction is the direction of the RES. Of course, we are aware that RES won't get us everything. Not right away. RES needs sources that would occur when it doesn't blow and it doesn't shine. In addition, energy stores are still expensive enough that they are not competitive to introduce them. There's probably gonna be a time when it's gonna have to be done. Therefore, we consider the transition of some blocks to gas - for example the case of the Lower Oder, as you had the opportunity to read - to be justified. The share of RES will increase from 32% in 2030 to 40% in 2040. RES auction. There were also voices here that the auctions that appeared were not used. I'll tell you what it's been like lately. As a result of the 2018 auction, it is about RES auctions, the creation of 1700 MW of new capacity: 1100 MW from wind power, 550 from photovoltaics. Based on the results of the 2019 auction, a total of 3100 MW of new capacity will be created, of which 2300 MW in wind power and 750 MW in photovoltaics. The rest are biogas, biomass and hydropower plants. I will now throw in one thing here, because wind energy in Poland has slowed down at a certain time. That's what happened. Then it was unlocked a little bit. There is one thing left: the 10H rule. Exactly. It is a question that is still controversial whether it is to be changed or not to be changed. I think that as you read and look at the press, also German-speaking, and the information that comes from there, you see that this problem... The Germans may have gone a little too far, and today they have a problem with this issue. Look at Bavaria. Bavaria has a 10H rule. Today, all other countries also want to get into this system. The current head of Germany in the field of energy economy proposed 1000 m away from buildings. That was his proposal and has not yet been accepted. Right. The problem with windmills, apart from vibrations, vibrations and other things that involve it, is also that, if the propellers are iced, the recoil of ice from these propellers is precisely one of them. It's 10H. And that's where it comes from. These 10H is not the issue that the Poles have invented, it has already been applied in Bavaria. There's another thing about windmills. The windmills are very good when it blows. But you're aware that at a time when it's blowing so hard, and that things like this were still in the previous year, in December... The Germans paid the price of electricity to any country that was neighborly so that they would only take it. I have one more point to address, which is related to it and which also appears here. It's about import. Imports amounted to 17 G, exports - more than 6 G. That's 10 TWh on the plus side of each other's relationships. I'm saying, using general numbers. Ladies and gentlemen! But we are in the European Union today and we have a certain level of systemic exchange in the Union. So far, it's been 30%, and we're committed to making our powers available for up to 70%. We can't abstract from that. If we have the ability to receive this energy, then now, at least within the limit of 30%, we receive this energy. We receive energy if it's cheaper, and it's cheaper first of all when the wind just blows in another place. This energy reaches us and, as it was said from this tribune, it lowers the level of electricity prices in Poland. In fact, it happens that some power blocks, in a situation when it blows hard and this import to Poland must come in, have a very good limitation and come down from 90%, 80% up to almost 65%. Even the ones in Bełchatów, Minister Grabarczyk mentioned this also just now. This is because that energy is even cheaper. The energy to the energy system comes from the cheapest to the most expensive. The one who's the cheapest -- the one who comes in, the one who's the most expensive -- doesn't come in. And even though she's the best and ours, that's the problem. There's a problem that I'm sure is safety on the one hand. As far as security is concerned, I must tell you one thing: security for us means having enough power in a system that would cover the demand for it in Poland. And as of today, including these auctions from the power market, we have this guaranteed for another 15 years. On the one hand, we have security. This is very important to us, Number One. On the other hand, you are all asking for cheap energy. Cheap energy must be part of a compromise between what is being introduced in the field of renewable energy... Renewable energy takes precedence over the entry into the energy system. It's not like someone's cutting off renewable energy. One case could be. If the windmill were to spin in such a way that the frequency would have to travel in the system (the bell) then it is certainly not possible, then this windmill must be disconnected, but these are rare cases. In fact, it is. Your Marshal will allow you to...? And the Belchat, your marshal. There you go. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: If possible, just a few minutes. I know there are many questions, at least on these systemic issues I wanted to answer. So, on the one hand, we're developing this. All the windmills that were allowed to build were launched on land, and the 10H rule was fulfilled, so it went. This is a significant increase, I can quote numbers if you want. Fotovoltaika is, was the program of my current, is the program of my current and from January 13th, he has now had a break from January 20th to 13th, will continue. I personally wanted to show society: see, you have a chance, you can invest in it, enter in, try. They're in. A lot of people came in when it came to my current - the first four months - 21,000. applications, amount of PLN 104 million, 117 MW capacity more. Good. Finally, Polish society was interested in this. Why did we start with that? In addition to photovoltaics, there were suggestions for windmills, perhaps other things. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Photovoltaics, I don't need any building permits. It's getting fast. We wanted the mechanism to be simple. Photovoltaics assembles, presents the bill, returns, relatively quickly passes through the Ministry then energy, today: assets, to the environment to pay out and it works. It worked. I'm sure it needs to be used. We wanted to encourage society to use photovoltaics, but we need to be aware that photovoltaics are 11.5, 12%. with power, if 30, 40% is a good power plant, or even 50, it's only 15, 11, 12, so we have - it's glowing, we don't have - you have to take it. There was a line here, and you asked me why such a racket should be paid by photovoltaics. If there's photovoltaics, you have to pay not 100%. In reception, in relationships 1 to 1, only less. Ladies and gentlemen, the system needs to be compensated... Exactly. ...then the customer doesn't pay for anything, the customer gives away that energy, 20% is sufficient for distribution companies to compensate, to send the loss further to the system. Is that enough? Companies signal that in some cases it is not enough, but we leave it for a detailed analysis, therefore the amount of energy that can be pressed into the system from photovoltaics, windmills, must also be kept in certain lines. What happens if this energy suddenly comes into the system? So what's happening is that instead of the frequency we have today, there's a different frequency in the network. Today everything is based on electronics, so this is throwing out many industrial and our customers, those we have in households, television and others. In view of the above, Polish Power Grids must work on the system in order to reduce differences in frequency. If there's gonna be so many hertzes, it could be 1.5%. more, a little less, but within the right limits. I have another example of that. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point Montenegro and this area were shut down from the system, almost nothing seemed to be happening. Within a month the frequency, and the clocks go to the frequency, the frequency of the network is clocked, there was about 6, 8, 9 minutes late. It seemed at first that it was nothing, but how it would translate into economic activity, for example settlement, it is very important. I am talking about this because it is important to ensure not only safety but also adequate quality of electricity. We need to develop energy, and we should, photovoltaic, wind, but at the same time we need to adapt the energy grids to receive this energy, to transmit further. Only then is the proper effect. And that's what we do. Two things. Once, distribution companies today are obliged to join everyone, analyse the need for changes and the system in this respect so that this energy can be received, sent further. Minister, you're on your way to the end. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: Anyway, once again, I say 100%. renewable energy goes into the system. If anything is disabled, then what is excluded in terms of related, let's say, the need to limit because of the fact that this power is too much. What happens then? See, from an economic point of view, many of you sit in this economy like energy... There are fixed costs to power plants, such as coal, each one of them gas. If there is less production, the unit costs affecting the price are higher. The wheel's closing. PSE's trying to take the block, and he's got a higher price, and he has to run away with that price, back. It's not that simple. Minister, if you'll excuse me, please proceed slowly to the end, because we're running out of time for current information. Welcome to the team meeting. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: You just have to put it all together. Ladies and gentlemen! I will answer a number of questions, while I look at some sensitive, as I recall, here at Minister Grabarczyk... The Bełchatów theme is an important topic for us. We are aware that in 2035, in 2036 deposits in Bełchatów will be exhausted. This is a social problem that we need to solve. There's one decision for today. It is a new mine, 50 km away. It may not be the happiest in economic terms, but it gives us a chance to continue. We are also considering this stage, whether this new mine should not be gassed by coal. This is another way that would be alternative to using. No. Both are not cheap. Anyway, all I'm gonna say is that as an alternative, maybe not an alternative, but a complementary nuclear energy We are also planning one of the locations - we are currently investigating this area - in the Belchatov region, checking whether there is a nuclear power block So he could show up. If geological conditions allow, it will be a very good area for that to happen. Energy collection - the entire energy system is prepared for this. I promise you that we have recorded all your questions, we will pass them on... Minister, when it comes to those that have not been answered, we will ask for written answers. Your marshal, such interesting things you say to the Minister, it rarely happens. I know, that is, High Izbo, first of all I wanted to stress that I extended the Minister's statement at the express request of the opposition. Appreciate it. But we are about to close the time set for this item, so, Minister, please close your speech. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Tadeusz Skobel: Yes, thank you very much for these questions, they are all intentional. We agree that these problems need to be resolved. We will tell you how we want to achieve this in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. [[Speech outside the microphone.]] We are pleased to hear that, sir. Indeed, it is interesting to say so, but it is also interesting to discuss in a good atmosphere. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and some other laws (Print No 65). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The title of the proposed law basically justifies the intention to the end, since the competence to supervise the commercial quality of agri-food products is now divided between the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, i.e. the IJHARS, which includes production, wholesale and border control, and the Retail Trade Inspection. Since these are, for obvious reasons, complementary actions, inspections carry out their activities at the level and on the basis of the same rules, the same law and at the same level - the voivodship, and are asked to take a very obvious step in this process of integrating food inspections in Poland, so to speak. Of course, because under these conditions it is simply the official act of combining assets and it is so simple that it is very easy not so much to deduce and not so much assume as to expect the most obvious positive effects. In all the preparatory work, no one could question the fact that it was obvious from these calculations that the first effect would be to respond significantly more quickly to market failures and thus to withdraw products of poor commercial quality. It is also obvious, to an equal extent, that there is a shorter time for control, that is to say control, and that there is no possibility of conflicting interpretations, which can arise in situations of separate control, even though the work is to analyze and implement the same documents as I mentioned. It is also obvious that there will be a full, cumulative combination of human potential, but also physical and laboratory, which will be involved, i.e. all the resources that are already assets of one inspection. And what is very important - because to a great extent it comes down to this, to certain preventive measures, through the style of action, through the effectiveness of inspections, and yet we assume that this is the main objective - it will be more pressure on these entrepreneurs, on those traders who will try to pursue some of their own particular goals in trade. So it's just about respect for the law. This is information for the High House, which, of course, has one intention: requests for support, support for this law. I would like to strengthen this request and advance the indication that this project has only a positive dimension. It does not focus on overcoming difficulties, some dysfunctions, but solely on managing the complementary assets they have found at this point, in this concept, the exit in a uniform form of one inspection. I ask you to support such a way of thinking and such a concrete provision of the bill, which we believe is completely in line with our intentions, i.e. functional, practical and effective. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. I'd like you to present your position to the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u147	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws, print No 65. The project concerns the introduction of a change by entrusting the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles with tasks relating to the supervision of the commercial quality of agri-food products at all stages of marketing, production, processing and distribution. The argument for this is that the supervision of the commercial quality of agri-food products is exercised by the IJHARS and the Trade Inspection on the basis of the same provisions. The establishment of a single official food control body responsible for the control of commercial quality at all stages of food production, processing and distribution is expected to allow for a faster response to emerging irregularities on the market. The best solution is to entrust supervision of the commercial quality of agri-food products to the audit authority under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for agricultural markets who supervises the performance of the tasks relating to the commercial quality of agri-food products. It is therefore justified that the official food control body supervising its quality in production and in retail trade should be subject to the Minister responsible for agricultural markets. In turn the correct use of materials and articles in contact with food can affect the commercial quality offered with such products and materials of agri-food products, therefore the Trade Inspection verified the application of requirements for materials and products by traders. The proposed focus in a single inspection of responsibility for the control of the commercial quality of agri-food products will allow for a faster response and clarification of the doubts raised by food manufacturers and marketing operators. The action of one inspection will shorten the time needed to complete the audit procedure and eliminate the possible possible possible interpretation of the legislation in connection with the introduction of controls by one or the other control service. This will allow for faster withdrawal from the market of products which do not meet the requirements of the legislation, thereby contributing to a better functioning of businesses and uniform evaluation criteria. High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this law be passed and that it be further processed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u148	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Tomasz Lenz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a project on quality control of agri-food products. At present, the competence to supervise the commercial quality of these products belongs to the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, but this does not apply to retail trade. The Trade Inspection is under control at this stage. The project involves entrusting all tasks relating to the quality control of these articles to one official food control body. We believe that this is a good solution. In the model that is currently being practiced in Poland, supervision of the whole way of food stays, from production to retail sales requires the involvement of two institutions, which differ in the structures of government administration. The Quality of Commerce Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles is under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and the Trade Inspection - the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. This poses a risk of over-reaction to the risks posed to the economic and health interests of consumers. The proposed amendments have legal arguments as supervision in both inspections is carried out on the basis of the same provisions, i.e. the Act of 21 December 2000 on the commercial quality of agri-food products. By entrusting food control powers both in production and in retail, one supervisory authority will make it more efficient and more beneficial for consumers, in other words for all of us, to improve the quality of products available in our country, and to respond more quickly to market failures and thus to accelerate the withdrawal of products not meeting quality standards. It is also important to introduce uniform control procedures in the area of commercial quality at all stages of the marketing of agri-food products, including the possibility of applying uniform guidelines for the conduct of the control procedure, the specialization of laboratories and the applied test methodology, and the more effective use of inspectors. This will also affect the effectiveness of inspection activities and their results. The changes envisaged by this project will also have an impact on the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, as it will be able to better focus on other relevant competences which it enjoys by relieving the President of this office from the matters relating to food control in retail trade. The integration of agri-food quality control offices occurs in 23 of the 28 Member States of the European Union. Among these are important food producers such as Denmark, France and the Netherlands. As a club, we believe that this solution has a chance to prove itself in Poland. It is also worth noting that entrusting supervision tasks to one institution will result in greater transparency of actions and a reduction in the number of procedures and thus reduce the duration of controls. Due to the fact that all stages of trading will be controlled by one inspection, it will be possible to carry out a fuller risk analysis and controls in those entities where there is the greatest likelihood of deficiencies and to anticipate the greatest risk to consumers' interests. However, these positive proposals should pay attention to the reservations made by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection in the draft law. It is a question of not determining whether personal data are included in the information that the Chief Inspector may request from the Provincial Inspectors. The law on the processing of personal data requires the collection of only such information as is necessary for the purpose of their collection. We therefore welcome the suggestion made by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection to clarify the provisions in this regard. There are doubts about the impreciseness of the catalogue detailing the extent of the data to be made available by government and local authorities to inspections and not to be included in the provisions of the objection that the provision of data must take into account the principles relating to the protection of personal data. We hope that these issues will also be completed in the course of parliamentary work. Having taken these amendments into account as a parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition, we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u150	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Marcin Kulasek will speak first. I'd like to ask you to present your position to the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Leka, I would like to present the first part of the position on the draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Grocery Products and some other laws. Polish food is a cause for pride. We export food worth EUR 30 billion. When we entered the European Union, it was 4 billion. This success does not follow the organisation of inspections that care about the quality of food. The Left has been calling for a single integrated inspection for nearly 10 years. In the last year, NIK also requested the creation of one inspection. One inspection is less bureaucracy and better control. Otherwise, Polish, European consumers will be informed about the slaughter of sick cattle or worrying, growing residues of antibiotics in Polish meat. The legislation proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture is not enough, but a step in the right direction. The Left would therefore support continuing the work on the project and directing it to further work on the committee. However, there must be important issues in the Sejm already. Firstly, you provide much more responsibilities for the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles, but only a few more jobs. After a few new jobs in the voivodship, it's not enough. Secondly, IJHARS employees pay significantly below the market rate. Food control will not be effective when inspection workers earn a little above the minimum wage. Then, after 2, 3 years of inspection work, they will leave for the business they previously controlled. In this way, we will never create an efficient control system. Thirdly, there is no list of laboratories in the project that will pass with their competences to the IJHARS. This raises serious doubts as to whether the inspection will have a proper research base for the implementation of the new competences. Fourthly, we should return to the discussion on the exclusion of the IJHARS from the joint administration. The situation in which voivodship inspections are subject to voivodship results in a dispersion of resources and a reduction in the effectiveness of controls. The Act enhances the role of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products, which should be assessed positively. However, this change is insufficient. Fifthly, in the explanatory memorandum of the law on p. 10 we read that the commercial inspection does not have databases to analyse the likelihood of infringement of food safety rights. Based on what data do you care about the safety of Poles and Poles? Poles have the right to be sure that the food they have on their plate is safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u152	Thank you very much. And Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project submitted raises significant concerns about the competence of the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection. It is an obligation to check the regularity of transactions made financed by the European Guarantee Fund under the common agricultural policy. It should be stressed that such checks have nothing to do with food quality issues, but concern the way public funds are spent under the common agricultural policy. Such checks should be carried out by relevant specialised national paying agencies, such as the National Agricultural Support Centre or the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. This problem is also important for two other reasons. Firstly, inspectors employed in the structures of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles are mainly professionals with competence in matters of food quality and not in matters of finance and transactional accounts. Secondly, extending surveillance to retail level will give inspectors much more control and will therefore require a much greater time commitment, which could significantly reduce the effectiveness of financial and settlement supervision. In conclusion, the proposed increase in the powers of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles, particularly in the field of fiscal and fiscal matters, is part of a worrying and increasingly widespread trend in increasing the strength of institutions controlling at the expense of entrepreneurs. We therefore request that this project be sent to work in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u154	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Sachaiko will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the amendment of the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and some other laws. Here we can briefly say that this bill is going in the right direction. Everyone agrees that it should be accepted, only whether it is the law which the Law and Justice promised Poles. At the end of 2017, the government adopted a draft law on the creation of a State Food Safety Inspection. This is a print from the last term of office, no. 1685. And this law should be adopted, because only it ensures the overall quality of this food, from field to table. For some reason, Law and Justice have withdrawn from this project, they have not kept their promise. This is not the first time, because in 2007 a similar project also the Law and Justice prepared, promising Poles that they would be sure to trade in food and food quality, and they did not accept it either. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been going on since 2007, we have 2020 and the matter is still not settled. And this law on the State Food Safety Inspection should be adopted as much as possible. Here, you have repeatedly said how important this is, it was simply said that the creation of a new inspection was intended to ensure effective control of food from field to table, to eliminate duplication and overlaps, and to reduce the costs of such activities. Why do you refuse to accept this bill? You can't get along within the government because the Ministry of Health doesn't want to give up some of the powers of the State Sanitary Inspection. And then there's the mess, and there's the cost, and we still don't have that certainty about turnover. What else did the Law and Justice politicians say? That combining food safety inspections is one of the flagship projects of Law and Justice. So what happened to this flagship project that he wasn't accepted, but you're doing another stunt by combining a piece of inspection? I think that you rightly take away the powers of the competition inspector, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, because it did not work. In 2019 I wrote a letter showing - even taking pictures, sending - that the food is falsified, that the food is poorly marked. And what did the inspector say to me? That he'd control it. And we still have such examples. The last thing I have to say is to underfinance agriculture. We recently discussed the budget. And what does it turn out to be? That, at the moment, with regard to the agricultural budget, national budget appropriations will be 0.38% GDP. And what was the promise of the Law and Justice of 2015, when Law and Justice were very keen to criticize the Civic Platform and the PSL that they were not financing enough? This promise was one-2% of the national budget. How much do we have? 0.38 - multiple - many times less. Where is the fulfilment of promises on proper financing of agriculture regarding the adoption of the Law on the State Food Safety Inspection? I'm afraid this bill could cause something even worse, more surveillance, and the predecessors have already talked about it here. That's what you need money for, and the money in the budget, as we can see, isn't there, because this increase on this inspection is minimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Two MPs signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u157	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is extremely beneficial, I think it is expected and desirable. It regulates issues related to the responsibility for the commercial quality of agri-food products and, above all, serves consumer safety. This is, I think, the most important, the most important. I therefore have a question: How does the applicant see the further role of the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection in this great system of supervision of agri-food products? Does the applicant recognise the need to further strengthen this inspection and on the substance and on the full-time side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u158	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u159	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For my part - and I think that from all manufacturers, entrepreneurs - great bows and great thanks for this bill. Indeed, entrepreneurs are waiting for such laws that will not be controlled by a number of institutions in the same area, because it simply makes their functioning difficult. Nobody likes to be controlled, but we are all aware that food safety, food safety requires such checks to take place. Entrepreneurs understand that, too. On the other hand, the overlap in several institutions caused them to have a sense of harassment. So I'm very happy for you. However, I have a question: will this new inspection have the power to control at all stages, from production to marketing of a given food product? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u160	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Szymon Giżyński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, submitted an answer to the questions. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for a very substantive, meaningful, concrete discussion, especially to those of you in the vast majority - perhaps with only one exception for one comment - who were focusing on the bill we just presented to you. I would also like to thank you for the statements which the content might as well be added to our justification, and which are presented by Members of the various clubs, because, if there is evidence of merriorism, it is difficult for us to avoid the views and positions presented, which, although they are completely separate in the sense of the communication, nevertheless reflect the support of the ideas which have been presented in the bill, and at the same time very strongly, as independent, support them. This also applies to questions or, above all, to the speech of Mr Lenz, who has only expressed one question, which I am pleased to dispel, because the law implementing the GDPR applies directly and there is no need to recall these provisions in any other legal act or to invoke them or implement them. We did the same thing in this case. We will defend this position, but if these doubts are repeated as to whether similar doubts arise during the committee's deliberations, we will justify our position and we will be polemics and fully open to reasons. I would like to reply to Mr Marcin Kulasko of the Left that the list of laboratories is attached to the impact assessment and includes five laboratories: in Katowice, Kielce, Olsztyn, Poznań and Warsaw. The same act, i.e. impact assessments, is also accompanied by other information on posts, specific issues that we have not discussed, but you see and hear that these data are an integral part of the draft law and provide a clear justification for it. Marcin Kulask also stated - this was an expression extending certain doubts - that the joint administration, which has not been violated here, is an insufficient formula for the tasks set out in the law that we have presented to you. I think that in this concept there is a careful coupling of two trends. Firstly, leaving the combined administration in the voivodship system has its reasons and many times on this subject. Yeah, we did. On the other hand, the very strong non-insulating, non-expression in a passive, lucrative sense, only for the sake of strengthening itself, the position of the chief inspector has a very important substantive justification. The point is that, especially when you expect further threats that disorganize, destroy the market for agricultural products such as avian influenza or ASF, you need rapid action from the centre position, integration action, integrated action, command-based action, commands that penetrate all structures at one time, very short, including a complete scheme of carefully prepared procedures. It can only do the center, it can do the chief inspector and I think it's all complementaryly arranged. That's the assumption. This has been very strongly perceived as a threat if we did not precisely include this in the provisions of the detailed laws. It is quite clear that also the charge made by Mr Rutka, if in good order I have written it down, concerning the situation of inspectors who will come to some unknown land and will have to work in an area not of their competence, fortunately it is not a hit charge. This is probably due to a misunderstanding, certainly not because of bad will, because there is no such situation. Inspectors who have been involved in retail will continue to deal with detail. It was just that it was in one place throughout the whole of these associations that were very familiar and used in different contexts, usually very positive, principle: from field to table, so that it was realized in one arrangement. I would also like to thank Mr Paul Hreniak and Mrs Annie April for their questions and for the information concerning the completely obvious and thus a positive reading of the intention of the government which presented the draft to you. All of these questions are answered publicly and loudly: Yes, all of these matters are positive with regard to your questions, with the same angle, according to the same point of view. Finally, a statement that I don't want to overestimate, so I don't. Well, one of the speakers was the only one who basically used this project to get back to certain political motives that turned the discussion into a completely different area. It reminded me of yesterday's discussion about the ASF Act. There were also no charges at the time, there was even a relatively positive discussion, but there was a transfer of pretension to completely different areas of substance. I also saw a great difficulty in Mr Sachaika's speech to maintain some logic when it comes to the bill as a concrete project. We have asked that there be a substantive reference here, and, in principle, all of you, to varying degrees... This is political freedom and the necessity of a free political discussion - but within the proposed subject. But here we had - let me briefly refer to it - the fact that this great veterinary law was not implemented, in various formulas of the promise. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that both the veterinary law - which I hope will soon absorb the High House, because it is already so prepared that in a few weeks it will also be the subject of our work in the Sejm - and this present law is exactly a step in this direction. There's what can be combined, no polemics, no controversy... There are ideas there, for example. Instead of combining, we strengthen the Veterinary Inspection absolutely in the direction of carrying out all the tasks entrusted to it, including those which it will probably have to carry out due to various developments in the situation. We anticipate it, we finance it. We give you such competences that incredibly strengthen the prestige of a veterinarian as a public official as a public official. That's a veterinary bill that we're not talking about today, so I'm done here. But today's bill - toutes proportions - has exactly the same value and motive. What you can quickly correlate, connect, that's what we do. After all, there was no substantive controversy about this idea, which is very, very happy. So thank you all very much for this. I reject the political motives in this discussion, because the issue and the fundamental question that we are dealing with today is that law, which has been tabled as an object of parliamentary reflection and Parliament's decision, and has been very much respected by you in this discussion and in these declarations. The intentions were recognized, respected, treated, of course, together with the bill, as an introduction to the discussion, which will be the finale, I think - because these were the declarations here. - already final support for the assumptions and for the law itself, for which I thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products and certain other laws, contained in print No 65, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. Therefore, I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice will be the first to speak. I invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to raise the question of the ring road for the city of Kalisz, which as a city of this size is an event on a national scale, because it does not have such a ring road. I mean two bypasses: on the road DK25 and DK12. Kalisz's perimeter is an important investment, about which I have made efforts since I became a Member of the Polish Parliament. It is about the ring road on the national road No 25, i.e. Ostrów Wielkopolski - Kalisz - Konin. During a meeting with the President of Kalisz, which took place in April 2019, the vast majority of parliamentarians accepted the so-called Law and Justice. The third variant of the construction of the ring road. One of the most important criteria to be taken into account is the volume of traffic. In Kalisz such research has been carried out since 2016 by the city's road and communication management. These measurements are a sine qua non condition, their execution determines the implementation of the investment. At this point the question arises: Why didn't Kalisz's authorities run such research under the Civic Platform and PSL? At the time when the President of the city of Kalisz was present Senator of the Civic Platform, Mr Janusz Pęcherz, and as vice-president was one of the prominent activists of the Civic Platform Mr Dariusz Grodziński. Why was it not used when the majority of the City Council of Kalisz, the Seym and the Senate had a coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party? Without a doubt, the lack of such measurements significantly delayed the completion of the investment needed for the city of Kalisza. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I must also point out political non-work on the subject of my predecessors, parliamentarians of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, who could not bring the construction of the Kalisz ring road into the National Road Construction Programme for the years 2014-2023. I am returning to the important issue of daily traffic. It turned out that on all the exit roads from the city, i.e. on ul. Łódź, Poznan, Stawiszyńska and Wrocławska move at least 20,000. vehicles within 24 hours and on ul. Nearly 40,000 Częstochowa. vehicles within 24 hours. These are terrifying sizes. At this point I would like to stress that many cities in Poland have gained a bypass with much less traffic. Just as many vehicles, including many trucks, move across Kalisz east-west of Łódź and Sieradz and Leszna and Poznań. During the talks with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, Kalisz authorities and Members of Law and Justice from the Kalisco-Leszczyński district paid attention to this problem, i.e. the expulsion, in quotes, of course, of transit outside the city on the axis of the national road No 12. To sum up the above, I very much hope to hear about the creation of the ring road fund, which Mr Mateusz Morawiecki referred to as the fund. I very much hope that the construction of the ring road for the city of Kalisza, which will help relieve the city from car transport, will become real in the short term. It is also encouraging to know that the various possible investments that can be made are currently being analysed, together with a potential implementation schedule, and that the task of building the Kalisz ring road is being considered under this programme. It is equally upbuilding that almost all parliamentarians of Law and Justice in Wielkopolska see the problem of the lack of a ring road of Kalisz and understand the urgent need to include this investment in this program of construction of 100 bypasses for cities in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-10-sejm-03-3.u164	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the third session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 4th session of the Sejm, convened on 22 and 23 January 2020, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 14 min 36]]
