ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 10:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u2	Thank you very much. I've got formal applications. As the first Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u3	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hereby request that this session be postponed until Mr Marshal and the Bureau are in a position to determine, in fact, the order of the day which matter is to be dealt with in these proceedings, as it has reached the time limit. Ten, and on the Sejm's website, we only have information about what's a good start. Then, at noon, in less than two hours, the Senior Convention would be convened again. Please, Mr. Marshal, impose some restrictions on the escalation of the implausibility of the High House. The opening of the sitting was delayed seven times on Friday. I stress: the confederate circle is not complaining, it is signaling that this is ridiculous. We're in full squad - whether it's real or virtual. We're ready to work. But you know you don't even ask your students to go to school without a lesson plan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now that we're here, like unruly students on different benches, settle this, vote adjournment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u4	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Coalition, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u5	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request an adjournment and a convocation of the Seniors Convention so that today's session of the Sejm is supplemented by a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers about the actual state of the state budget. Just a few weeks ago, we heard at all the conferences convened by the government and its people that the state's finances were the best in the world, that major reforms had been made, that Poland had never had such a good budget before. Today it turns out that the King is naked. Today, Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin says that if the state of the natural disaster was declared, the state would be bankrupt within three and a half months. Prime Minister! Entrepreneurs expect specific, specific assistance as provided in other countries of the European Union. However, you should tell the truth: Have you wasted the last four years of economic growth and have not reformed public finances? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is it true what Prime Minister Gowin says, or is it true what they said... Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. ...President of the Council of Ministers, President of the National Bank of Poland? 'Cause they said you had an infinite amount of cash. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u6	Mr Krzysztof Funny, I'm sorry, Smile, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for an adjournment and a convocation of the Senior Convention. Mr. Marshal! Today, during this session of the Sejm, we will waste the next hours, so precious to every Pole and every Polish woman. Today we will talk about elections, today we will listen to the Prime Minister. After all, we can include Polish Radio or Polish Television - everything has been said there: that pandemics are actually gone and that we are doing better than all other countries in the world. Today we should include on the agenda of this meeting of the Sejm, in the deliberations, the Left Act, which protect against unemployment, which provide funding for jobs of 75%. provided that the trader maintains this place of work. Now is not the time to talk, not the time for a fair between President Kaczyński and Prime Minister Gowin. Today is the time for work, but today we will waste the next hours on worship and unnecessary talk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. By the way, Marshal, eight people from the Left Club have no active connections and voting opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u8	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the programme, the agenda for the meeting was set at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention, and that further items would be drawn up before 3 p.m. 12 also at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau. We can also move on to the vote on the break at an hour. 12. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, decided to continue the 9th session of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. The Group of Members submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point covering the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the epidemiological situation related to the spread of Coronavirus in Poland. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to complete the agenda for this information. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection. Ten minutes, Mr. Marshal. Mr... Questions. The questions will be asked, while the maximum speaking time has been set by the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention, where you were represented. And we keep saying it's gonna take longer. Oh, yeah. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on: the situation... But you have to vote against it. But there's an objection. We're not voting against this right now, because it's been established... ...the point begins. You can't start a point without indicating in time... But these rules of discussion were laid down at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. But there's an objection. But if... But that's what the Seym determines. Not you. There was a proposal from the Bureau... It's true. I know that, but you agreed to a five-minute... No. There was an objection. Do you want to hear the information or just cause confusion? We want to be able to... You're limiting the debate anyway... Mr President, I propose a compromise: 7 minutes. Eight minutes. Thank you very much. Seven minutes. We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the epidemiological situation related to the spread of Coronavirus in Poland. I ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to present the information. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! I know well that for many of you, for many of your fellow countrymen, news coming from all over the world, as well as news coming to us from Poland, are a cause of great concern. This is what happens in all Polish houses. We know very well that everything we do must be designed to reduce the spread of Coronavirus. I am also convinced that the reliable knowledge we pass on can be a source of peace or calmness and a proper approach to the next phase of the fight against the coronavirus. The situation in Europe, especially in western Europe, causes us a lot of concern. We see how the number of diseases in Western Europe is increasing, and we see that these increases are very fast. And that also makes unwarranted optimism, which some commentators, and completely regardless of political colors, are already trying to generate, is not the right approach. It is simply today, at this stage of the development of the Kronovirus epidemic, we must continue to make this enormous effort and submit to enormous discipline, huge additional rigors, restrictions on social distance, we must respect many principles, many procedures. We're still at the beginning of the fight against the coroner's virus. This means that many of our activities in public life, in social life, in economic life must adapt to the epidemic. We need to fight the epidemic while trying to build a new model of economic life so that the economy will suffer as little as possible. If we continue to approach with iron discipline, with the discipline with which the Polish society approaches the fight against the koravirus, if we continue to observe quarantine as well as we have so far, or perhaps even better, then - I am convinced - we will be able to deal with the pandemic of coronavirus better than many other countries. We approach this situation with great humility also for one more reason. No one in the world knows what will be the course of the Coronavirus epidemic: whether it will last until June or August, whether it will be a small relapse in the autumn, big or not, whether it will be a koravirus back in the winter, whether the vaccine will be invented in December or maybe in February next year. All this means that we must try to reduce the spread of this epidemic while trying to restore many forms of economic life and operate in public life in many areas so that it is as small as possible distorted. Because it's disturbed, there's no doubt about it. The functioning of people around the world has been disrupted and we in Poland also operate in new, different conditions, under conditions of the epidemiological crisis. I think everyone's seeing it. Everyone's noticed it. Ladies and gentlemen! Many public discussions concern disease models. We also listen, analyze, listen to experts and analyze a lot of models that can happen. They are primarily marked by one characteristic feature, which usually as a small star is somewhere at the beginning of any analysis - American, Chinese, European or Polish. Well, experts are aware that this modeling is burdened with a huge margin of error. And that's why we're trying to mediate different rations, we're trying to draw knowledge from very different analyses, from those optimistic, pessimistic, and those we call base, taking action. We expect the peak to be ahead of us - sometime in May, June. As many experts have said, ultraviolet rays will certainly be helpful in the fight against the coronavirus, but we want to reduce the number of diseases and in particular the curve of the disease until then. The Americans say that they may have a peak in April. We don't know whether it's April or May or June. We try to prepare all procedures in such a way that we can address all the problems we face today. Among these problems, the first thing I'm going to talk about is equipment. Equipment, available personal protective equipment is a very important aspect of the fight against the coronavirus. Today we still have not enough of this equipment, but we are trying to get it from all directions of the world (the bell) and we are also trying to recreate domestic production. At this point it is certainly worth noting that we are convinced that the restoration of the production of national masks, protective aprons, in the future may also be more advanced equipment - will help, also in the future, in the fight against the coronavirus if there is no very optimistic scenario, i.e. the rapid invention of the vaccine or the rapid eradication of this pandemic. Nearly 3 million gloves have already been distributed, nearly 0.5 million l of disinfectant for hospitals. The supplies are ready for the following weeks - 31 million medical masks, and 7 million medical masks were distributed to hospitals. First of all, we get new amounts of masks, aprons, suits, goggles and ventilators. The transport of 165 respirators from 1000 new orders arrived in Poland. We are trying, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, to anticipate the course of events. That's why we're creating new places on infectious wards, we're creating new infectious wards, that's why 20 single-name hospitals were created. We are also preparing for a longer fight against the epidemic and therefore we need to rebuild our Polish production potential. It's already happening. Several hundred smaller and larger sewing plants and not only moved their production. It is also a kind of sign of time that at a time when we do not know exactly when the disease will peak, we do not know what the situation will be like in the autumn, in the spring of next year, we need to permanently rebuild production structures in our country in order to prevent any future relapses of this pandemic. And as some experts say, the virus mutates quickly, can mutate quickly, and therefore you also need to protect yourself for the future. There's already an additional 150,000 in the labs. tests. Testing is also often a subject of public debate, so now I want to devote a few minutes to this area. Today we are carrying out about 6 and 7 thousand daily. tests. In a few days, when I was informed by the experts, it would be 8 and 9,000. tests. Well, with all responsibility, I would like to stress that those countries that had the same number of diseases as Poland today were at the stage at which Poland is present, tested a lot less cases on 1 million inhabitants, regardless of what country it was, France or the United Kingdom or even Spain and Italy. All you have to do is reach for the statistics. So as for the number of cases detected at this stage of pandemic development, the number of tests that we have contracted, this is 800,000. tests, 800,000. contracted tests, 150,000. available, 150,000. tests are already on its way, in the next few days it will be in Poland, which means we have a huge amount of tests. We are testing in those places where epidemiologists, virusologists, experts show us that we need to be tested, i.e. in various kinds of high-risk places, such as quarantine facilities, such as hospitals, hospitals, hospitals where health services work, because we are very much interested in finding cases of illness in health care. Today we are conducting so many tests that it allows us to detect more cases than the countries that were at this stage of pandemic development. Relatively low incidences do not cause our attention to be dormant today, because we realize that pandemics can speed up, can flatten. We are doing everything we can to ensure that our health care is better prepared in April, May, June, July for a given stage of the fight against the coronavirus. No one in the world knows when there will be a summit, no one in the world knows when there will be a slowdown, whether it will be violent, whether it will be with an extended curve. That's why we need to prepare the number of hospitals, the number of hospital beds adapted to patients with coronavirus, and that's what we're doing. The anxiety that has been with us in recent weeks is fully understandable. It follows that we are facing a large, huge unknown, unknown both in social life, for public health, as well as in economic life. Pandemic has an enormous impact on the life of the world economy. The crisis, which is the participation of countries around the world, and to a large extent also of Western countries, the richest countries, has become a subject of great concern and analysis, but at the same time with great humility the best economists of the world admit that no one expected such a crisis. Therefore, all those who say that this remedy should be used, such a tool should be taxed three times more, found the means to spend it as soon as possible, and I strongly encourage you to examine all the expertise that the government uses to find the most appropriate answer, because it needs to be dealt with with with immense humility. Nobody knows how this crisis is going to go, and it is necessary to take care of the power of the zloty, the strength and sustainability of the state's public finances, the coherence of monetary, regulatory, fiscal and financial policies in the wider sense of the word, for particular sectors of the national economy. The pandemic to some extent resembles the impact of all crises at the same time, because we are dealing with a fall in commodity prices, with a weakening of currencies - the dollar is gaining on values, which is a classic case of weakening very many currencies in the world, including the euro to the dollar, and therefore not only the dollar - of course the crisis is hitting with a wealth channel, there is a fall in prices of various assets around the world, but also the crisis is quite unusual, because at the same time it is hitting the supply side and demand side of the national economy, ba, all economies around the world. This is the tragedy of the situation we're facing today. As there was an Asian crisis, it was possible to count on the United States, as there was a crack in the Internet bubble, the rest of the world supported economic development, as the banking sector later in 2007 and 2008 was the cause of the crisis, and central banks also affected the recovery of the global economy. Today all these causes threaten or already occur in many places simultaneously. That is why we need to approach the many actions we are proposing with great caution. The New York Times says that this crisis has been the biggest collapse in the global economy in the last 100 years. This is probably saying a lot, as is the analysis of all the world's most reputable economic institutions, which show that today we need to consolidate our approach in economic policies, we need to take great care of many of the activities relating to the economy on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the approach to reducing Coronavirus, because unfortunately the health crisis is increasingly developing into an economic crisis in all countries of the world, which is clearly seen in very rich countries of the world. That is why we have proposed our package, which, I understand, will probably still be able to present many concrete effects before Christmas, and today I will only say, because this morning I read the information that President Trump informed that it was already 28,000. companies in the United States, small and medium-sized companies, apply for special assistance similar to this - similar type, in similar shape and in similar proportions to GDP - as Poland did 2 weeks ago. Meanwhile, I would like to report to the High House and to inform my dear fellow countrymen that, as of today, 200 thousand. companies in Poland have already submitted an application to the relevant institutions. And how much did it fall? These proposals are already under consideration. At the end of this week, we expect 280,000. such conclusions. We are in a situation where we approach with great humility, which I stress, because we realize that there is still much to be done. We must and we will respond flexibly to every day that the coronavirus brings. In the long list of the components of the crisis shield we have proposed, there are actually all economic, financial, fiscal and monetary instruments, as entry with the support of the central bank is not any real, concrete financial assistance to the banking sector. It means greater availability of money for different types of programs. This is what the European Central Bank, the American central bank of the Fed, and all other central banks of the wealthy Western countries do. That is why we are trying with such great care to manage all available resources so that the arsenal of these resources is available both today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, because all experts, as I said at the beginning, stress that it is not known what the course of the Coronavirus pandemic will be. This epidemic hit the foundations of the entire global economy, in particular the Western Europe, the European Union. This is why, at all the meetings of the European Council that have taken place in recent weeks, I have made it very clear that the European Union must build a very brave package that we must return to our previous ideas, of course not only Polish ones, but Poland has emphasized them with great power for more than two years, such as digital tax, financial transaction tax, financial transaction tax, carbon footprint tax or such ideas as the unique idea of the Visegrad Group, which is a tax on large international corporations. These are ideas that can make the European Union's budget no more than 1 billion or 2 billion, but tens of billions of euros per year. A little of that, today from this tribune I want to say first of all what we have been talking about over the last few years like Katon about Carthage: it has to work, no more tax havens. Poland has been talking about it loudly for several years since the rule of law and justice. Tax havens represent a major loss of resources for all countries, and for the richer and the poorer. It is a mechanism through which rich people and rich companies account for themselves in countries such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Cyprus. We want to rule it out. We want no tax havens in the world. This is a great Polish call, through which we want to make the state budgets have the means to fight the coronavirus, so that the European Union budget also has the means to fight the coronavirus. An explanation for joint procurement within the European Union has already been made of this bleacher before the weekend. Let me just remind you that it was the government of the Civic Platform in 2009 that resigned from joint procurement, joint procurement. Everyone knows that. Ten years ago. In March we restored Poland's ability to participate in joint shopping. I would also like to stress that I am very pleased that our calls in the European Union to involve more resources together, including new resources, are giving more and more results. Until now, we have had the opportunity to use increasingly flexible sources or to apply more flexible measures from the Structural Funds, cohesion policy measures. A few days ago, from this bleacher, Minister Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak spoke about this. That's good. We're glad there's flexibility. Above all, however, if you look at the transcripts of the European Council meetings, the voice of Poland is clear: we need new resources within the European Union. A week ago, I spoke with the President of the European Commission, Ms Ursula von der Leyen, about the need for new measures. Poland is ready to participate in guarantee mechanisms in a proportionate way so that these guarantee mechanisms will give rise to the possibility of emissions on world markets. The idea is to get the additional resources from this emission in proportion, so that these resources can be used to combat the coronavirus. I am talking about this with great caution, at the same time with great hope, because it is not only Polish actions. Just follow the transcripts of the meetings of the European Council. All the countries, including Italy, France, Spain and the whole Visegrad Group, have been asking for what I am calling very loudly, i.e. for a common, solidarity policy, which is growing today. I mean this flexibility mechanism. It's a good thing he is, we're happy for him, we pointed out that he should be, and that's what happened, but there's got to be new resources. 3 minutes ago I told you where these new funds could come from: digital tax, carbon footprint tax, financial transaction tax, single market tax, large multinational corporations and, above all, the elimination of tax havens. I also told the High House that Poland actively participates in the construction of new mechanisms for financing and assembly of financial and credit lines for the implementation of various infrastructure projects in the field of health care, public health protection, which may be useful in the future, but this future, as I said at the beginning, is very uncertain. Therefore, these mechanisms, which have been achieved today, on paper so far, are very important too, and we are very happy about that too. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that we are facing a dramatic situation. Today 1250 thousand were registered in the world. disease, there are already several countries in which the number of 100,000 is exceeded. diseases, in Italy it is over 130 thousand, in Spain too. The number of deaths that saddens us so much, which upsets us the most and upsets us, has already reached huge numbers, is about 70,000. People. In Italy, in Spain these numbers are very high. Although experts, whom Poland has also decided in our solidarity to propose... We've sent our specialists, our rescue mission, our military mission to Italy, where there are huge thanks. We are preparing such a mission for other countries as well. This mission is also needed because we gain experience. Thanks to this we know how to build field hospitals, where it is best to create new places, whether they should be in large halls, or rather in isolated, smaller buildings. These are the experiences we gain. This is because we are effectively, although with humility, implementing one fundamental strategy: we are slowing the increase in the number of diseases compared to what is happening in Western Europe, compared to what is happening in many other countries of the world, including the United States. At the same time, we are creating new mechanisms for financing the economy, new, strengthened mechanisms for health protection, which are aimed at the long term, but this further perspective is weeks rather than months, bringing economic, social and public life back to shape, which I would call, as some people have already called it, a new normality, because the world will not return to the state in which it was a few months ago. Everyone knows that today. We need to find new equilibrium points, new equilibriums in order to actually try to live and work and at the same time provide the best possible health care for all patients who have gotten sick in Poland, under the circumstances of the development of Coronavirus in which we find ourselves. And in order for that to happen, I will once again call for this basic principle to be maintained, which almost all experts around the world agree on: social distance and hygiene, what we have been stressing for a few weeks. Poles in quarantine behave very responsibly. We maintain a social distance and this helps greatly in slowing down the number of diseases, and in the future, I hope, in flattening the disease curve. Our joint efforts, the efforts of all Poles are necessary to limit the spread of Coronavirus and to be able to return to this new normality, to the normality that we all miss. I am convinced that, in our solidarity efforts, we will be able to rebuild our social and economic life in a manner suitable to combat the coronavirus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u10	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The Sejm agreed that 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle would be heard in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u11	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! In this extraordinary, difficult, very serious situation you need - I think once again - to begin by thanking many people in our country who are on the front line of the fight against this epidemic, for health professionals, for many employees of various medical professions: doctors, nurses, emergency workers, but also laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists who are dispensing drugs in pharmacies. All these people work very hard every day for our safety. Let's remember here about the health inspection staff. Often too little is said about them. 16,000. employees who are also on the front line of the fight against the epidemic. Their actions may be less visible, but at the same time the burden is enormous. They, organizing the first laboratories, were among the first to take action in this area. Let's thank the uniforms who care about it in a wonderful way. Various media, various television stations have repeatedly shown how police quarantine is controlled, but it is also military and other uniformed services. Finally, it is a lot of workers who have not been able to stop their activities, who work in different kinds of shops, make sure that deliveries are continuous, so that we are supplied with all kinds of goods needed every day. Finally, of course, I thank the government, in a special way, thank you to the Minister for Health and the group of his colleagues, the whole government for all these extremely difficult, probably often beyond the forces involved, also for the actions taken with the chief health inspector. Ladies and gentlemen! These actions, which are being taken at the moment, the decisions made by the Minister of Health, are in fact based on the Anti-Fraud Act of 24 October 2008, on measures in the case of infections and in the case of epidemics. This is where we have to go back to that time. I remember working on that bill. This is actually a very restrictive bill. And I remember concerns, then we were in opposition, whether these powers to introduce, whether in one voivodeship by voivodeship, or throughout the country by the Minister of Health, with all these sharpenings with which we meet every day, cannot be a field for possible abuses, especially since we have exceptional states, including the state of natural disaster, which could have been introduced in accordance with the existing constitution in Poland. But no, the state then, a state from the government of PO-PSL, convinced us, at that time I also worked in the subcommittee, that it is worth introducing various types of safeguards in case of a possible epidemic that could cover the whole country. And such safeguards have been introduced, and this has been introduced unanimously, ladies and gentlemen. Despite the clear concerns of the opposition, not one person abstained, we all voted in favour together. Let us remember that it is worth it and you need to work together in some situations. Such a good example was, for example, the Health Act, which referred to the 2008 Act when we were all able to work together on the amendments. I remember, too, some of you attended committee meetings when we were able to accept amendments together for the sake of the public - we as the governing party for your amendments, and you as our amendments to improve the bill. Therefore, we should ask whether we should continue on this path, on the path of finding compromise, on the way of seeking agreement, on the way of making real and feasible amendments to important government laws, on the shield of crisis or on the next plans that the government will present. In every case, ladies and gentlemen, we need our shared responsibility, because that is what society expects of us, not to bid on who could do something better, whether the government is doing everything well enough. Surely many things could be done differently, but no one, ladies and gentlemen, has the right experience in the world. Looking objectively at what is happening in other countries, on the irresponsibleness of some governments, I will not mention in which countries, it can be said that we responded very early, and even in some sense disproportionately early to the situation when this epidemic was not yet in Poland, because the government, the crisis staff, was still operating before the first illness in Poland. Let us continue to work together so that society can assess that we have passed this important exam both for the government and for the opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, as the Prime Minister said, for the actions of society, for discipline, for discipline in quarantine. At the same time, we expect this discipline to continue. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u12	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mr Boris Budek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u13	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Empty words. Instead of concrete proposals, unfortunately, we have another festival of generalizations. Yes, indeed, you may be an expert when it comes to talking about hiding wealth and tax havens. You don't need a tax paradise, you just need to rewrite the property into a wife, right? Ladies and gentlemen! We need to be clear, clear: you have no proposals, and unfortunately you have not taken advantage of the good proposals of the Polish Senate, you have not taken advantage of the good proposals of the opposition. Here, in this Seym, you have rejected every amendment. Where were you when we proposed that every company, no matter how many employees, should receive state aid? You voted against. Where were you when we offered $20 billion for health care? You voted against. Where were you when we asked for the guardians of the disabled? These kids can't go to school because the schools are closed. We wanted to help them. How did you vote? No, no, no, no, no, And today you're talking about a deal? Yeah, we're ready for that. Every day we come to the Sejm with proposals. There are senate laws, projects of the Left, the Polish People's Party and the Civic Coalition. But instead of talking about these proposals, you want to change the electoral code. After all, in two hours, in an hour you will be proposing to put in a correspondence vote - instead of talking about proposals for Poles. Prime Minister! During your speech, I received several dozen messages. People are asking for specifics. Three-year-old and 11-year-old crying mother talking about working at a hotel. She can't go to work because you shut her down overnight. What are the proposals? None. Prime Minister! This is a human tragedy, and you rubbish talk about how to restrict civil rights, and you will propose that the Post Office read our correspondence. This is your proposal for a crisis. It's an extraordinary thing... Unbelievable, true, unbelievable. ...that when we are in perhaps the biggest crisis since World War II, you are even lying to our partners from the European Union. The European Commission must claim the truth. For God's sake! I want you to give up this narration. Let's finally be together, but let's be honest. Polish employers expect specific help. Polish doctors expect protective equipment, expect decent pay, expect to be tested. What about Are you talking about tax havens? And who stopped working on taxing American corporations because the American embassy got involved? Oh, for God's sake! Be honest for once! Honesty in times of crisis is a fundamental value. Honesty to voters, but also honesty to ourselves. I urge you to stop this propaganda. Exactly. That's a good appeal. To my own place. After all, Marshal Terlecki recently, on October 2, 2019, talked about the fact that we have the best health care. Others can learn. Prime Minister Morawiecki taught the Germans, saying: take an example from our budget. In Germany - 15 thousand. the euro for each trader. You offered us $5,000, and this is a loan that needs to be paid back. Prime Minister! I appeal for honesty. I urge you to read those statements of Internet users that are after such an address. Let's get to work. We're ready, but let's be serious. Tests, health care, financial resources. And let us be solidarity within the European Union, because this is what Poles, your voters, the voters of the Left, PSL and ours expect of us. We're ready for this job. Just - for God's sake - be honest for once. [[Applause]] Bravo! Don't summon God with your lies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u14	Mrs Barbara Nowack will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed to tell here about some of your wars, personal games with PSL, with the Civic Platform, when every day people wake up not with concern, as you say, but with horror - about work, children, food, their future, their companies? We're not at a political war today because 38 million people don't want that. 38 million people today are asking: let the government deal with solving problems. Mr Latos talks so much about cooperation. We're ready. We're ready, and this is our job. We submit projects, we bring ready solutions. We say test the doctors once a week. And the Prime Minister says he'd like the tests to be done. You're not a wanted man, Prime Minister. You're the problem solver here and now. You're here to take care of what people are supposed to do today, who are losing their apartment in a minute. This is a real problem. This is a real problem: what are the moments when single mothers will give their children food? That is the problem: how children should learn today. We don't want to hear about wars and political conflicts. We want to be able to deal with what 38 million Poles and Poles say: problems and solutions to these problems. These problems are solved and the proposals are ready on the table. But that takes courage. It takes courage, Prime Minister, to say: The European Union is a force that can help us. You just have to stop insulting her and start working together. Because there is actually a big exam ahead of us, ahead of us as a society - with responsibility and solidarity. You've got a ruling exam ahead of you. Unfortunately, for the time being, you're failing him. You flunk him every day and everyone sees it. It's seen by employers, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs who have to fire people because you put holes in your shield. Teachers and teachers see it. This is seen by people who are already unemployed through your holes in the system. The medic sees it. This is seen by a nurse who glues a trash bag with duct tape and goes to work on the front line. So? And there's nowhere to go -- you don't give it to her -- then come back, because she has to choose whether she's going back to her little children or her older parents or if she's camping out at night. Maybe with friends, maybe he'll rent an apartment. What's he gonna rent for? These are people's real problems today. And if you don't look -- not at the big figures, Prime Minister, as you customarily do, not at the tables and not at the perfect imaginations -- at a normal person who has daily problems with finding himself and in this difficult situation, and in this isolation, but, above all, with thinking about what's next, you will fail the exam not only from the government (the bell), but also from the patriotic exam. You can't stand it. We're trying not to let you do this. Let us cooperate, sincerely and openly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister spoke as long as usual today, but not much. All these promises presented have nothing to do with the facts. Yesterday we had 475 new diseases and unfortunately another 15 deaths. All in all, over 4,000. Infected. These are real numbers. And you, Prime Minister? Why don't you tell us about the details today? Why didn't you mention that almost half a million people lost their jobs in March? Why didn't you tell me that a few hundred thousand companies had suspended their operations or just went bankrupt? Why didn't you tell me the truth? Because it's your government's estimate that next week, on Christmas, there'll be over 10,000. Infected with the virus, it's your government specialists, your experts say that in April, 3 million people will lose their jobs. What do you guys do? Yes, you work, even at night, but in Nowogrodzka, where trade fairs have been going on between Mr Kaczyński and Mr Gowin for a week. About what? About the election. During the week, you have not submitted a single bill, not a single project, which could clearly tell how you will help workers and entrepreneurs. For what you did? You've made two draft laws that change the electoral code. This shows what your priorities are today. The Government of Law and Justice failed in the hour of trial, and you personally take responsibility for it. Every day of the corpse is 100,000. employee layoffs. You know that very well, and you don't care. That's enough. In society there is a rise in rebellion and it is time to end this farce of pretending to help. We demand a natural disaster. It's a constitutional way of moving elections, fast and effective. This is also fully justified in the state in which we are in an epidemic situation. And don't let it occur to you to introduce a state of emergency, because people will come for you sooner than you think. It's the Platform that needs to be said. I want you to reschedule this election and start doing what's important. It's a constitutional change. And if you have problems with that, you do not have your own ideas, then use ours, the ideas of the Left that we have put forward in this House. I'll remind you of these ideas once again, even though I told you about it a week ago from that lecturer. Maybe it's until it's done. Then you will have no problems and you will do what the Poles expect. Firstly, state funding of 75% of wages for any entrepreneur who keeps his job. Secondly, the redemption of mortgage and consumer loans during the crisis. Third, the State's payment of fixed costs to companies: gas, rent, electricity, leases for at least 6 months. And fourthly, support for hospitals and raises for health professionals. These are the most important issues right now. Did you count it? Did you count the costs? But they have the best budget. Messengers and Members of the Left receive dozens of letters. Everyone is concerned with fear and fear for the future. These are the letters, Prime Minister, these are all the letters. What do you want your wife to say to the husband whose company just shut down? What will Mrs. Teresa of Suwałk's children say, a single mom who got her notice on March 31st? What do young Janek and Marta from Zgorzelec, who have worked in trash cans so far, have to pay a loan? You don't hear that in the PiS, do you? You can't hear this despair. You don't hear the fear of your loved ones, your parents, your grandparents. You don't hear the fear of losing your job. You can't hear because you don't want to hear. But you'll find out. I will leave these letters to the Prime Minister so that you can respond to millions of Poles and Poles, how to pay for electricity, gas, leasing, credit. You're smiling, Prime Minister, but I wanted to tell you that for many families in Poland... Mr. Chairman, how can you? How can you do that? ...no income even for a month means the ghost of a really big crisis. I'm putting So before the Prime Minister and the High House, a project on how to save millions of people who are about to collapse. We're doing this as a Left because we want to work with you and your government. The Left therefore proposes that, in time of crisis, a crisis benefit be introduced for anyone who lost his job during the epidemic or closed down the company. Such a minimum wage will be paid throughout the crisis. That's the minimum you have to do for the citizen. I believe that this time you and your government will not throw away all these adjustments to the basket, just as Law and Justice threw away 200 amendments of the Left last week. You rejected them, knowing that they were good corrections and that they would help people live a decent life. Finally, Prime Minister, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to remind you that as of mid-January, Prime Minister Morawiecki and Mr Duda have assured us that the state is ready for an epidemic and a crisis. Today, you've been lying to us. Worse still, you lied to your citizens. You've wasted three months, and the scale of omissions is enormous. Hospitals keep alerting them that they don't have the right equipment. Doctors and nurses are more and more likely to suffer from Coronavirus because we couldn't equip them properly. Medical paramedics, and this report from yesterday, they have one protective suit on four. Did you think we'd forget all this? That's not gonna happen. No one's gonna forget that. I predict that the Left will keep a white book of neglect and irregularities in times of plague. We will write down all your empty words and unfulfilled promises. We'll record every place you've failed and every death you've hidden. We will not give up on you because this is what Poles and Poles expect from us. Remember those words, Prime Minister, because the Left will look at your hands closely. Today, today, April 6th, there is a time of rehearsal and you are responsible for every wasted hour for which history will bill you. The left will stand by. We want to cooperate because Poland is the most important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u18	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Prime Minister! You have just heard the voices of politicians, very right, who pay attention to the most important things: life and health, job protection, rescue for the Polish economy. You can treat these voices as often our voices, our politicians, as voices in dispute. Today I give my vote to those who have written e-mails to me, to the Polish Coalition, to all of us. Mrs Dagmara writes: "I am writing to you as the wife of an entrepreneur who devoted the last 19 years of his life to building a company. At the time, there were worse and better moments, but we've always been straight. We built a business that employs over 100 people, almost all on employment contracts. We invested all our profits because everyone said it was the right thing to do. Now, day by day, we've been cut off from all orders. We've got nothing. We can't count on any support from the shield. Employees who are like family to us have to give notice, and that's just before Christmas. My heart breaks when I see a husband who's awake, doesn't eat, sits around, worries about what else to do. I don't know what's gonna happen next, but I do know that all those promises of government are worthless. Mr Wiesław, a farmer from Theodosia in the municipality of Biała Rawska: As a well-known farmer, socially active, I get a lot of information from farmers who regret the government and the Minister of Agriculture of PiS that they have not presented a proposal for aid to the agricultural sector in the face of the economic collapse caused by trade bans in connection with the fight against the coronavirus. There are particularly many criticisms coming from farmers who are involved in the production and sale of plants. For many of them the spring season is a harvest, especially for producers of early vegetables and annual flowers, discount. Everyone is in a similar situation because trade in ordinary markets and wholesale markets has been severely reduced or completely closed. They complain because they invested a lot in their production - in expensive fertilisers, infrastructure - and today they have nowhere to sell early vegetables, botwines, winter onions with chives and discount flowers. As if that were not enough, some registered as special agricultural production departments have already paid a tax in advance for the entire year 2020, because one way to determine the revenue from this source is to apply the estimates set out in the Finance Minister's Regulation. No government has put forward a support plan for farmers whose situation is very difficult today. Mrs Marzena, the entrepreneur from Płock: As usual, I was left out in this shield. I opened my activities on 1 March 2020. I've been in traffic, and from day to day, I've been out of work because my market has been shut down. My husband is on an allowance of PLN 1,500. I have to use this money for my ZUS contribution. Our budget is therefore 0 PLN. What am I supposed to pay for water, electricity, heating? What am I supposed to give the baby food for? We can't survive without help. Mr. Przemyslaw, the entrepreneur: I'll start by saying that I've never asked anyone for help in my life. Unfortunately, recent events related to the coronavirus and the top-down closing of shops in galleries have put me and my entire family before the ghost of bankruptcy and the loss of their entire life. From day to day I was deprived of the ability to make any kind of money, and the fact that our company is a family business, we create it with my wife and several employees, put us in a tragic situation. We're having trouble getting a working credit for the company and we're starting to get very high on our payments. Our company has been operating in its current shape for five years and we're doing something we love. Unfortunately, in a moment, we may lose everything, along with the house and any place to live. We have two children aged 7 and 8. This whole mess is very negative for our daughters who want to sell their toys. Unfortunately, day by day, we are without means to live. Prime Minister, these are just some of those letters. If they don't move your hearts, your minds, your sensibilities, and you go out into this pulpit and you name yourself heroes... Real heroes are somewhere else. These are the letters that fight for every workplace, the ones in hospitals, the stores where they serve goods, and wherever they work under difficult conditions. These are true heroes, and they deserve a bow of gratitude and expressions of the greatest support, not just words. I thought I'd hear from you today, Prime Minister, and I think many of those who write these letters thought they'd hear what they'd be like and when there'd be real help. What about business matters in the following weeks? Will I be safe/safe when my children, my husband or my wife went to work? When are they gonna get back to this job? They didn't hear the answer to those questions. We propose, I propose today on behalf of the Polish Coalition the three most important issues. And that's an offer for you, that's an extended hand. Firstly, we must maintain the efficiency of the health system, safeguard, give full safety to all health workers. A chance to take care of those who have been infected with the virus is about special monitoring of geriatrics, DPS, care and medical facilities. It is also about stable financial support for hospitals whose other branches do not function and showing the path of access to health protection for other patients, not only for those who are infected with the coronavirus. Secondly, a real crisis shield with the payment fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, with exemption from the Social Security Office for each company, with a minimum remuneration for any employee who has suffered from coronavirus. Thirdly, the solidarity pact. A solidarity pact for the coming months between the opposition and the rulers. The solidarity pact, on the basis of which we will draw up the next three or four months or five months of action to be taken by the government, and we will draw up these plans for society as a whole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the moment when you, Prime Minister, must step out of the political framework and become responsible, together with us, for the future of the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're watching the collapse. Not everyone can see it yet, but in a few weeks even TVP viewers will see it. The hospital director in Bytom organized quarantine for doctors in the O.R. with patients with COVID, without food and without protective measures. The hospital director in Toruń banned doctors from wearing protective masks because they didn't protect anything, and they would also provoke other personnel to demand protection. One of the hospital departments was closed shortly after that due to as many as 22 cases of coronavirus. The other doctors are refused tests. They walk and continue to infect even though they want to protect our health. These things happen all over Poland, but we know very little about it, because doctors are forbidden to speak about what is happening in hospitals. It is all owned by Minister Szumowski, who has become the most popular politician in the country, because he looks like he's tired - and he's probably very tired. And we have only the beginning of the epidemic. What are you talking about? Everywhere we look, there's some stupidity, some management pathology, some irresponsible decision-makers. Prime Minister! It is revenge to fill all posts with political and party keys. And what does the Sejm's concrete rescue wheel look like for entrepreneurs who are called an anti-crisis shield to mislead their opponent? It counts 179 pages, and the manual is 172 pages. Prime Minister, this is a bureaucratic horror movie. The Material Reserve Agency does not have basic medical devices. The Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund has no money for redundant workers. I'm not gonna tell you what happened to the Demographic Reserve Fund, which couldn't hide either, and now I don't think it's gonna work. Our entire economy is still unable to produce enough complex and technologically advanced products such as masks, gloves, not to mention extremely difficult to produce liquid for disinfection. In the meantime, the most important topic for you for the past few days is whether the elections will take place on May 10th. All over the world, everyone is translating elections - even in Ethiopia, which is not famous for being an efficient country with a high political culture. They were careful enough to postpone the election, and you weren't. When the President of the Polish Post claimed that he was unable to handle correspondence elections, he was expelled, and in his place you appointed the Deputy Minister of National Defence. And why are you pursuing elections at all costs, sir? Because you know exactly what kind of drama will be going on for the next few months. We're going to be hit by the biggest number of diseases, the total collapse of hospitals that you haven't cared about over the years, the economic downturn, unemployment. People are running out of money. By murdering the economy and weakening human mental resilience, we buy time very dearly without using it for anything. You don't have a plan, no strategy, except waiting it out. Our country still has so much strength and will to give a ticket to a hairdresser raising children alone who had to work for food. The question is, will this force be enough when people massly start breaking bans with questionable legal grounds? And they're gonna start breaking them because you can see that the enthusiasm from a few weeks ago has evaporated. Frustration will grow with each day, as savings shrink, which, according to macroeconomic data, Poles do not have. Prime Minister! You said no more tax havens. Tax havens are a major loss to national budgets. This is the worst way you can take. Poland should be the tax haven for Poles. Instead of demanding three new taxes imposed on us from Brussels, finally start reducing taxes in Poland for Polish entrepreneurs, for Polish workers. It's the only reasonable way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u22	Mr Grzegorz Braun will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u23	God bless you! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Honourable Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! What kind of agenda are you guys doing here? Every day, every week reveals a gap between the declared goals and the goals that you really achieve. Now you're gonna be fighting the heroic effects of the disaster and the psychosis you're turning on yourself. You don't give it up, you don't let it go. Behind the screen, behind the smoke screen, under the pretext of fighting a sensitive virus, you're building no longer the logs, but the upper floors of the total surveillance system, and that's the kitchen door, isn't it? Not by the Ministry of Security and not by the Ministry of Defense, but by the Ministry of Digitalization - it offers to all Poles such an application: download, Pole, countryman, citizen, on your own smartphone such an electronic shepherd for polite citizens. What are you doing here? Do you know what this agenda is? Or do the elders and the wiser reveal to you from day to day, what is this scenario in which you have become so involved in playing? One thing is to take care of the weaker ones, so those whose health is exposed to a higher risk of any infection, not only those declared by the World Health Organization the most fashionable in the current season. They need to be taken care of - a clear matter. It is about solidarity and all civilized traditions in Poland. But closing churches? Close the woods? What are you guys up to in those woods? Who's gonna land in this forest that Poles can't go for a walk, get some air at the beautiful spring sun? This is, of course, crazy. Poles understand it better every day. I fear that, like the marshal and your marshal, and the Bureau as a whole does not yet know what we will be voting on here in a few hours - because they have not delivered the wheelbarrows of these laws which you are about to throw in here - I am so worried that the Prime Minister and his crew are taking the train they have entered, but they do not see the purpose. There were questions coming out of this tribune when you started coming out of this madness of closing the state, freezing the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These questions demand an immediate answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u24	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. A dozen people came to the questions. I would like to inform you that the Sejm Bureau, on the basis of the article. 39 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a limit of 30 questions for clubs according to parity: for Law and Justice - 15, for the Civic Coalition - 9, for Left - 3, for PSL - 2 and for the wheel - 1. The list of Members voted on has been closed. Question time - 1 minute. Maybe one and a half minutes, Marshal. As the first Member, Mr Tomasz Latos, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u25	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will admit that speaking first here, I was hoping that this discussion would be carried out by every co-conciliation and constructive club. I have to say, it wasn't, unfortunately, in every case. I feel that some of the speeches were even sharper. Ladies and gentlemen! In this matter that we have right now, we really need to work together. Indeed, as in the most difficult times, strong leadership and joint action are needed. To conclude with what I am saying now, with a question, I wanted to ask the Minister of Health about the data that the Prime Minister was talking about here, relating to further purchases, measures to equip ourselves with protective measures in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Then give me a field for consultation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u26	Thank you. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Even in such a serious situation - and the Prime Minister himself admitted that the situation is dramatic - you are practicing propaganda. You went out on the stand and said you were doing your best. Everything is best done by our country. It's just that there's still not as many tests as the doctors would expect. They're somewhere, but they're not really there. We keep hearing they're supposed to be there. Masks - we heard that the masks were sold when it was known that the crisis in our country was beginning. There's still no answer to those questions. How can we talk about trust, about how we can do something together when we still can't tell each other the truth? You say we have enough tests. The President of the National Bank of Poland says that we have great amounts of money, and Minister Gowin says that the state of the natural disaster cannot be implemented, because the state cannot bear it financially. Who's telling the truth? Who's telling the truth? Where are we? You, Prime Minister, are not responsible for the (Bingle) for the coritos, but you are responsible for how our country is prepared for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u28	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, the club of the Left. Mr Ajchler? I think it's the monitor. There's a delay. We don't have a connection to your envoy. We'll get back to that in a minute. No, wait, Mr. Marshal. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, a club of the Polish People's Party. Coalition Poland. Would you mind if the Prime Minister... Sir, take it easy. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? Mr. Marshal, I don't think this system is working. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Mr Grzegorz Braun is in the Chamber. Here you go, question. Time - 1 minute. This system isn't working. A great righteous man. He can tell anything about anybody. Mr President, please calm down. Mr. Marshal, there's a delay in the system's operation... Yes, but in the meantime, you can ask a question. One minute. It's 30 and 40 seconds late. Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u29	New normality. Maybe it's better: a new great normality. I hope that you, Prime Minister, feel these associations which necessarily come into being. Is this the moment when everyone will be happy: one ditches, one ditches, and the other fills them up, Prime Minister? Please get a little honesty towards the people, fellow citizens, countrymen, and inform us where this is going, which way the government of the Republic of Poland navigates if the government of the Republic of Poland even knows which way it navigates. What happens to what's in the background It's not dead, is it? I mean, older and smarter. They don't forget: 447, Defender 2020 maneuvers, cashless turnover - and the virus is a great pretext. These are your real goals, Prime Minister... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u30	Thank you. Now we will try to connect with Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club. Civic coalition, marshal. I think we should do it. break and repair the system. Members hear that you hear a voice, but you can't connect. Mr. Marshal, three people from the club report that they can't connect. Mr. Marshal, this system has gone bankrupt, just like our country. I'm sorry to say that. Look who's talking. I have to say, you're pathetic about what you're saying. Really. And you should be ashamed of words like that. Look who's talking. We don't have a connection... We have another person in the Chamber who is written to the floor - it is the Member - and then we will order a recess. Write this in the minutes: We have no connection - you said the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's Big Week, it's Big Monday, it's just before Christmas. It's okay to tell the truth this week. Seriously, this is the part where we shouldn't lie. And I say this to the Prime Minister: you should not lie when our country is in a big crisis when you lock people in their homes when you close shops, parks, streets and cemeteries. Unfortunately, you're shutting these places down because we're not prepared for this big pandemic. And we're unprepared because you just didn't want to deal with it before. You're a banker, and unfortunately you can hear it in every word you say. All the help you want to give is to go through the banks. And people ask: Where's the money? Why can't companies get the money, just get the banks? Why should people pay taxes when they don't have income? This is a tragedy. People cry at home because they lose their jobs and you smile. Don't do this. Really, help people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u32	We will now try to connect with Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, who is in the Sejm in one of the rooms. You're welcome. Let's check the quorum. Formal request for verification of quorum. Sir, take it easy. Sit down, will you? Formal conclusion. Now you don't have... You haven't filed a formal application. Mr. Marshal, if you have to, two people will come out, and the ladies will come. We can change. Okay. It's a formal motion to even be allowed to sit... or on tablets... Sit down and measure the fever. Have a seat. Check it out. Yes, of course. We're here. We can switch, too. Yes, you're welcome. Mr. Marshal, let the men in. No, no. We can let as many people in as he's here right now. They're gonna exchange. Yes, sir. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u33	Ladies and gentlemen! We have a situation where the government, knowing what is going to happen, has not prepared Poland or Poles for the epidemic since January. That's why he's playing on time. This game on time requires the implementation of strict regulations that have been issued concerning leaving home, work and other solutions. All right, we gotta save ourselves. And if it weren't for the great attitude of Poles, it wouldn't have worked. But let's look at the statistics after all. There are currently 4102 cases of disease detected. Three days earlier, there were 2964 of them. This means an increase in 3 days by 39%, almost 40%. If the number of infections grows at this rate, it will mean that on May 10th there will be over 150,000. sick. Poles are willing to sacrifice. They lose their jobs, they lose their income, they lose their companies. On the other hand, the government is not willing to make any sacrifices, it does everything to maintain power. Inconclusively: the election of 10 May means the spread of the epidemic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, a situation where many of us are going to get sick and die.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u34	Thank you very much. You haven't been able to formulate a question. Ms Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition, has the floor now. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u35	High Izbo! Prime Minister! Art. 233 of the Constitution explicitly states that it is possible to limit fundamental civil or economic freedoms and others only as a result of the introduction of an emergency state, one of the three emergency states. However, your government has introduced far-reaching restrictions on freedom by ordinary laws and regulations since 2 March. Is it true that you are thus breaking the constitution? Is it true that you are thus trying not only to maintain the May date of the presidential election but also to avoid the obligation to pay compensation which guarantees a constitutional order for citizens and citizens? Is it finally true that you are thus putting the Treasury at risk of suing for much higher amounts? This is not only about compensation for losses, but also, on the basis of the Civil Code, about equalizing all the benefits lost as a result of the implementation of the unconstitutional decisions of your government. Will the Treasury, Prime Minister, be able to bear the burden of these damages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u36	Thank you very much. Now, please, Mr Zgorzelski, who will speak instead of Mrs Chasing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u37	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! On 7 February, during the session of the Senate Committee on Health - a transcript can be used - both the Deputy Minister of Health and the Chief Health Inspector assured that hospitals were prepared to fight this sneaky virus. They also assured that it was a harmless virus and that the WHO recommendations do not include in the group of countries threatened by Poland. At the same time on 7 February, the Material Reserve Agency disposed of 62 thousand. Full-face masks. How does this show the state of preparation for our country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more sentence for Prime Minister Glinski. Thank you very much, Marshal. One sentence, if you don't mind. Today, Prime Minister Glinski insulted a Member of the Confederation by calling him a boy. He excludes us from the community by saying that we have nothing to do with Poland. Those are disgraceful words, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much. I'd like you to react. You'll soon be ruled out by the nation. [[Applause]] He sent me to Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u38	Mr Romuald Aichler, the Left Club. Do we have a call? Is the script gone? It's improvisation now. For the record, for the second time, Mr. Marshal says we have no connection. Do we have a Member in the Chamber who will ask a question? Here you go, in a minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister, you have said so much that Poland is extremely good at dealing with the pandemic of Coronavirus that it is able to control the disease. Poland is simply flowing with milk and honey. So I ask, that's why you are still unable to lean on the problems of Poles and Poles, why can't you understand that people are given notice every day, and your shield is a zero solution against the pandemic of Coronavirus. Your crazy plan to maintain power at the cost of health and life of Poles and Poles is a sick idea. When will you finally listen to the reason of the Left and understand that the solutions that Krzysztof Gawkowski referred to are concrete, substantive solutions? We want to work together. Let's start talking. When are you finally going to decide on the official introduction of the natural disaster and the real help of businesses and workers?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u40	Thank you very much. We've got another person to take the floor. Mr. Marshal, there are Members in the Sejm who could... Yeah, they're coming in now. You're welcome, yes. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The left is characterized by the fact that it works instead of just speaking. While the state in the camp of the United Right is pushing, who is more important: Jarosław Kaczyński or Jarosław Gowin, we receive tens every day, if not hundreds, calls from people who lose money because they lose their jobs. It is lost because, for 15 years, no government - neither the Civic Platform nor the PSL, nor the Law and Justice - has dealt with the problem of garbage contracts. Today, not only restaurant workers, not only gastronomy and tourism workers suffer from junk work, but also medical rescuers, or heroes, who today put their lives and health at risk. If they're quarantined today, they're not sure they're gonna get paid. Why? Because you haven't done anything in years of prosperity to help them secure them. You're not doing it today, either, on the day of the crisis. In the next version so-called. We're not gonna find anything that's addressed to people working on trash contracts. Why are you once again ignoring a few million people? Why doesn't he care... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Lies. Those are lies. Minimum wage for those who don't work...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u42	Your time is up, my fellow Member. Are there any other Members from the Platform who will ask the question? They're here. Yeah, so we're just gonna wait a little longer. PSL only reported one Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That question has already been asked, sir. But there are two places. But you only reported one person. To Mrs Agnieszka Chasing... Yes, and Mr. Marshal followed her. We've reported three people, but we don't know if there's gonna be a connection yet. Two, from what I can see. There were three reports. I'm sure it's three. Yeah, three? Okay. Well, if there were three, that's fine. Yes, there are three, you're right. Mr. Marshal, are there any connections or not? This is Mr Sienkiewicz, the Civic Platform for the time being. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wish I could ask you this question directly, but I just wanted to ask you one thing. When the Prime Minister wishes to inform your political patron and leader of the ruling group, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, that this crisis is not a crisis of recession, it is an existential crisis of the entire country and the Polish nation, that the result may not be so much a recession as the loss of 30 years of work of the generation, a whole generation of Poles building independent Poland and the economy in Poland? The situation in which this becomes the subject of a political game must not be allowed. When you finally realize to Jarosław Kaczyński that his plans for election, maintenance at all costs of power are plans to destroy (the bell) actually... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u44	Thank you very much, sir. We have another Member of the Civic Platform and yet a Left. One more. That's it. Mr. Marshal, formal motion. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish with a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Security requires responsibility. Security requires cooperation and diligence. In order for Poles to have a sense of security and feel truly safe, it is necessary to introduce a pact of solidarity between the opposition and the government, between the government and the opposition - in order to draw up action plans for the coming months, so that Poles know what will happen next week, in 2, in 3 weeks, when they return to business, when they return to school, what about final exams or graduations. You can't just leave it at the last minute. This solidarity pact outlines options: more optimistic, more difficult, one which is the most real, the government should present together with the opposition. Today, I call on Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to the solidarity pact, and I call on the parliamentary majority. I expect a solidarity pact... (BELL RINGING) [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u46	Thank you very much. We have another Member of the Platform. We have three more questions for the Platform and one left. Please, Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u47	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! No decent government in a pandemic raises taxes. Meanwhile, we hear from the Prime Minister the announcement of the next three, even four taxes, which the Prime Minister wants to introduce. After all, in the end it will burden us, consumers, and companies that operate not only in the Polish market but also in the European market in the whole system. It's just obscene. Secondly, just a few months ago you talked about the fact that the whole of Europe is jealous of our economic growth, of everything that is the domain of the work of millions of Polish companies. Today, however, it is the Polish entrepreneurs who envy Europe's support system. How is it possible that the German company can receive after 3 days of registration 15 thousand. The euro and the company over 10 employees will receive virtually no state aid? I'm asking these questions because it's about decency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u48	Thank you very much. Another Member - Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is the moment when people deserve the truth. This is the moment when you have to tell people that maybe today providence has spared us, maybe this virus hasn't crawled through the country as some people expected. But tomorrow, the day after tomorrow could be different, there could be thousands of sick people, a lot of people could die. Poles should hear this and should know exactly what the government does every day. And that's why my question is exactly how the government works. Where are the anti-crisis headquarters? Are there doctors in these staffs? Who listens to doctors today? In what way do they make decisions? What happens to reporting sick and dying? What is the mode of providing this information? When Poles face such a tragedy, the only answer they can hear is full truth and precision. They need to make sure that if the minister calls them, the minister of government says, not a participant in one or the other political party (the bell), which is conjuring... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have two questions. The first is for pupils. We're gonna have eighth grade exams soon, and then we're gonna have high school exams. But isn't the government simply going to decide to extend the deadline or move these exams to a later period? Because in an online system, you can't learn the way it should be. My second question concerns the town of Krotoszyn. Well, Mr. Marshal, in my Wielkopolska voivodeship, a hospital is now closed in the county city, a police station is closed. This town is left alone, actually without any help. How do you want to help such towns? Don't you anticipate, let's assume - as we have introduced today 2 hours, when only pensioners can be shopping - that, for example, doctors who go shopping and want to do it quickly, be served outside the order? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u52	Thank you. There's another question for the Civic Platform. Mr Jan Grabiec. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u53	High Seym! Prime Minister! The questions we are asking today are asked by Poles, who have been watching for two months how the epidemic first appeared in Europe, then in Poland. They ask simple questions. They ask questions as to why there is no access to the Coronavirus test, why people who suspect that they might have come into contact with infected people cannot examine why doctors, nurses, health care workers, rescuers, why they have no means of protection, no masks, no aprons, why you couldn't do it. You could look for answers in your statements two years ago, in the statements of Minister Szumowski, who two months ago, when he was skiing with President Andrzej Duda, said that he was happy to rest, because there is not much work in the ministry. The answers can be found in the decisions (the bell) of your politicians... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u54	Thank you very much, sir. That's where we close the list of requests for questions. The Minister of Health Mr Łukasz Szumowski now has the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your concern. I would like to say that the rumors of my extreme exhaustion are premature and untested. I don't recall saying that I haven't had much work at the Ministry of Health. As a living man, I think I'd have to be extremely exhausted if I said something like that. Ladies and gentlemen! There were questions about specifics here, apart from very emotional statements, which actually did not raise specific questions. I would like to say that there are now nearly 1800 patients in single name infectious hospitals, at more than 10,000. Beds, 107 patients are connected to ventilators. In infectious hospitals and single-name hospitals, we have about 1,500 ventilators. Currently more than 4100 people are infected, already 4200. If we hadn't introduced those restrictions you're talking about, about movement, isolation, today would have been 16,5,000, according to the predictions. patients diagnosed, infected. That's the scale, that's the difference. You asked about the tests. We have over 85,000 made at the moment. tests, i.e. over 2200 out of 1 million inhabitants and out of 4 000. Infected. I'm putting it on. We are in the forefront of the Peleton of the countries that were at this stage of the epidemic, I repeat. You asked me how we test. Of course, I'm going to say it again, because you may not be watching the media, perhaps you're not listening to the speeches in different stations, that medical people have priority in testing. Any physician suspected As regards contact with the coronavirus and the high probability of this, it has the right on the first line to test and to so-called. The fast track. We're testing about 8,000. people per day. The potential of laboratories allows testing up to 13.5 thousand. people per day. There are 49 labs working today. In recent days, I have asked the President of the National Health Fund to start paying for all the tests in all the hospitals for patients and staff, which will further increase the testing potential. Why aren't all possibilities still being exploited? Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Health, I do not order tests, they are commissioned by doctors, commissioned by health inspectors. They ordered $8,000. Any person suspected As for the virus, she should have a test done. As you can see, we still have some supplies. Of course, they will shrink rapidly if we do not pass new tests, and of course we do. Like the Prime Minister said, we have 800,000. contracted tests, 150,000. It's distributed to labs, 170 grand. He's on Polish soil. Nobody says that health care in Poland is milk and honey flowing, that would be absurd and would be unjustified, but we say that we are doing 8,000. tests a day, we say we're fighting for personal protective equipment, we say we delivered over 7 million masks last week, over 2.5 million gloves, 500,000. Hep masks and 400,000. And the disinfectant. That's what we're saying because it's a fact, it's hard to argue with. We also say that we have contracted 31 million more masks, 28 million hepa masks and 14 million gloves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That means concrete action. And that doesn't mean it's fantastic, no. It just means that we're fighting in markets all over the world to buy these masks. You also asked about the question of testing. If the percentage of positive tests in Israel is 7.5% , in Germany 7% in the UK 20%, it is in Poland about 5%. This shows that our numbers of tests certainly do not differ in this bad sense of the word. I'd like to give you another piece of information. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps arechina is a medicine that supports the treatment of Coronavirus. You've been asking me about specifics again. In Poland we have 85 thousand. packaging, at the end of April we will have 200,000 available. packaging and 1 million packages in June. Fortunately, there is a drug that is in Poland. There were also questions about DPS security. They've been assigned and sent masks and personal protective equipment to the voivodships. Voivodeship will be these masks and this personal protective equipment will be distributed, also to DPS. Ladies and gentlemen! That's pretty specific information and numbers. Of course they can be checked, but as I said, we are trying to deliver personal protective equipment as much as we can, and we will continue to do so. We already deliver not only to emergency hospitals, but also to all hospitals in Poland, POZ, pharmacies, as well as to other units such as DPS, via voivodships. Of course, it's hard. We know we're fighting for this personal protective equipment all over the world. You read, you hear in the media how sometimes there's a drastic fight about which country accepts which transport. For now, these transports to Poland will go and they will go, and as soon as we receive them, we will pass them on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 12.20. I would like to inform you that then the vote will take place. Anything specific, Mr. Marshal? I don't know. Please record, Mr. Marshal said I don't know. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 51 hrs. 12 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote and, as before each meeting - especially when there are votes - we will determine whether there is a quorum. I will ask all of you to press whatever button you want to establish a quorum. Please press the button. Let me remind you that we are establishing a quorum, which means we are pressing whatever button it is. A little longer we must wait for the signal to reach all your Members. Thank you very much, and I'm asking you to give me the results. 427 Members are taking part in the deliberations, i.e. the quorum. A formal request to adjourn the sitting has been submitted. We are voting on this proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 219 - for, 230 - against, abstained 1. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on: the epidemiological situation related to the spread of Coronavirus in Poland. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the epidemiological situation associated with the spread of Coronavirus in Poland, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 219-- for, 237-- against, no one held back. I conclude that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore accepted the information. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for the selection of a candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The opinion is in print No 317. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and the application of the clause referred to in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 (2) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection. I hear an objection, sir. Formal conclusion. In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. A formal application has already been submitted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the time limits referred to in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and paragraph 1. 9 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 232, 222 - against, 1 abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. Formal proposal, Mr Grzegorz Braun. There you go. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u57	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal conclusion. I would like to ask for a change in the way the vote is carried out from disabled to fit. I keep getting information about the connection issues. When you didn't take this honorable place, Marshal Terlecki, as I noted, said two or three times to the microphone, it should be in the protocol: we have no connection... But not in the event of a vote. Not in the case of a vote, sir. ...so there are technical problems that make the illusory version that we are taking part in plenary sessions and that everyone can vote with equal efficiency and conformity with their conscience. Bring order in this matter, Your Majesty Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u58	Of course, this was not a formal proposal, Mr President. Formal request for a change in the way the vote is conducted. Mr. Marshal Terlecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u59	Mr President, this lack of connection only concerned a visual link with Members who spoke in the discussion. It was not a vote. Therefore, this conclusion is completely unfounded. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But that excluded them from the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u60	Thank you very much. I'm ending this discussion, ladies and gentlemen. It's true there was a problem with the video connection. The glitch has been repaired. On the other hand, the voting system is a completely different system. There's been a formal motion. That was 100%. formal application. No, it wasn't exactly a formal conclusion. If you wish to submit your application correctly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please put it in writing, Mr President. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints 316 and 317). On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Bartłomiej Sochański as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present this candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present your candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court, Mr Bartholomew Sochański. Bartłomiej Sochański - born 11 February 1955 in Szczecin. He's been a lawyer and counsel for nearly 40 years. Graduate of the Faculty of Law and Administration of Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań. In 1981, he was appointed legal counsel, and in 1986, 1987 he was deputy dean of the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Szczecin. Since 1987 he has been a lawyer, currently in the law firm of Sochański and Osiński in Szczecin. For many years, he was a delegate to the National Lawyer's Meeting. In the 1980s, he was an activist of the NSZZ.Solidarity. At war he was a defender in political trials, advisor to underground union structures. After 1990, he was a lawyer intern in the UK, Canada and Denmark. He specializes in human rights, European law, criminal law, economic law. He was one of the representatives of the Katyn families in a dispute against the Russian Federation before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In 2016, the founder and president of the Szczecin Law Dialogue Society, associations of practicing lawyers, lawyers and legal advisers aimed at restoring social trust in legal circles. In addition to his professional activities, Mr Bartłomiej Sochański was the president of Szczecin in 1994 and 1998, a longtime councillor of the City Council of Szczecin, Vice President of the Baltic Cities Association and Vice President of the European Border Regions Association. Between 2001 and 2018, he served as the Honorary Consul of the Federal Republic of Germany in Szczecin. Sochański was an expert at the Council of Europe on city security. In 2004 he was awarded the Golden Cross of Merit by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the same year he was awarded the title of patron of Szczecin Culture. In 2006, he won the Bona Lex Award for Best Lawyers. In 2010, on the 40th anniversary of December 1970, he received a silver medal from the Minister of Justice. In 2015, he was honoured by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany with the Cross of Merit in the Vast. Both distinguished legal knowledge and extensive scientific and professional experience in the field of law indicate that Mr Bartłomiej Sochański is a good candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u62	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an opinion on the proposal for the election of Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, in print no. 316 and 317. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 2 April 2020 for an opinion. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, following the examination of this proposal at its meeting on 6 April 2020, and the discussion, decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Bartłomiej Sochański's candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u64	Thank you, sir. Members have come forward to take the floor on the proposed candidacy. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Please take the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u65	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We count the dead today in hundreds, we count the sick today in thousands. People who lose their jobs, their source of income, we're counting in hundreds of thousands today, and we're probably gonna be counting in millions soon. And what does PiS do at the time? At the same time as the whole world is fighting the Cortipinus epidemic, PiS is engaged in filling jobs and positions in an institution that used to be the Constitutional Tribunal. High Izbo! I would really like to appeal now to Members of the PiS: do not waste time. Doctors, nurses, paramedics are now fighting for human health and life. They often don't have gloves, they don't have masks, they don't have tests, they don't have ventilators. People are losing jobs, sources of income. They're bankrupting companies. Let's get to the point. And what are the PiS Members doing at the time? Putting on more jobs, positions, expanding its power in the shadow of an epidemic, which is one of the worst epidemics and is now passing through the world. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Let's take a look at who PiS wants to go to the Constitutional Court under the cover of the epidemic. What stands out for Mr. Sochański? What about legal knowledge? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But it is definitely distinguished by the party ID of the PiS, already since 2017. And a year later, he was a PiS candidate for President Szczecin. Even now, at the time of the vote, he'll be a member of the PiS. And once again, the decisive criterion will not be the distinctive legal knowledge, but there will be party loyalty. And what effectively increases party loyalty? What strengthens the loyalty of the PiS candidates to the party? Of course, the positions in the Treasury companies and the money they earned. Well, Mr Sochański, as we learn from widely available sources, is among others. Member of the Supervisory Board of the Polish Securities Printing Works. To whom will the faithful Mr. Sochański be? Constitution? Or was it PiS, a party that held an exposed position, or held an exposed position, in one of the companies of the Treasury? How much did Mr. Sochański make in the Treasury companies over the last five years? How much? High Izbo! All this indicates that the PiS proposes another party soldier to the Constitutional Court and thus more and more turns the tribunal into political barracks for retired PiS activists from different levels. We're not gonna lay a hand on that. We're not gonna put our hands in your fight for jobs, stools, expanding power in the shadow of the worst epidemic in the world. [[Applause]] Don't yell, woman. Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u66	Thank you, Member. Here you are, Anna Maria Żukowska, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Bartłomiej Sochański's candidacy raises our big reservations - for a simple reason: he occupies the place for which Judge Roman Hauser, Andrzej Jakubecki and Krzysztof Ślebzak are waiting. These are the Members who have been legally elected. Now every person who is elected, while these judges are waiting for the appointment of President Andrzej Duda - by the way, I will add that the Left has submitted a bill enabling these judges to take their vows before the Marshal of the Sejm or the Marshal of the Senate - to be another judge under the double, will delegate for the second time the Constitutional Tribunal, as Mrs Przyłębska, Mrs Pawłowicz or Mr Piotrowicz do. Question, High Izbo: What are we even doing right now? We are dealing with a choice for a tribunal which at the moment does not rule, for which it is not really a big problem, that there is one vacancy. In fact, like I said, three people are waiting. We deal with this at a time when there is an epidemic, when we should adopt laws that will help people, not party figures, who are still members of the Law and Justice. Unfortunately, Counselor did not answer my question about a case that might happen. He knows perfectly well that the Law and Justice want to get past the state of the natural disaster and the necessity of introducing it. And it is necessary because people are dying, that more and more people are infected, that there are no doctors in social services, and nurses are also sick. And at this point, we're in charge of filling positions in the Party Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, I have great doubts about the impartiality of your patron, who, as my previous speaker said, is connected by a very large network of financial links with the Treasury companies, as well as with the very party governed by Law and Justice, which is still a member. Therefore, the parliamentary club of the Left will not support this candidacy, nor will it support any candidacy that will be presented to the place of the judges I have mentioned who have been legally elected and are waiting for the appointment. High Izbo! I have an appeal to all of you: let us deal with solutions that will save jobs that will stop this crisis coming, reduce its impact on people, above all people at work, people who are currently losing this job as a result of bankruptcy (the bell), because every day several dozen companies are bankrupt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u68	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Wheel of the Confederation of Parliament. Marshal, I also wanted to. No, no. But please, please, Mr. Marshal. No, sir. But I'm asking for the order I asked for. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u69	Force majeure, Marshal. God bless you again! Well, you've got a bunch of staff. Veterans of the Mummy of Freedom - to the Constitutional Court... The adult who entered this formation must have been burdened with a deficit - either moral or intellectual. Collaboration with this formation, which in due time is the extension of this central center of disinformation and depraving Poles, which was and remains - no longer on this scale - of course - the newspaper, the star of death from the street. Czerska, a political formation which was an extension of this formation - this is not a pedigree that would predispose anyone to be one of the guardians of constitutional law in the Republic of Poland. And the consul of the Federal Republic of Germany? You can see: checked, seasoned in battles, he got a cross - one that rarely gets non-Germany in Berlin. Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of procedural caution, let's agree that we will find someone who hasn't been through any foreign country's clearing procedures. Although maybe it's hard for you guys. That's what I'm looking at, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, isn't it, the Union of Freedom? I hope you're... To the point, sir, please. What are you asking, Marshal? Let's get to the point, sir. Get to the point. What are you asking, Marshal? About what you're hearing. Get to the point. Will your marshal be here as a stylist dictating Members, on what subject, and how should they speak? Is this the rule book, Marshal? Yeah, it's a rule book. Will there be such an expectation that the Marshal will present to you the lyrics of the performances of this tribune for the review? I don't think it's in the rules, so please hold off, too, okay? - its natural tendency to defend party colleagues. But you don't have to protect anyone from me, I don't throw myself down my throat. So reach out to your party staff and find someone who didn't enjoy the trust of Bronisław Geremek or Adam Michnik or the trust of the Federal Government of Germany. Find somebody out there. I only ask that it be not again someone who in other respects will be exhausting, as to say, the reality of the system structure, which I described as the Russian-German condominium under the Jewish Trust Board years ago, which, of course, in this term needs to be extended and said: the Jewish-American Trust Board. Find a candidate, introduce him in normal mode, give yourself time to do so, and then we'll think about whether or not to support this candidacy. In the meantime, we can't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u70	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that today we should not be concerned with the election of another judge of the Constitutional Court, an institution which has long lost the quality of another element in the constitutional system, because through its institutional pauperisation it has lost its capacity to perform constitutional functions. The decline in social confidence is measured by the number of citizens' complaints submitted to the Constitutional Court, the tribunal that was attacked, that only 173 decisions were issued in 2015. However, in 2018 it had already released only 72. At that time, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were called by the politicians of the current governing party, and the meetings of the Constitutional Tribunal were referred to as meetings at cookies and coffee. How can one define what is wrongly called the Constitutional Tribunal today if Krystyna Pawłowicz and Stanisław Piotrowski joined the pantheon of the stars? Today we have another installment: another candidacy from the political camp and without hiding it at all. Today, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning, we should not be dealing with these matters because hundreds of companies are bankrupt every day, thousands of our countrymen lose their jobs every day. Instead of spending every minute of this debate so that we can create a system of assistance and this hole shield to fill in the substantive content, today we are standing in the High House to discuss another candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, will gain a parliamentary majority and the candidate will be elected. But, as I said at the beginning, can those sitting there have the quality of a judge, and is this institution still worthy of the name of the Constitutional Tribunal? That is why our club, for the reasons that I said earlier, but also because of the shortcomings that we see in your patron's candidacy, will vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u72	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. May I speak, Marshal? Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In what mode? As a representative of the club. As you've noticed, our representative hasn't been here so far. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, we should say a few words about this extraordinary simply demagoguey that we have been dealing with here. All these stories that taking half an hour or an hour to elect a representative of Law and Justice, but a representative of Law and Justice in the same sense as other parties, and in particular the Civic Platform, were all judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of the previous term of office... It's never been like this. That's exactly what happened. Never. That's what this demagogy is all about, because on the one hand, there's no waste of time here, because this waste of time is just fiction. At the moment, there is no way to work on other matters, and those that will be used today. And I repeat: shame just to practice this kind of demagoguey. Secondly, the composition of the current Constitutional Court is, first, completely legal. Those who were elected during the term of office of 2011 and 2015 at the end of this term were elected on parole because it was not known when the President would convene the first session of the Sejm, or whether this would not be the moment when all the terms of office of all these judges would end. In short, it was an unforeseen mode in the Constitution. This choice was completely unlawful from the very beginning, without legal significance. And I want you to remember that. Everything we did later was completely legal. And the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, taken without any procedure, was a decision on the value of a piece of paper. It is simply that no such decision outside the procedure has any legal meaning. And I would like it to be said very clearly in the end, because the constant repetition of some understudy judges is just an abuse, a serious abuse, that's cheating public opinion. And I'm going back to that first case again. You have chosen Members, you have chosen citizens of the Civic Platform or before the Democratic Union - and it happens that some of them I have even personally known, even together we have been working in the Helsinki underground Committee, but they have been clearly on your side - and that was fine. Now you don't like it, because the tribunal, which is actually very pluralistic (The Bell), is not what you want. This isn't a tribunal. Yes, this is a tribunal. And then, in those past days, you'd have doubts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u74	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Mr Bartłomiej Sochański's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Bartholomew Sochański as judge of the Constitutional Court will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 234 for, 223 against, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has elected Mr Bartłomiej Sochański as Judge of the Constitutional Court by a majority. The formal proposal was made by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition. Please, one minute. There you go, sir, one minute. You filed a formal motion. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing important things for Poles, but certainly not the appointment of a new judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is what you spent many minutes on, and when it was time for parliamentarians to ask questions, your system failed. Therefore, taking the opportunity that your marshal has allowed me to speak, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is aware that 184 patients, 102 of them, are already in one hospital in my home town, in Radom. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! What are you gonna do about it? How will you help my city? What will you offer for Radom, for Grajec and for the New Town of Pilica? The question is also very important, essential: Have you had, and are you aware, that today the most important thing is medical examination? Because they're medics, misremunerated doctors working for a few jobs, who have to earn money for their families, and they're spreading Coronavirus today. Dear Marshal! I would therefore like to ask you formally to change the way in which we proceed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u76	Thank you, sir. This proposal has already been tabled and I will therefore not put it back to the vote. The group of Members submitted a draft law on specific rules for conducting correspondence voting in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020, prints No 314 and 314-A. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to complete the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for conducting correspondence voting in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020, prints No 314 and 314-A, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 228 - for, 228 - against, abstained 3. The conclusion was not received by the majority. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Oh... Bravo! I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow. 15. Bravo! Bravo! There's no forgery. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 17 hours 18 min 45]] Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering into a quorum. Members reported that they did not have enough time to log in at the first vote, so we will wait for all Members to log in. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all Members present here in the Chamber, in other rooms and outside the Sejm building to press any button to verify the quorum. And we're gonna wait, ladies and gentlemen, a little longer for you to log in, because I hear there are the biggest problems with that at the first vote. Please press any button. Thank you, and I'm asking you to give me the results. The meeting shall be attended by 458 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. With the formal conclusions of Mr Krzysztof Smishek. There you go. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request that the session of the Sejm be adjourned and that the Convention of Seniors be convened to complete the agenda of our deliberations on the draft laws that Poles and Poles need, among others. for a bill aimed at protecting the jobs that the Left has put forward. Mrs. Marshal! We are watched by millions of Poles in which rebellion grows. We, the Left, will look at your hands, at your mischief, at your inability to help Poles. That's why we're launching the white book, the white book of wickedness and the piss-off. I encourage all Poles to submit their comments and their problems in this book - bialaksiega.klublewica. en. You have to look at your hands, you have to note how badly you help Poles, how you deal with choices that nobody cares about, and you do not deal with the real problems of Poles when they lose their jobs, when they are afraid for their family tomorrow and about their companies tomorrow. Just get on with your work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u78	Thank you, sir. I would therefore like to explain this because this is the second time that this information has been received. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at the meetings of the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors' Convention both this morning and half an hour ago, we have made it clear - perhaps this information has not reached you - that all your projects you have submitted will be considered. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Convention, I made it clear - and you all knew that - and the Bureau and the Convention - that we were waiting for the legal opinions that passed today, part of the afternoon. As a result, it has been decided that the government project we are waiting for, Mr, which was due to impact on Sunday, but because it is a comprehensive and very important project, tomorrow the Council of Ministers will make changes to it... I said that we would consider this project together with the PSL project, which also concerns taxes, so it has to be read in plenary and the others go to committee. So don't tell me we're not doing these projects because we're gonna be doing this, but... We're supposed to be doing this, but we're not doing this. Mr President, for this reason, which I have been talking about. We have been waiting for legal opinions and these legal opinions for these parliamentary projects received in the afternoon. Everything is therefore in line with the timetable that all the Bureau and the Convention knew about. I therefore urge you to give this information to your Members. Since the request for a recess has been made, I will announce this recess, and I will not call the Convention, Mr President, because it was just a moment ago that the Convention took place. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal, is this how we're gonna wait for the MPs? That's very kind of you, but it's too bad you're waiting for the PiS. 458 Members voted. 219 for, 237 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Formal proposal - Mr Boris Budka. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What is happening in Parliament today, here in the Seym, is once again your true face. You lost the vote, so you're trying to force another bill, but you're showing that you're gonna do exactly the same thing with the choices you're gonna lose. That's what this bill is supposed to do to protect you from losing. Just now, your marshal spoke of the need for legal opinions prepared for opposition projects. I request a break and a presentation to the Seniors Convention of legal opinions on the compatibility of your draft law, which you filed a few hours ago, with the constitution, that is, the opinion of the Legislative Commission, and with European law, that is, the opinion of the European Union Committee on Affairs. Start taking Poles seriously. We're losing another day for your game. Really, you live in a different world. You have so looked at this hatred, this desire for power (the bell) that you have forgotten what Poles live for. Your marshal, your legal opinion, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u80	Thank you very much. We have the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office in mind, and that is the opinion, sir. Where, Marshal? Where's the opinion? We would like to ask you to deliver this opinion. You will receive it in a moment. A group of Members submitted... Oh, and Mr Grzegorz Braun, a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would therefore like to ask you to postpone this session until you come to your senses and introduce us, for example. that opinion, which I understand is in your possession, but remains undisclosed so far. I think, however, that throwing into the system a change of law as important as the electoral law - not for us who are not superstitiously believing democrats, but for you, most of you, honourable democratic worshipers - with a plan to vote everything out at first reading, a second reading before midnight, are really jokes that cannot end well. I therefore ask you to postpone (the bell) of the sitting and provide us with a legal opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u82	Thank you, sir. A formal request for adjournment has been made. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 224 - for, 234 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The group of Members submitted a draft law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020, print No 328. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to complete the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Your marshal, may I make a formal request? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the special rules for conducting the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020, print No 328, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Your Marshal, this project is being conducted in a special way and we would like to justify our opposition to this. Where are those opinions, Marshal? You have your opinions in the information system of the Sejm when printing. I would like to ask the marshal to allow his objection to be justified, why this project should not be prosecuted today. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, that opinion that BAS presented, that's a joke. They've described what's in the bill. There's no opinion. Have you read it, Marshal? This is unfortunately a disgrace... Your marshal, your marshal said there were opinions for this project... Your Marshal, but this is a mockery of you. You're mocking yourself by making such an opinion. These are changes that can... This code introduces for you, your marshal, the possibility of moving elections, which is against the constitution. That's your responsibility, Marshal. Don't you really care? Your marshal, you're a historian. 459 Members voted. 230 for, 227 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 (print No 328). I ask Mr Krzysztof Sobolewski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the applicants, I would like to present a draft law on specific rules for conducting the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020, the printing of Seym No 328. High Izbo! The primary duty of the State is to enable all entitled citizens of the Republic of Poland to participate in the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. Taking into account the prevailing conditions of the world pandemic and restrictions on movement, it is necessary to create an appropriate mechanism for this. Such a mechanism is the dissemination of voting procedures for correspondence, which also assumes the draft of this law. This draft foresees that in the elections for the President of the Republic of Poland which were ordered in 2020 the correspondence vote will be the only way to vote. The project does not recognise any electoral rights, does not impose additional regimes, but merely makes it easier for citizens to exercise their constitutional active electoral rights safely. The proposed project responds to the need to organise elections within a constitutional deadline, taking into account the current situation in the country related to the epidemic. This is a necessary response from the legislative authority to protect the health and life of Poles without restricting active electoral law. The proposed proposal assumes that each of the voters entitled to vote will receive their electoral package and will not be forced to go physically to the electoral seat. No one will have to submit any proposals, report the need for an electoral package or take any action to obtain a ballot. The State will ensure the delivery of electoral documents. The provider of the package will be responsible for the operator designated within the meaning of the Law of 23 November 2012 - Postal Law. Each vote shall be confirmed by an appropriate statement of voluntary and confidential voting. Next, voters will put their electoral documents in their mailboxes. This can be done with respect for the existing extraordinary rigours associated with the epidemic, i.e. it will be possible to put in an envelope votes by one member of the family, a close person, a guardian. The selected operator will also ensure the receipt of packages from boxes and their transport to the regional electoral committees for the purpose of the conversion of votes. Conducting the elections as a whole in the form of correspondence voting is not a novelty, but is something that is increasingly used in the world. Recently, we have already had a preliminary example in Bavaria, where the Bavarian Parliament also carried out an appropriate law in 2020 a few days before the vote. No major deficiencies were identified, with an electorate of over one million turnout of more than 50%. The changes introduced there adapting the fundamental legal regulations in terms of strengthening democracy were adopted in general consensus and understanding of extraordinary facts. The Bavarian authorities' requests for participation in the correspondence vote met with an understanding of the voters. Let me remind you that, quite recently, the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, today's Civic Coalition, have strongly advocated this form of election. It is worth recalling here, for example, the year 2013, where in the work on the introduction of the total... It's incomparable. Mr... I did it myself, I did it myself. Mr President, if I want to discuss this, I will ask you out. I would like to ask you to remain calm. There will be time for you and you will be able to speak. At the moment, the applicant shall have the floor. ... wherein these parliamentarians referred to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 July 2011 on the implementation of the total vote in correspondence, which assessed that the vote in correspondence was in line with the Constitution. Two years later, these arguments were referred to, while raising the fact that correspondence voting is implementing the principle of universality of electoral law. These arguments are even more relevant in view of the current situation and the adoption of subjective regulations is necessary in order to implement one of the primary principles of electoral law, i.e. principles of universality. Mailing choices? Of course I do. The correspondence vote will guarantee all Poles (the bell) that they will be able to participate in the elections. Whose words are these? These are the words of Mr Mariusz Witczak and Mr Mark Wójcik of 21 April 2015. This amendment is also fully in line with existing European Union law and the opinions of the Council of Europe. The Commission of the Council of Europe, the European Commission for Democracy by Law, the Venice Commission, in point 3.2.3 of Opinion No 190/2000 of the Code of Good Practice in Election Affairs stated that mail voting could be allowed where mail is safe and credible. Poczta Polska is an institution with undisputed achievements and traditions. It's not in this case. also concerns about breach of the confidentiality of voting. It should also be borne in mind that the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 20 July 2011 in its judgment of 20 July 2011. Against the background of the constitutionality of the correspondence vote, K 9/11 also commented on the general principle of the secrecy of the vote. He pointed out that for the voters, the secrecy of voting is a privilege that he can benefit from, although there is no obligation. Giving a public vote, unless it is a form of electoral agitation, does not involve any negative legal consequences for it. It is also voluntary to inform others of the content of the election decision, whether it takes place before or after the elections, without prejudice to the principle of secrecy of voting. This argument was upheld by the Supreme Court in its decision of 18 July 2019, examining one of the electoral protests. At this point, I would like to appeal to the High House to hold back the emotions, suspend the rigour of political warfare, put aside all prejudices and particular party interests. In an emergency situation, let us show that we can work together no worse than other nations for the benefit of citizens first, and also respect the fundamental principles of democracy. This is no time to push, disinformation, and barren disputes. All political forces should now focus on information policy, reaching out to citizens with reliable information, making them aware of their electoral rights. The widest possible participation in the elections, as high as the electoral turnout achieved without endangering the health and life of citizens, should be a common objective of the whole political class. There has been a situation associated with the outbreak of Coronavirus which forces many inconveniences and limitations on all. Poles can be a model of discipline for other nations struggling with this terrible plague. All the more reason for us politicians to set an example and not complain about the deterioration of the electoral campaign. It is a unique campaign - in the shadow of far more important matters, but with equal limitations for all candidates. Perhaps each of them would like to campaign differently, more actively, but as politicians we must set an example of self-discipline and adaptation to unpredictable extraordinary conditions. In view of the particular situation caused by the spreading coronavirus and the important interest of the State, it is necessary to enter into force immediately. It is worth adding that the Constitutional Tribunal, in its 2006 judgment, considered that changes, even important, in emergency situations, could be made during the legislative silence. It is difficult to imagine a situation more extraordinary, unexpected, and at the same time objective and imposing restrictions on everyone, both on the public administration and citizens, on the need to adapt to circumstances than the one we currently have. High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, please accept this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u84	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Member... Marshal, I'd like to make a request for a public hearing. It is the fundamental right of every Member to report it in the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, the conclusions after this point, okay? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're in the middle of... The request for a public hearing shall be made before... Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're in the middle of a discussion, so please, let's finish this. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Your Marshal, a request for a public hearing is made before the debate begins, following the explanatory statement, at first reading. But read the rules. It's in the committee meeting, not in plenary. If he's not on the committee, then he's in the meeting... I would like to ask you to return to your seat, sir. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Your marshal isn't a PiS marshal, he's a Sejm marshal, your marshal. The second person in the country, in a situation like this... Mr, Art. 70a paragraph. 1: A public hearing may be held with regard to the draft law. The decision to hold a public hearing shall be taken by the committee to which the draft is addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u85	But this is where time runs. Can you reset your time, Marshal? Mr Łukasz Schreiber. You're welcome. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is a difficult task for me, because it is a draft law, which is neither easy, nor cheerful, nor probably popular, as public opinion polls show. But we're in an unusual time. In times like this, you can't just run a hot water policy in the tap. You can't just make easy and popular decisions. In such times, responsible decisions must be made first, and only one must be guided by the rightness of the state. High Izbo! I would like, instead of discussing this project - this was done by the applicant - to refer to a few, I will not say: lies, I will say easier: fake the news that has grown around it. The first one is extremely mean, I have to say, because it shows that applicants only deal with the subject of elections. Well, High Izbo, I want to assure you that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the parliamentary majority chaired by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński today are primarily aimed at fighting for the health and life of Poles, aimed at fighting for jobs and fighting for Polish companies. This is our main task, and this project also serves, because this is also the protection of the health of Poles. Second fake news. I hear we don't want any compromise. High Izbo, after all, the compromise was on the table: it was a proposal which may have had its drawbacks, but it also had an undeniable advantage - the stabilisation of the situation, the proposal of Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. She was rejected. Third fake news. Nobody's making an election right now, and a correspondence vote is crazy. Well, High Izbo, the elections were held in Bavaria. This project provides for the implementation of this model. The elections will take place in mid-April in South Korea - a country that has been hit so hard by the pandemic of Coronavirus, and in polling stations. The elections will finally take place and take place in Switzerland, including through correspondence voting. Fourth fake news. Elections can be moved. High Izbo! The problem is clear. The elections cannot be moved, and this is what the constitution, which so many of you have been eager to invoke, is a constitution on behalf of which you have organized protests, waved it, carried out public readings of this constitution. Indeed, it makes it clear that these elections must take place on time. Why? High Izbo, so that no one in this constitutional term that has been given... Yes, the Marshal of the Sejm has the right to move it within certain limits, but that's all. Fifth fake news. A state of emergency as a remedy for all problems. But it's not a cure, High Izbo. A state of emergency is not introduced to postpone the election. This introduction of an emergency means that no elections can be held at this time, and that's all. I understand that it's for the comfortable part to happen, that every 30 days we'd meet here just to make a row about whether or not we'd move the election by another month. And within these 30 days, the state will be relieved of all work, from home only to give interviews, not to take responsibility for anything. This is not the attitude of brave people. The sixth fake news, the supposed electoral calculation of our political camp. One can say briefly: It is always easy to know a fool. He's the one who says he knows how the election ends. Well, we don't know that. We want this election to take place for one reason only, and only one calculation. We're haunted. It is a desire to stabilise the situation in the country, it is a desire that all of us, after these elections, whatever their outcome, together with the president of the newly elected people, can deal with only one thing and focus on and unite only for one thing: the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus. High Izbo! I ask and call for the crisis (The Bell), which is caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus, which is hitting health protection and the health and life of Poles who are hitting the economy, not to add to the third crisis: the constitutional crisis. I request and ask the High House to support this bill and to apply on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for an immediate transition to second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u86	Thank you, sir. Mr Boris Budka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, once again, you are playing a great fraud. For many days you have been deceiving Poles, claiming to be helping them, while day by day you are dealing with your wars. You take care of what you really care about, the maintenance of power at all costs. After all, it is odd that the representative of President Andrzej Duda's election committee is now the representative of the applicants. It's really about revenge to heaven calling for what you're doing. You don't have any shame. You cheated, you cheated, you cheated. You lost the vote today, you broke your spines, maybe blackmail, maybe a buy, to re-submit a bill like this. You don't have any shame. But it's gonna get back at you. It will be revenge that you do not want to talk about the important problems of Poles and Poles. You're going to get revenge for cheating, claiming, on the one hand, that elections can't be held, but on the other hand, they're going to try hard to spread this virus. You are Minister Szumowski, who speaks so much about the clause of conscience, about the Hippocratic oath. And you just voted to spread the virus. You voted against logic, contrary to common sense, but above all, elementary ethics send people sometimes even to death because you have no respect. You have no respect not only for those who think differently than you do, but also for your own voters, you have no respect for the fundamental principles Fair play games. Because when power falls, that's how it clings to it at all costs. I'm so ashamed of myself. I am in human shame that we are to sit in parliament with such people, people who are insensitive to the supplications of those who cry out for help today: mothers, fathers, entrepreneurs, workers. Another day you're losing to keep yourself in power. This is an embarrassing performance. This is an embarrassing spectacle of how this power rots from the inside, how you break each other's spines. Some of your colleagues recently said, "Next is impossible to make choices." So? You're gonna do it on the 17th? That's gonna be the big triumph? This is the beginning of your end. The Poles will not forget this. But above all, you will not be forgotten by those whose health and life you put at risk. This will not be forgotten by Polish Post employees. You won't be forgotten by those who have to count votes. It's all a big scam. Your narrative is based on deception. You cheat in the morning, noon and evening. You're cheating because power is the most important thing to you. Today you have become a completely foreign element to society, because you do not see the real needs of Poles, you do not even see that nearly 90% of people are afraid to vote. You every day for those 2 billion zlotys that could have been dedicated to health care, you sow propaganda and lies. You will now pretend to care about the health of Poles. Isn't it better to use these resources to protect health care? You don't have any shame. This power will end sooner or later, but people like you will become history. They will move on to this disgusting story, where by breaking consciences to those who may have had them, in the name of your own interest, you sacrifice the health and life of Poles. You're so sick of power, you can't see the obvious. According to the Polish constitution, elections can be postponed by introducing a state of emergency, but you will not because you know you will lose. And neither will you because you don't want to pay compensation. Suddenly it turns out that the budget is empty, the king is naked. And I'm gonna tell you honestly, when I watch these last few days, I'm so sorry. I am sorry that I have lived to see the times in which the parliamentary majority are hypocritical cynics, people who often refer to God, the interests of the nation, the right of the state, are created as saints, and are corrupt to the bones. Because what you're doing today shows your (Bingle) true corruption. I move that this project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u88	Thank you, sir. Your marshal, with a formal motion. About Mrs. Emilewicz's vote. No, no. Your marshal, with a formal motion. Not about Mrs. Emilewicz's vote. It's an important matter for proceding. Your Marshal, I would ask very much. I have the right as a Member to make a formal application. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I proceed to the presentation of the Left's position, I would first of all like to tell our fellow countrymen, who are now watching us through the media, that today is groundhog day. A few hours ago, the Sejm said no to the election debate. What do we have now? The election debate. Today the Sejm was chased by the PiS-ovska majority to a pointless conversation about the correspondence vote, not about support for you. We wasted another day. We're wasting priceless time. This Sejm hasn't adopted a proper solution to your problems in a week. But we're already working on another version of the election bill. The same Sejm a few days ago deprived Poles and Poles of the support that the Senate had developed for them. Yes, I want Poles and Poles to hear that PiS, rejecting the Senate's amendments, throw out help for workers and entrepreneurs in the basket. Instead, you agreed to spend billions on the banking system and insurance for priests. You can see the priorities of this power. You can see who the hero is to you. Tonight we're going to talk about elections instead of specifics. Don't you understand that no one cares about this election? No one. Don't you understand that you can't eat with a ballot that a ballot doesn't pay for gas or electricity bills? Your bill violates all the rules of decency. The fact that we're investigating this bill today is a spit in the face of our countrymen. The piss works according to the rule: don't they have bread? Give them an election and it'll be okay. At a time when dozens of other countries are calling off elections, you're playing with public money. How much are these choices gonna cost? Hundreds of millions of dollars that Poles and Poles need now. The next bill you're presenting is a mockery. A mockery of the constitution, a mockery of logic, a mockery of the citizens and a mockery of reason. In a few days, the anniversary of the Smolensk disaster. We all remember the last words from the cockpit: you can do it, you can fit. And today we have the same thing. Why are you lying? You can do it, vote. And then? And then it's gonna be okay. The important thing is that Andrzej Duda becomes president. Explain to me how you want to organize this election so that the mail workers are safe. Each mailman will be in contact with over 1,000. persons, and this is only in relation to the delivery of electoral packages, in addition to daily other duties. Or do you want to involve the military in the election? Beautiful pictures will go into the world: in Poland, the military is organizing elections. The bill, despite the misleading title, simply changes the electoral law. Let's get this straight. It should be proceded in the procedure provided for by the codes, with an emergency committee, with experts and appropriate deadlines. Most importantly, this bill changes the constitution. Of course, I realise that appealing to the government for respect for the law or constitution makes no sense. That is why I am addressing your sense of responsibility for the safety of the citizens. You are playing with the life and health of Poles. I warn you, your desire for power will make the elections of democracy turn you into dancing on coffins. The draft electoral regulations presented are neither regulations nor electoral ones. These are the rules of the primitive roulette, where democracy, life and health of Poles are at stake. Where is the six-month period for banning electoral proceedings before the elections? The new rules make the PKW only a passive observer of elections, the elections that will be organized for us - a global phenomenon - a government. I propose not to play the role of pretending to be a job in this House, but to assume in the proposal that we are all collecting our ballots in Nowogrodzka, and in particular that we are sending them there. They'll know what to do with those cards by now. Or better still, let's vote by text in this election. May I? Yes, you can. You can also run the line Ooh, ooh, ooh, After all, in the PiS state you can vote in any way you want. The important thing is to push Andrzej Duda back into the presidential chair. This election will be governed by the rule: whoever has the key to the box has the power. And that's pretty much where we'd end up if it wasn't for the election that no one cares about. Let me tell you something. Do you want Poland's Post to deliver 30 million ballots? So far, Poczta Polska is delivering millions of other letters every day: statements from work and calls for payment, because that is what reality looks like today outside the Parliament hall. Instead of counting votes, count those people who need help today. According to estimates, up to 0.5 million people have already lost their jobs because of the virus. The government should work day and night. And in fact, in Novgorodska for several days there have been night meetings of the most important politicians of PiS and the government, but they do not think and debate how to help Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're dragging the line between President Kaczyński and Prime Minister Gowin today. In conclusion, I would like to say one more thing: you are in charge, you decide what this House is going to do on a given day. And that's why everyone who gets fired from work, every closed company, every unnecessary case of infection, and every death that could have been avoided, is burdened with your conscience. Thank you very much, sir. I'm filing a motion to reject the project in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u90	Thank you, sir. May I ask for this request, sir? The motion for rejection. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a fixer of power, a power that has broken away from the citizen, a power that has broken away from the reality that has forgotten what it is called for. You took an oath: to serve the nation, to care for the well-being and well-being of the citizens, and this law is to use the citizen to consolidate his authority. You've forgotten the subjectivity, and you're treating the subject to make sure you win. This is a simpler solution: write one article that Andrzej Duda is the President of Poland for life. At least you will not put the whole of Poland, all citizens of the Republic of Poland at risk. You're making these choices because you're afraid that in autumn or spring next year you're not gonna have any support and you're not gonna win the election anymore. You're making these choices because you've lost your public hearing. You are not interested in the most important things, those which today worry thousands, millions of Polish families: How to survive? How can you keep your family safe? How can I not get it? How can I get help? How are the nurses, doctors, and paramedics who are in hospitals supposed to survive? How do I save a place of work? How do I save my company? These are the most frequently asked questions. You can't see them at all. You are interested in the power exercised for the exercise of authority, not for the purpose for which the power was called. The power is to solve citizens' problems, not to multiply them. Power is to keep you safe, not put your life and health at risk. The power is to be responsible and discreet, and there is no discretion, there is no decency, and there is no responsibility--for a penny. You've lost all those qualities, all those values. You're afraid of losing your power, and you can't imagine this situation, but just because you're pinned to it, it's a purpose in itself. You don't pay attention to the opinions of experts, scientists, e.g. The Committee of Bioethics at the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences makes it clear that carrying out these elections within the prescribed time limit is morally irresponsible and legally unacceptable, the conduct and preparation of these elections will violate constitutionally protected human and citizen rights: the right to life and health and the right to vote. You do not pay attention to the letter of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, who say: and the way of direct voting and correspondence threaten the well-being of citizens, threaten health, because health is physical, mental and social well-being. You do not consider that elections should be conducted in a general way, but they will not be, because voters from outside Poland, Polish citizens living outside Poland will not be able to participate in them. This will not be an equal election, it will not be a direct election and will not be conducted in a secret vote, i.e. all the qualities that should have elections in which the President of the Republic is elected will be affected. You've lost that instinct that once led you to power, but you're used to this power being sacred to you. I would like to repeat this to you once again: life and health are sacred, life and health are sacred to the citizens of the Republic, not the date of May 10, May 17 or any other date in May that puts this life and health at risk, to the loss, to death. You forgot about it because you lost what was once worth to you. Finally, I would like to appeal to the PiS Members, not referring to the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, to the Supreme Court's ruling, but to the Supreme Court, to your conscience, not as a doctor, presidential candidate, Member or politician, but as one of the citizens of the Republic. Do you have the courage to drive blindly, the pathological one that will endanger the lives and health of our compatriots who will endanger life and health (the Bell)? On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I submit an application for rejection of the law fixing the power at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u92	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation, has the floor. Your marshal, I filed a motion in writing, just like you asked. Mr President, you have requested that the sitting be adjourned. According to Art. Paragraph 184. 3b a formal application may not be made if the application with it has already been rejected by the Sejm. I remind you that such an application was made and rejected by the Sejm. Mr Krzysztof Bosak at the same point. About the delay. Marshal, let's take this seriously. Mr Krzysztof Bosak. Please. I wanted to take the floor and make a formal motion in an important matter. I would very much like you to allow me to finish this point. Your Marshal, you're preventing me from exercising my mandate. I'm not making it impossible. Sir, please sit down. Mr. Krzysztof Bosak. What you're doing in this House is ridiculous. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u93	Mrs. Marshal! I was going to say, Prime Minister, Mr President, but everyone's gone. However, maybe it is not so important this project we are dealing with. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, who are in the Chamber listening to us through the online agenda! Dear Citizens! Poles today are not waiting to discuss details of the electoral code. Poles today are waiting for solutions to improve the quality of health care, support for workers, support for entrepreneurs, real, not for a paper, bureaucratic anti-crisis shield. Meanwhile, the ruling party, which has a majority in the House, draws us into the discussion about how to conduct elections, into a discussion about which the party is aware that Poles do not expect it. This clearly sounded from Mr Schreiber's mouth. If we must have this discussion, well, we will also refer to what you are proposing here. So, one by one, 10 things that are not true in what you propose, and in what you say. First of all, the rules don't change during the game. What you're doing is unfair, what you're doing is unfair. Secondly, it is not true that elections cannot be postponed. Literally here just before me, the Member and Minister at Prime Minister Schreiber's office misled Poles by waving the constitution. There are clear rules in the Constitution that we can use to move elections. They are right about PiS politicians, speaking in the media, and in this House, about the fact that the constitution does not give an opportunity to introduce an emergency just to move elections. Of course. But move the election, put in a state of emergency to protect the health and life of citizens? The Constitution gives this opportunity and therefore do not manipulate the state. Third case. It's not true that you have a good project. Today you lost the vote. This is the second time you've put together a project on the same case you've been working on. You're writing the law on your knees, sir. You're writing the law on your knees. The very fact that you lost the vote in the Sejm gave you extra hours when your lawyers on your knees were correcting this project, adding new things to it that weren't there before. Fourth thing. It's not true that you believe it yourself. It is not true that you believe it yourself, because we are talking to you in clouds and we know that many of your fellow Members are very afraid of the date of May 10th. Contrary to appearances in your benches, you have a lot of reasonable Members who know it's a bad idea to make choices then. Next case. You won't be able to form a committee. You know that. Already two weeks ago, the first statements were made on your part that, if necessary, you would be supplementing the committees of the Territorial Defence Army, perhaps you would rush the police to the committee to count the votes. That's a very bad thing to say. You know that, too. Here's another thing. It's not like the post office is prepared for this, though you want to make that impression. If you were prepared for this and if you were convinced that the post office was prepared to serve this process, you would not change the head of Polish Post, replacing it with the Deputy Minister of National Defence, and a trusted man of Minister Błaszczak. It's the seventh thing I want to talk about. What you're proposing will take away political rights from Poles. You talk a lot about the impossibility of an emergency. President Andrzej Duda's ministers disinformed the Poles by saying that the constitutional conditions are not met. This is not true, because it is enough that constitutional measures are not sufficient that there is a threat, and then a political decision to introduce an emergency can be made. On the other hand, you talk little or nothing about what the institution of the state of emergency in the Constitution serves. She serves to protect the rights of Poles. The absence of extraordinary elections serves to protect the political rights of Poles: to vote, to conduct an election campaign. Maybe it doesn't matter. Maybe the Poles are not waiting for us to campaign, but these are our political rights. In holding the election on 10 May, all my supporters and supporters of other opposition candidates are denied the opportunity to conduct a normal election campaign. It's the eighth thing I want to talk about. I've got 30 seconds left, so I'm gonna talk fast. You're gonna lower the President's card, whoever's elected. If you succeed and President Andrzej Duda is elected, his mandate will be challenged. People in the country and abroad will know about this. Nineth case. The designer, the person submitting the project, is you, Mr Duda, the representative of the election committee of Andrzej Duda. Is it possible to imagine a greater conflict of interest than the proposal to change the electoral law proposed by one of the candidates? One last thing. I've got five seconds left. It's a lie that we're facing great compensation in an emergency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It regulates a bill that you can change. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u94	I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Sejm Bureau is based on Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set the limit of 10 questions for clubs according to the following parity: Law and Justice - five, Civil Coalition - three, Left - one, PSL - one... And the Confederation? ...and also one question for the wheel. The list of Members who have been asked questions - we do not yet have it. We've got it. The following Members have come forward... Two, four, five Members. I'm closing the call list. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few hours ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki, here in this House, said that we expect that the summit of diseases is ahead of us, will be in May or June. What kind of way do you have to do that? I'm asking my piss buddies. You want to make an election. You want to organize elections for Poles. But what you really want to do with this code is steal elections from Poles, steal free, independent elections. This system, which you are introducing, this electoral code - I look at the rapporteur here - is nothing more than a code that allows for mass fraud of elections. Instead of helping companies, instead of helping employees, instead of helping health care, you want to help only yourself. You want to organize this election at all costs, even after the dead. When you need it, you want to set their score. That's the truth about this electoral code, and that's the truth about what you've been doing here all morning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u96	Mrs Monika Pawłowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS is wasting today at the political fair - the moment millions of Poles and Poles survived this day for fear of their health, for their lives, for their jobs, for what will happen to their company. They also don't know if their kids are gonna go to high school. You're not interested in human drama. All you care about is whether you will continue to rule, whether you will have a president - at all costs, perhaps at the cost of health and life of Poles. You're trying to convince us that elections can be held honestly, democratically. Then maybe somebody can explain to me how a wonderful way under the bill was signed by a Member herself who voted remotely from her district. [[Applause]] Tell me how It happened. So why, if everything is okay, do you exchange the President of the Polish Post for Deputy Minister of National Defence? Will the military be holding an election for us? Why, despite (the bell) the lost vote... (The Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off)
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u98	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! But above all, you Poles, because this is a crazy important day today, this is a really crucial day for our democracy. Because with a correspondence vote it's like a knife: it can be used for cutting bread, but it can also be used for killing. And today, Members who will vote in favour of this law want to kill Polish democracy. I have no doubt that this is a coup d'état. You want to carry out a coup because this vote will be one big scam. You know very well that it is technically impossible to do. So far, the largest number of people who have taken part in the correspondence vote in Poland is 40,000, and you want to print 30 million ballots and conduct this vote forcefully. Poles don't want that. There are no election boxes. You want to put these packages in a home box that no one can control. The election will make the government for itself. This change (the bell) represents a significant change in the voting conditions. You throw out the electoral code, you give a specialty, you throw out the state election committee, and you introduce a government committee. And you're throwing democracy out, and you're making a dictatorship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u100	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project really puts the electoral process into the hands of the Minister of State Assets, Mr Jack Sasin, in fact, making a flower from the State Election Commission to a goat, a dummy, one can say, an election statisticstist. Poland is thus becoming a state of emergency without a state of emergency. You violated the principle of not making any major changes to the electoral code six months before the election. This is a change of electoral law during the electoral process, it just has to end badly. Finally, by paraphrasing Winston Churchill, I want to tell you, you had a choice to postpone a term or a disgrace. You chose disgrace, and you'll have to postpone the election anyway. [[Applause]] It was you who had a time limit to choose from, you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u102	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What's going on here is a special scandal. But I also have a few sentences for your marshal. Your marshal, just because you're back to the eagle doesn't mean you can ignore him. Today you break the constitution, violate Polish laws and Polish law. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to something particularly important, something that we all need to remember. Today 37 members of the PiS signed up for this shameful project. How is that possible if these Members tell you they're in their constituency? How is it possible, for example? Mrs Violetta Porowska or Mrs Barbara Dziuk, or Mr Robert Telus, who informs that they are in their constituency today and vote remotely, signed the bill you filed in the Sejm? It's a public forgery. I demand that these signatures be secured, and I demand that they be used in the future for prosecutions that will undoubtedly await you. This is a forged bill with forged signatures, and not only do you take it on your conscience today, but you also do it on your (Ringing) responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u104	Thank you, sir. And the last Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. We'll be able to connect remotely with your envoy. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u105	Am I visible and audible? Mr President, we're listening. High Izbo! The government is trying to force the presidential elections because it realizes that this is the last moment for Law and Justice to have a chance to win any elections, not because of entrepreneurs who are about to go bankrupt, but because of Poles who are about to go bankrupt with entrepreneurs, losing their jobs. However, in response, Prime Minister Morawiecki today proposed three new taxes of the European Union, he proposed the elimination of tax havens worldwide. Don't you understand that if it goes on like this, there won't be anyone to collect these taxes from? What is needed for Poles is a tax paradise, that is, the release of Poles from bureaucracy and excessive taxes, rather than making life more difficult by organising further elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u106	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals immediately. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill at first reading. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has decided to proceed immediately to second reading. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 328 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal, I'm sorry. I hear there's a problem with the Members' login. We're gonna have to wait a little longer. We'll wait. Okay, we're waiting. Has everyone logged in yet or not? We had signals that we hadn't yet. Different clubs report log-in issues, so we're waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Still Members report - three Members report - that they cannot log in, so we will wait a moment. 457 Members voted. 225 was for, against - 230, 2 stopped. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore decided to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Your marshal, with a formal motion. Here you go, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I propose a formal adjournment at the meeting of the Sejm in order to convene the Seniors' Convention and add to the agenda a point concerning the examination of a draft resolution on the obligation of the Council of Ministers to introduce a natural disaster. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a good constitution. Just don't break it. There is a record of the possibility of a natural disaster. This provision should be used because the epidemic is also a natural disaster. It is high time to take advantage of this record and conclude the debate on correspondence choices, ordinary, telepathic, whatever. Today we need to talk about what is important for Poles and Poles, about the crisis allowance, about the increase in unemployment benefits, about saving jobs, about covering all employees with protection, about reschedule the exams. Poles and Poles are waiting today for us and you from this place to say: hold on, we can do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u108	Thank you, Member. I remind you because I don't think you've been listening...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u109	But no. We can do it at all costs. [[ringtone]] And we're gonna lead to the election after the dead. We can survive the crisis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u110	Thank you, Member. I will not put this proposal to the vote. A request for deferral, interruption, interruption has been requested twice. Under the Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not put to the vote and you should know that. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Your marshal, I've filed a formal motion as well. Members have spoken. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left. Three minutes in second reading. We volunteered, too. About what? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sorry, Mr Dariusz Joński made a formal request. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Dariusz Joński made a formal request. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal application for an adjournment and a convocation of the Senior Convention. Well, today, during the debate with Prime Minister Morawiecki, we wanted to ask a question remotely. Your marshal, I remember, promised that the system would work properly, that everything was fine, while several Members could not vote. You could have waited a few minutes, because we could have asked these questions in a few minutes after the debate. But you didn't wait. And I want to say one thing, Marshal. The fact is that you are denying us the right to participate in the debate. I have a request for you to listen to me, your marshal, because this computer system doesn't work as well as it should. I came from Łódź today because this system is not working and I wanted to ask you specific questions. If your marshal would allow it, I'd like to ask now because I was supposed to do it in the morning. And I would like to ask you questions about why you put people to death and led to a critical situation. In many hospitals - in Gdynia, Gdańsk, Sopot, Wejherów - there are no masks (the bell), no equipment, no goggles, no suits. Today I received the same information from a children's hospital in Krakow. In the case of three clinical hospitals, the Medical University of Łódź is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u112	Thank you very much, sir. I'm sorry, actually, there were these problems this morning. We're at a completely different point. I'm so sorry, sir. Formal proposal, Mr Cezary Tomczyk. Your marshal, your marshal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a very important project, a project that is extremely unconstitutional and extremely anti-state, but we are debating this project even without basic opinions on whether the project is in line with the Constitution. We also debate without the opinion of doctors, people who know about it and know whether such a vote is safe for Poles. I would like to remind you that local elections were held in Bavaria on 15 March, which you often refer to. Until that day, 7046 cases of coronavirus infection were reported in Germany, of which 1139 were in Bavaria. Prime Minister, if you could just listen for a moment. Mr President, a formal proposal, I remind you, a formal proposal. This is a recess request. Mr President, the request for a break has been made several times. During the next 10 days 6851 cases arrived. Thank you very much, sir. This is not a formal conclusion. Marshal, you don't want to hear the truth. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. This is the truth you must hear, Marshal. Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. I'm informing you that you're abusing this podium. I have informed you that formal requests for interruption have been submitted and voted several times. This is therefore not a formal conclusion. Marshal, I request a recess until the opinion is delivered. Mr President, if you wish to speak in the debate, please do so. Marshal, we are debating this bill without any legal opinion. Thank you very much. We proceed to second reading. Members have joined the floor. Marshal, we are debating without any legal opinion. Sit down, sir. Your Marshal, you are a Marshal of the Seym, not a Marshal of the PiS. Mr President, I inform you that you are abusing my patience. Please sit down. These are not formal applications. Your marshal, he has no opinions, nothing. Sit down, sir, please. Your marshal, we're debating a project we don't know has no opinions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u114	Please, Mr Boris Budka, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. There you go, three minutes, sir. Your Marshal, but I think it's time to vote for a second reading. You didn't vote for that. I'm asking for a vote. Rejection was tantamount to an immediate transition to second reading. You weren't listening. Mr Boris Budka. Your Marshal, please pass my motion. I can't. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the proposal has been tabled and voted twice. There's a request for a recess. Please present the opinion. Mr President, a formal proposal cannot be made because - I will read it to you once again - in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 3b a formal application may not be made if the application with it has already been rejected by the Sejm. Thank you, sir. It's not the same. The same. Mr Boris Budka. If you do not wish to speak, Mr... Your Marshal, this is not the same conclusion. The same. I'd like your legal opinion, Marshal. Sit down, sir. Look, Marshal, five minutes. Look at the schedule. It says five minutes at second reading. If it is, that's good. I'm sorry, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that this project be rejected in its entirety at second reading. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Let me see that motion. But what do you want me to show you? You're welcome, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Boris Budka has the floor. You're welcome, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the formal proposals are not even put to the vote by you. That's not true. What Mr Tomczyk is talking about is obvious, as the classic would say. But it's all about getting you on your knees as fast as you can toss another legal bullshit. You don't even answer any questions because decency is a trait. You're strangers. Honesty is a trait You're strangers. Some kind of sport rivalry is a trait. You're strangers. You want to keep this power at all costs. After the dead to the target - that'll be the maximum of these choices. It is a shame that a parliamentary majority can only think of itself. It is a shame that you cannot listen to the voice of all those, including yours, voters who do not want to put their health and their lives at risk. It is a shame that you are trying to lead to great embarrassment of the Polish electoral system. The post office isn't able to deliver the mail on time right now because there are no postmen, and you want to make correspondence choices? You want to have one election committee in the municipality, and one committee in Warsaw in the district? It will be a shame for all of Europe, for all of Poland. But first of all, I am surprised at President Andrzej Duda's silence. I understand that his proxy is taking the floor here because the President is so clinging to power. But what will be the legitimacy to exercise the authority of the one who will rip out this authority in a ruthless way, in a fraudulent way, and finally in a way that generations will mention, that this was only a way to keep you in power? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is obscene. This project introduces rules that will make these choices not decent to anyone. It's going to be a disgrace, but most of all it's going to be an unheard of since 1989. This project is suitable for basketball because it's desperate, clinging to power. In accordance with the Polish constitution, Prime Minister Morawiecki should ask for the introduction of a state of natural disaster. You're restricting civil rights every day, you've even banned entry into the woods, but you want to send people to mailboxes this time. The queues that will be created there will be a much greater threat than mere walks in the woods. But you're not going back on anything because you've forgotten you're part of the public. Now there's a division: you and everything else. You've stopped talking to the public because you're losing. And you've already lost that bill. Even if you somehow still win this election, that is, Mr. President, the beginning of the end. I'm sorry that this is how you end up, end up with great shame, and end up with a risk of health and life. Shame! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u116	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to read the entry of Minister Schreiber, who appeared a few minutes ago on this speaker. This is an entry from a few years ago, pretty fresh. I quote: I have explained hundreds of times: in the committee, in the media, here on Twitter or in the plenary room: correspondence voting carries a risk of counterfeiting - see: repeated elections in Austria last year - and is only allowed in 13 EU countries during the local elections. I'm the one asking, "Where is the truth?" Isn't that where Minister Schreiber is sitting right now? When it's in opposition, is it illegal to vote correspondence, and when it's in the government coalition, it's legal and it doesn't bring any danger? Ladies and gentlemen! Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Two constitutions are one-off, and what you have included in the provisions of this bill is that the Marshal of the Sejm may change the decision to order the election date, that is a mockery. This is a mockery of the constitution, this is a mockery even with logic and common sense. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 is a matter of setting a single election date and is exhausted after the original order has been issued. What about the election dates that run before election day? Report committee, register election committees, collect 1 000, then 100,000. signatures. Does this have anything to do with choices that are free, universal, equal? What about the secret election? Is the truth... I would very much like to get an answer from enlightened designers. Art. 17 of this law under sentence of imprisonment until the age of 3 prohibits the hiding of the electoral card. What happens if I don't pick up the card from my mailbox and the election deadline goes away? Does that mean I stole the election card? Does that mean I destroyed it? Will I have to report myself? Eventually, you'll know by the help of the postmen that I got this card, which means I'm facing three years of imprisonment for not getting my ballot out of my mailbox. What is presented in this project is a mockery. No implementing acts. After all, this law actually consists of delegations themselves to issue implementing acts by successive ministers, by the Minister for State Assets. You guys are legal geniuses. Where are those implementing acts? Where are the draft regulations under which we will organise the electoral process? It's a psychic. on a global scale, that instead of using laws, we make choices by means of regulation rules. What is the role of the State Election Commission? This role is brought to the role of passive observer. Today, the government will organize elections for us. How does this even apply to the long-standing tradition of elections in Poland? Where are the universal and free elections guaranteed here? Today, instead of dealing with burning issues... After all, every one of us gets mailboxes today, people call our Members' Offices, emails, text messages: they close my company, I lose my job, I have a contract, I don't get the benefits, I have to pay the bills, the kids have to get something to eat for dinner or breakfast. Today we have to talk about this, and today we are talking about some electoral fantasies, and today we are talking about how Minister Sasin will organize the elections for us. Really tell me what this is all about. Who's gonna want to go to the election today, take these cards out of the mailboxes, go somewhere, look around the neighborhoods, around the city, around the community the right election box, where we're gonna put it? We're gonna sign those votes on those ballots. What does this have to do with the basic principle of election confidentiality when I personally put my signature on it, sign with my PESEL, who I voted for? Like I said before, why don't we all send our election cards to Nowogrodzka right away. Thank you very much. They'll know what to do with them, and they'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u118	Thank you, sir. Mr Mikhal Urbaniak, the Confederation, has a voice remotely. There you go, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u119	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we have a really ridiculous situation here. As a matter of fact, we've been working since last week on whether we're going to vote in correspondence or whether we're going to vote next month on what the elections are going to look like. These are not the problems that affect Poles the most today. Of course, this is important, while Poles may have a problem with ordinary poverty in a moment and this will cause that no elections will be held properly. With regard to the bill itself, this project, which we are investigating today, I would like to ask how Minister Sasin, who is responsible according to this project for how the vote is to take place, imagines making choices for dozens of millions of people, since Poland's Post does not even manage to send packages abroad today or collect them from abroad, because this transit between countries in the case of our shipments has basically died. I find that absurd and rather unrealistic at this point. And the second thing I have big doubts about. It is about how elections are to be held in electoral committees, which are designed if in one committee in the case of a municipality up to 50,000. There may be from three to nine Commissioners. We're talking about tens of thousands of potential voters. These people will count it for at least a few days. In my opinion, it's not something that can be done in a few, even a dozen hours. As I move on, I would like to say that such a committee can count up to 45 people. I can't imagine it. I believe that these elections in purely correspondence form are impossible at the moment. The Polish Post Office may not be able to handle it. You will thus expose the Polish state to ridicule, because we will be burned not only in the international arena, but also among Poles, and Poles will certainly not forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u120	Thank you. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, regarding the rest of the time. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u121	Hello? Hello, sir. There you go. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to know just one thing: Is there such a problem in Poland that it is not allowed to enter the forest, that the car must not be washed on a non-contact car wash, that winter tires must not be changed to summer tires, or is there normal and can be considered elections? Just one thing I'd like to know. On the other hand, with regard to the entire opposition that is speaking in an incredibly demagogical way, I would like to say that I, to be honest, would rather listen to the PiS than listen to this monstrous demagogy that is pouring out of the mouth of the representatives of the Left and the Civic Coalition. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The constant repetition of the same is simply disgusting, just disgusting. Overkill, lie, and demagogue, ladies and gentlemen. We want to live in a normal country, not in a country where the PiS does what it wants with us, not in a country where the demagogy of the Left, the demagogy of the so-called. citizens make it impossible for us to follow the normal rules of functioning of the state. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I would like to draw attention to the role of his Excellency Jarosław Gowin, who first explained that he would never allow correspondence to be voted on, and then made an incredible maneuver by not explicitly agreeing with the Civic Platform or with the PiS. It is about maneuvering to make some amazing constitutional volta, even if it is acceptable, provided that it is agreed with these parties, because without it, of course, it is impossible to change the constitution. Then he makes a comedy by voting, abstaining from the vote when his party voted in favour or against, making sure that this project, God forbid, does not fall. In my opinion, this gowinism used will go into the history of Polish parliamentarianism. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Gowins come and go, and we'll stay with those choices that will, let's be clear, comedy. We don't believe PiS. We don't believe PiS is gonna make this election fair and square, which is why we're gonna vote against it. The idea itself is not idiotic, but in the case of the idea created by those people who create it, it is at least irresponsible (The Bell), let's be clear - probably criminal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u122	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unless you're convinced by the voices that were coming from that podium, I'm sure you'll find that a red light should light the words of Janusz Korwin-Mikke. If he's starting to back you up and appreciate you, you might want to ask him if you're doing the right thing. That's one thing. Secondly, the question of the security and integrity of elections. I was talking about safety in my first speech. Now about the integrity of these choices and the diligence to carry them out. If these elections are to be conducted honestly and carefully, then such changes, I am no longer talking about code rules which should not be introduced in the electoral code six months before the elections, I am not talking about 14 days of waiting from the date of submission of this draft for consideration by the High House, should not be made. I have a question for you, Marshal, whether you have consulted the Social Dialogue Council, trade union organisations and employers, whether you have consulted the State Election Commission on the possibility for the State Election Commission to implement this law. Have you asked the trade unionists, even the Polish Post, what is their opinion on this subject? These are the basic principles of social dialogue in Poland. I am not talking about civil dialogue anymore, because there was no public hearing, no debate that should be, especially with such important projects. And now about the technological and technical possibilities of making these choices. 30 million ballots are to be provided by 26,000. Postmen, if everyone is ready, able to work, will have this opportunity, because some of them can be quarantined. That means $26,000. The mailman's supposed to deliver... One postman has to deliver them to 1154 voters. These are 583 addresses. What about an address that doesn't match the address that's entered on the electoral list? Once again, I draw attention to the reporting of persons outside the territory of the Republic of Poland, citizens of the Republic of Poland, who have the same right to participate in these elections. It's a matter of regional election committees. Here the best example is Kraków, where in normal conditions 449 regional electoral committees were appointed. Now it's going to be replaced by one committee. At the time, it consisted of 4.5,000. People, now these voices are going to count 45 people. Four and a half thousand. So far, people have been counting votes, and now they are to be counted by 45 people in the municipality of Kraków. This shows that there is no chance of honesty in carrying out this process. He's just unprepared. You used to be opposed to correspondence voting, today you're calling for Bavaria. Only that in Germany correspondence elections have been held for years and the German post sends a query and electoral materials before each election. This system is prepared and tested. He was realized on an incomparable scale. After all, it was not carried out throughout the land, it covered only part of the land - in part of the land there was a second round of elections. In some cases, it ended on the first. If the process is to be carried out reliably and safely, care has not been taken. That is why I am once again proposing - this time for the rejection of the law in its entirety, a law which serves only and exclusively to consolidate power, rather than to carry out a fair electoral process, which has already been violated by the absence of an electoral campaign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u124	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In listening to this debate, we may sometimes feel like listening to similar debates in the late 1980s and early 1990s. At that time there were forces - so I look at the gathered in the Chamber, probably the President could best tell us about it - which were coming out on this platform, in the same way they started such a fight, in every case insulting anyone who had a different opinion, and they said that it could not be done, but here is unemployment, why you do not do it. In fact, all of this had only one important goal - to block any change. In fact, it was only intended to restore post-communism or install post-communism in Poland. Well, today, I have the impression that the state, when making such a heavy work as usual with regard to these changes, is acting and, unfortunately, you are doing the same thing. I am very sorry to say this because I have tried, as has the applicant, not to offend or attack anyone, but to encourage you to have a substantive discussion. It is true: we are facing a very serious crisis that caused the pandemic of Coronavirus. But it's not true what you're saying, and what you've been saying here, repeating the same lies about the choices that only our camp lives. Let me put it this way: after all, the actions that are being taken are visible. The Prime Minister spoke of them today in the Seym. I think that this week another bill will be sent to the High House, which is about to help entrepreneurs to help health services, which is supposed to help different types of groups of people who are suffering today. So one doesn't rule out the other. The Constitution hasn't stopped, life hasn't stopped. Case number two. We haven't heard so many voices all the time, which is actually going to give a monthly row about moving elections, except that you will be free for this month, and you will not participate in any work, and in no way will you make decisions. It will be a clear break, and at least a strong bend of the constitution and finally a hit on the economy that you allegedly care about. Case 3 - Constitution, 6 months before. I'll quote the article... I will not quote an article, but the words from the meeting of the Seym Committee of the President of the State Election Commission, which you often refer to, Mr Wojciech Hermelinski, who himself in the Seym, presented and encouraged changes, although it was less than 6 months before the elections, said: However, I am inclined to say that it is difficult to say about such important changes in the electoral law referred to in the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal. These are, above all, technical issues that we care about. And for this reason, what I have to say, we commend the High House and the designers that these regulations introduce - and so on. So that these words could be repeated today. But you were against correspondence at the time... No, you're completely confusing everything. I would like to encourage you to familiarize yourself with the statement of the 2019 committee meeting. And now when it comes to correspondence elections - that is also a good question and you ask them. Well, yes: if then, in December 2017, anyone asked me if I was in favour of banning or drastically restricting the possibility of leaving the Polish people, I would say that of course I am against such an idea. Just as I was then - and still remain - against the permanent inclusion of the maximum extension of this right. This is a bill that applies to these elections. We are in an emergency, so extraordinary measures are advisable. I'm surprised someone doesn't understand. Finally, the Member, I think, of the Left, spoke of an amendment to the article. 17. Let me put it this way: if this raises doubts, although in my opinion it is clear that the intention is completely different, not to punish someone for not going to the elections, but if it raises doubts, we make an amendment, one of the few that will settle it. So, just so you can see: we're ready to go hand in hand on a lot of things. With regard to the President's vote that there would be a problem with counting votes in Krakow, Mr President escaped the Rule. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 of the proposed law that, in particularly justified cases, the electoral commissioner, with a view to the efficiency and effectiveness of the committee's work (the bell), may appoint more persons as members of the municipal regional committee than referred to in paragraph 1. 5. High Izbo! To conclude, I encourage everyone to support this law in the name of concern for Poles, and tomorrow with the same vigour, you will discuss the issue of helping Poles, helping Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs, and you will not evade your work in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u126	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members has been exhausted. A formal application has been submitted. Mr Michael Szczerba. This is a motion for the resummation of vote No 39 signed by the correct number of Members in relation to... I'd say yes, moving on to the third reading... In normal mode, please put to the vote... The system didn't work, there's a correct number of Members in writing... Mr President, you know how to react, don't you? Yes, of course. Do you know? How? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And? Here's the reason in writing. I have a request for you, the Senior Convention. And in what way is this amendment? Please, a formal proposal, Mr Michael Szczerba. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u127	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal application, Art. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm: change in the way the discussion is conducted. Dear Marshal! You said there was an opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau. This opinion concerns only compliance with European Union law. But there is an opinion in the Sejm Analysis Office's resource of 20 May 2010, which states in which circumstances you can change your election order and indicate the election date. These circumstances are a state of emergency, that's for example. the state of the natural disaster. The amendment of the order of the Marshal of the Sejm is de facto a new election order. I wish you'd remember that. And one last thing. I want us all to know what's going on in social services right now. In the homes of social assistance in Drzewica in Łódź - 64 people infected, in Tomczyce - 70, Jakubowice - 40, Niedabyl - 16, Koszęcin - 17 (Dzinek), Wola, sorry, Warsaw near Bobroowiecka care and treatment plant - 19 people, 16 DPS in quarantine. You really think it's possible to make choices under these circumstances and allow these people to... Thank you very much. ...a correspondence vote? We're in an emergency, Marshal. Thank you very much, sir. I want you to share the views of the Sejm Analysis Office that are available.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u128	Thank you very much, sir. The proposal concerns a change in the vote... in the discussion. We are already after the discussion, sir, and at the moment we are just before the questions. Then we'll proceed... The discussion is closed. No, I'm sorry, just questions. Excuse me, just a few more questions. What about that resummation application? More questions, sir, let's finish this. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the basis of every democracy is free elections. And you want to make an election with a gun to your head. You blackmail Poles that if they don't go during the epidemic, when they threaten to live for elections, your world will collapse. Your - yes, your PiS world could collapse. But people want peace above all, they want work and democracy must be a holiday, not a pathetic wake you want to have on many people's graves. Really, people are afraid for their lives, people are losing their jobs, they don't know if they're gonna get paid in May, and you say, "Go to the election because we want the money... Then make an election in two years, sir. ...because we want to keep our job. This is an outrage. Really, how dictatorship behaves, and you're gonna be responsible for it. All dictators count on them to be unpunished. Every dictator doesn't think he's involved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But somebody's gonna settle you, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u130	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Lewis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a lot of questions, so let's get to the point. First of all, to the Minister. In fact, do you call it a minor technical issue, not a major change in the rules of election, in order to allow your marshals to change their election dates during the election campaign? Secondly, in which, I apologize, you intend to amend the Article. 17, now that we're investigating this bill? And what is the declaration that this will not be found if... after this discussion and after the conclusions of Mr Smish? You wrote a bill on your knees, and now you're gonna correct it without any mode? Why does this act contain a curiasal statement that the Minister for State Assets will de facto become the State Election Commission? Why should the PiS-Polish Minister Sasin decide the shape and form of the electoral card, but also what will be included in the voting package, if there will be a leaflet by Andrzej Duda? Why do you want to force Poles to vote under prison sentence? Because I do not believe in your declarations that you will find a way to withdraw this amendment. Why can't you see the risk that a violent husband can vote for his wife, grandmother for his grandfather, aunt for his uncle? Thank you very much, Member. And finally, why are you afraid of the constitution and the state of the natural disaster? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u132	Thank you, Member. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! So far, the elections in Poland have been held by the State Election Commission. It was a guarantee of the independence and freedom of these elections. What system does the PiS propose? Marshal Witek of the PiS will set a date that fits PiS according to provisions that are not in accordance with the Constitution. The Deputy Prime Minister of PiS will prepare the election packages. What will be in these packages is only Minister Sasin knows. Former Deputy Minister of PiS, Mr Błaszczak's closest associate, will pick up election packages from Poles. Well, maybe from some Poles, because whether from everyone, we have serious doubts. And finally, the committee set up by the PiS will count these votes. It's all clear. The party organizes elections, the party organizes the results of these elections. It's nothing more than an election fraud system. This is nothing more than an attempt to kill democracy in Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u134	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am ashamed that today, as the Sejm, we are debating a proposal for changes in the electoral order. I am ashamed of Poles and Poles who face further challenges every day, who are now losing their jobs or having to liquidate their business, who are losing their livelihoods. I'm ashamed of the health workers who risk their lives fighting the epidemic on the front line. I am ashamed that we are not dealing with solving problems of Poles and Poles who touch them here and now. Instead, we deal with the selfish interests of one party and one candidate - the party and the candidate, who, as you can see, have human health and life for nothing, have the health and life of voters and voters, post workers, employees of election committees for nothing. To these elections, without looking at the safety of Poles and Poles, without looking at the will of the Sejm expressed in the vote at hours. 13. That is why I wanted to ask you: How are you going to protect the staff of the post office, the staff of the electoral committees, the voters and the electoral staff against the infection of the coronavirus and prevent it from moving on? What measures will be taken on this issue? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u136	Thank you very much, Member. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The creators of this bill, explain to me, have you already installed these special boxes that the Minister is to take care of and formulate the requirements that the transmission box should meet? And above that, it says it's gonna be some kind of special mailbox. So I understand that this is some kind of an ordorado for at least one of the voters, the one who's going to carry out this installation. And the big question is: To what address, I understand - from tomorrow, do you send these electoral packages to our countrymen, Poles abroad? What's the address? True, you don't know these addresses, and the mail won't tell. This is a very, very serious gesture (the bell) of ignoring our compatriots, who are often more interested in Polish than we are in the world. Here, in place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u138	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, PSL-Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The well-established case law of the Constitutional Tribunal - and in its three judgments - clearly states that significant changes from the point of view of electoral law must not be carried out six months before the election deadline. I have this test for Members of the Law and Justice. In this regard, make a request to the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal. Because I think you're the only ones who believe or pretend to believe that this institution has constitutional qualities. It's going to be funny how these judges are going to try to prove that they're not significant changes, but they only affect 30 million people. Donald Trump, asked if he was in favour of the correspondence election, answered: No (The bell) because I believe that many people cheat in the correspondence vote. That's what you thought in 2016. By 2020, you think completely different. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u140	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill immediately. Ladies and gentlemen... I'm sorry. As it was reported during the second reading... I'm checking in because you're... In a minute, I see it, I remember. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was submitted to the bill, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading of the bill after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, a request from the Civic Coalition to resume vote No 39. In accordance with Resolution No 42 of the Bureau of the Sejm, the authority empowered to assess whether the outcome of the vote in plenary of the Sejm raises reasonable doubts, which may result in the vote being resummated, is the Marshal of the Sejm. The assessment of this Marshal of the Sejm shall be made after consulting the Senior Convention. That's why I'm announcing a five-minute recess, and I'd like you to... Can I justify it? Can I justify it? No. But, sir... No. He's got a motion for resummation, and I've got him right in front of me. But your marshal, after all, the public may know... Just a minute. There you go. You have a minute to justify your request. Your marshal, the dove, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u141	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Three Members report that in vote no. 39 the system counted their votes differently than they did. A similar situation took place earlier with other votes. We've called it in multiple times. I think you've seen the dangers of this system today. So it's clear to me that your marshal should submit this request... It should re-vote because there is a legitimate concern that the outcome of this vote deviates from the will of the High House. Once again, three Members voted differently, their statements are appropriate. They vote in a remote system, unfortunately the system voted differently. There are their statements, Your Marshal, so I'd ask you to vote 39 again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-06-sejm-09-3.u142	Thank you, sir. As amendments have been tabled and this proposal has been tabled, I am about to call the Seniors' Convention in the Lower Smoking Room in the Sejm. At this time, the amendments will be delivered to you. In that case, I'm declaring a time-out. 9:30. I invite the Senior Convention to the bottom smoking shop. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 06 hours 21 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to move to the second reading of the bill. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Before proceeding with the third reading, ladies and gentlemen, an explanation of the request received by the Civic Coalition for the resummation of vote No 39. Let me remind you that vote 39 concerned the rejection of the project at first reading. I would like to say to you that, first of all, as regards the Civil Coalition, 134 Members voted for the 134 Members, 49 Members voted for the Left for the 49 Members, 30 Members voted for the PSL-Kukiz15 for the 30 Members, 11 Members voted for the Confederation, and 1 Member for the non-attached Member voted for the Law and Justice, 232 for the 235 Members voted for the 232 Members, i.e. there were 3 Members for the Law and Justice. Members of the Civic Coalition voted. Apparently, one of your fellow Members was wrong in the vote because there is no way that the system could have counted the vote that was so, to vote on it or vice versa. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, a request from Mr Law and Justice came in this morning, stating that his vote on the draft bill that we were investigating this morning was not included. That was Mr Andrzej Kryj's request. I asked the club not to submit a request for a vote because I checked and it turned out that the Member had taken part in the vote and had sufficient time. Maybe he didn't press the send button. And time's up. It's even calculated in seconds. I didn't accept this resummation request either. Therefore, in accordance with the resolution that I read to you earlier, after convening the Seniors Convention, I do not accept this proposal. We're coming, ladies and gentlemen, to the third reading. In the first place, I will submit a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety. And one more thing. At the Convention meeting we also talked about, as well as during the vote, that we should wait a little longer, because the signal to your Members sometimes goes quite long and when we are already at: who has abstained, some Members just see the beginning. I will therefore be free to read and we will also receive a message from the secretariat, whether Members are logged in and how many Members are voting. I therefore put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the draft law contained in print no 328 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please end this discussion. I ask that these discussions be concluded - both sides, please. 459 Members voted. 227 for, 230 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 15. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I suggest you hold your hand longer, because there's a signal that really goes a little longer. 458 Members voted. 242 - for, 184 - against, 32 stopped. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 20. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to press the button. Is this yours? Yes. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 174 was for, 280 against, 4 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 328, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 230 was for, 226 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. Disgraceful! This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 6 April this year. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 7 April 2020 at 3 p.m. 15. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 03]]
